1929 or 1989 ?
paris – as the economic crisis deepens and spread , the entire world has been looking for a similar outcome in history to help us understand what is happening .
in the first place , many people likened the crisis to 1982 or 1973 , as it would have been , given that both episodes mean a typical cyclical recession .
today ’ s mood is too high , and many people are beginning to see the crisis in 1929 and 1931 , even if some governments seem to be showing the same recession as they do in 1929 and 1931 .
the current trend is either excessive restraint ( europe ) or an extension of efforts ( the us ) .
europe has become cautious in avoiding debt and defending the euro , and the us has already acted in many ways to take advantage of this ideal moment to implement much-needed structural reforms .
but , as a purely strategic scientist , the year of 1989 , both politically and economically , is 1989 .
of course , the collapse of lehman brothers had nothing to do with the fall of the berlin wall .
in fact , the two seem to be entirely the opposite : a fall in the fall of the berlin wall , a symbol of repression and artificial fragmentation , and the collapse of a seemingly indestructible financial capitalism .
but , as in 1989 , it may well be seen as a transformative change in 2008-2009 , with the sobering consequences that will still enable us to feel .
what happened in 2009 may have threatened the positive results of the 1989 revolution , including the peaceful reunification of europe and the triumph of democracy over nationalist tendencies , if not xenophobic tendencies .
in 1989 , liberal democracy triumphed over the socialist ideology fostered and promoted by the soviet bloc .
for many of the supporters of president ronald reagan , the escalation of the arms race was an escalating arms race , pushing the soviet economy to the brink of collapse , fully revealing the superiority of liberal societies and free markets .
of course , the situation is strikingly different now .
first , perhaps the most important , the 1989 revolution and the subsequent collapse of the soviet union ended global bipolarity .
by contrast , 2009 is likely to pave the way for a new form of bipolarity , only china replaced the soviet union .
second , democratic institutions and market capitalism may be more vulnerable than expected , as the winners were .
and in 2009 , as the global crisis spread , it is difficult to distinguish between winners and losers ; everyone seemed to lose , even if some countries were more affected than others .
the history of history is unfair , though the united states is more responsible for today ’ s global crisis than in most countries .
the us will be better off , but it is not the only country that can recover .
as a visiting professor at harvard and mit , i would like to see what a post-crisis world looks like .
we can feel that a world dominated by the us and asia is emerging .
from the media lab of a first-class mit lab to mathematics and 经济系 in harvard university , asians - especially china and indians – are everywhere , like those who have learned from athens in the century to the end of athens .
but , before the emergence of this new order , the world may face a broader muddle , if not utter chaos .
for example , what happens to egypt , an important and fragile country , for which hundreds of thousands of egyptians have been forced to return to their homes in the gulf , but now in the gulf , but what happens to egypt ?
when the rich are less rich , the poor are poorer .
and , with the foreign workers who are pursuing the “ european dream , ” they now face the potential of the xenophobic mentality that should be open to european countries , and what happens ?
the results of the 1989 revolution , which did not include many observers , have been considered less enduring .
we can only hope that the crisis in 2009 was as dramatic as we have seen in the way that we are now in our intuition and history .
a hundred years of servitude
berlin – the global financial and economic crisis that erupted in 2008 was the most severe economic stress test since the great depression , and the most serious challenge to social and political institutions since world war ii .
not only does it threaten financial markets and currencies ; it also exposed serious regulatory and governance shortcomings that have not been fully addressed .
indeed , the 2008 crisis will most likely be viewed as a watershed , but not because it led to reforms that strengthen economic resilience and eliminate economic vulnerabilities .
instead , leaders failed to learn from the lessons of the great depression , let alone a preventive response that could trigger a new set of economic and other crises for decades to come .
a century later , a century later , historians are likely to despair about our shortsightedness .
they will see the analysts and regulators , by strengthening the regulatory regime , focusing narrowly on repairing the financial system .
though this goal is not worthless , it is not the only thing that historians have pointed out , as historians have pointed out .
to address the challenges posed by globalization and technological progress in ways that ensure sustainable and balanced growth , governance institutions and institutions in both the domestic and international governance must be upgraded .
but this is not enough .
making matters worse , because part of the financial system will bring further globalization , these measures will eventually exacerbate existing problems , because the move has increased pressure not only on financial , but also in other economic and technological sectors , to impose regulatory and regulatory frameworks .
moreover , massive financial investments focused on higher returns on return are likely to drive technological innovation , further increasing pressure on financial and other regulatory systems .
major technological innovations , fueled by cheap money , can make market change so fast that policy and institutional change can not be adapted .
at the same time , the emergence of new markets could yield huge returns for early adopters or investors , and can continue to benefit from the leading domestic and international regulatory institutions .
this is precisely what happened before the 2008 crisis .
new technology-enabled financial instruments create opportunities for some to earn large profits .
but regulators can not keep pace with innovation , and eventually create the risks that affect the entire economy .
this reflects the fundamental difference between the global crisis of the twenty-first century and the great depression of the 1930 ’ s or the great depression of the past .
the financial sector ’ s continued growth has led to more participation in the short term , from inadequate short-term regulation and weak governance , making it harder to prevent current crises .
complicating matters further , the system affected by the current crisis extends far beyond the purview of any regulatory body .
this has caused the crisis to become even more dangerous and makes it harder to predict the consequences of the crisis – including the long-term consequences of social and political areas .
the next crisis – increasing the likelihood that nationalist sentiment is becoming more likely and overlooked – may involve finance , but it may also involve areas like migration , trade , cyberspace , pollution , and climate change .
in all of these areas , both domestic and international governance institutions are weak or covered by weak or 覆盖 actors , including independent actors such as transparency and accountability .
this is not only making it harder to prevent crises – especially because it provides opportunities for participants to escape and shirk responsibility – and it is increasingly difficult to take steps to address the crisis .
the 2008 crisis exposed how weak we are in the face of disasters , especially because the main causes of the disaster are decentralized governance .
to be sure , humans have made some progress in preparing and managing crises , as the 2018 school of governance report shows .
but we must beware of development – from finance to digital technologies to climate change – to hedge the governance of domestic and international institutions .
we should be in the midst of a crisis in all of these areas , and the emergency plan to develop a crisis , while adopting stronger measures such as debt levels to reduce risk , with debt levels in advanced economies far higher today than they were before the 2008 crisis .
moreover , we should ensure that the regulatory responsibilities and resources that empower international institutions are needed .
by punishing those who exacerbate risks for their own interests , we can strengthen the legitimacy of global governance and its institutions .
for now , inadequate cross-border coordination and international agreements are a major obstacle to crisis prevention and management .
but the world ’ s 兴起 model of national sovereignty is being reinvigorated not only by the problem , but also by a variety of crises .
unless we change course soon , the world will have enough reason for the world to despise us .
where is 2008 ?
berkeley – to solve the problem , it is not enough to know what is done .
one must actually implement solutions – and , as it turns out you know , will be willing to change course .
this is the message of two new books , which tells you what you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused the financial crisis to prevent it from recurring , and why not yet .
the first book is the change of change and shocks , the authors of conservative english journalist martin wolf .
for starters , he argues that the wealth of the richest 0.1 % of the world ’ s richest and 0.01 % , which has created mounting pressure on people , governments , and companies to become increasingly unsustainable .
as a result , market regulation is relaxed , making it easier for assets to be considered safe but not safe .
as a result , systemic risk has proliferated , and more than the most daring of central bankers .
untested and ultimately false assumptions created a policymaking environment that can only be described as hubris .
officials underestimated tail risks .
they set inflation targeting around 2 % – meaning that they have little room for maneuver when the water got choppy .
and , most audaciously of all , the eu introduced the euro as a common currency .
indeed , policymaking in the direction of the wrong direction lasted long after the crisis began .
politicians ’ response to deteriorating economic conditions is a strong antidote to the wrong medicine , and they have nothing to do with the worst economic disaster since the great depression .
wolf ’ s prescription for countering the crisis is simple , smart , and unassailable .
in the short term , he has proposed that countries with reserve currencies increase spending ( especially public-sector investment ) , issuing more debt .
these countries ’ central banks , he argued , should raise inflation targets to 3 % or even 4 % per year .
in the medium term , wolf argues that countries need to implement regulatory measures to reduce debt levels and prevent excessive debt .
the eurozone must also address its internal contradictions , either by disbanding the eurozone or by introducing “ institutional and policy portfolios ” that enable monetary union to function normally .
wolf ’ s long-term solution includes containing inequality , “ more globalized regulation , ” and more “ individual countries ’ own decisions to determine the ways of the game , ” and that the free-market ideology has left us in crisis .
but , while wolf ’ s proposal is worth the recommendations , there is little .
the reason can be found in the second book : hall of 镜厅 , my friend , teacher , and “ boss ” barry eichengreen .
according to eichengreen , we have responded to tepid responses to the crisis , which goes back to the triumph of economists of the keynesian and minskyite colleagues of milton friedman – at least in explaining the causes and consequences of the great depression .
when the 2008 financial crisis erupted , policymakers tried to use friedman ’ s proposed great depression proposals .
unfortunately , it turns out to be wrong , as the monetarist interpretation of the great depression was wrong in many ways , and incomplete .
the resulting policies would be enough to prevent the post-2008 recession from turning into outright depression ; but the price of this partial success is huge , and that it has made it difficult for politicians to declare that the crisis has been overcome , and that it is focused on structural reforms .
the result is economic stagnation now , characterized by anemic growth and possible new normal .
the loss of 10 % of potential wealth in the us and europe , without strengthening financial-sector regulation , has given the world a new major crisis .
wolf and eichengreen would argue that the main flaw that led to the 2008 financial crisis – and that continues to undermine our inadequate response to the crisis – is intellectual intelligence .
indeed , the only real lesson of the crisis so far is that its lessons have never been taken seriously .
a comeback strategy for europe
马德里 – last november , pope francis likened the eu to his grandmother ’ s european parliament – benign and 和蔼 , but no longer the vitality and energy of the past .
as francis put it , the eu ’ s leaders must escape their 懈怠 image , recognize the strategic challenges that europe faces , and build a clear policy toward the challenge .
to be sure , the pope ’ s characterization is very accurate in some respects .
but , while europe seems lassitude , it retains considerable strengths .
but the world is changing : the asia-pacific region is increasingly shaping the global economy and other developments .
the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , established by the united states and 11 other countries , is likely to accelerate this change ( if china eventually will join ) .
though the tpp ’ s distance from the final deal will require a wide range of hurdles , its potential to expand asia ’ s economic power will not be allowed to remain .
europe must work to ensure its position in a new world order – first to strengthen its own trade and investment ties with the us .
as the tpp negotiations continue to advance , the eu-us transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) will be constrained by domestic contradictions , and the entire project is likely to die .
business leaders on both sides of the atlantic believe that a successful ttip agreement would bring enormous economic benefits – a perception that many studies have reinforced .
but some subtle problems – such as “ chicken with chicken ” ( “ chicken with chickens ” ) and disputes over investors ’ settlement settlement – still dominate debate .
the ttip ’ s goal is to release the transatlantic economy – which is still the world ’ s largest market , accounting for three-quarters of global financial activity and more than half of world trade .
( if the ttip is open to other economies , such as turkey , mexico , and canada , the benefits will be higher . )
but , more than the benefits of reaching a deal , the success of the negotiations could be devastating .
first , the breakdown of the ttip negotiations would significantly strengthen the uk ’ s advocacy of the eu ’ s campaign ; conversely , if the ttip is implemented , it would not be wise , so it will not happen .
moreover , europe ’ s internal squabbles have left it a strategic opportunity to waste a strategic opportunity that could prompt the us to accelerate its departure from europe .
and russian president vladimir putin is bound to view europe ’ s failures as an opportunity to influence more of europe .
all of this highlights a fundamental new strategic risk : if the ttip fails to make progress or fail , progress on the tpp will be made , and the global balance will move toward asia – most likely to be unable to revive its economic and geopolitical influence .
when the ttip first proposed , europe seemed to recognize its value .
indeed , the united states , which has been pushing for europe ’ s initial commitment to europe , launched the process of negotiations in june 2013 .
at the time , the intention was to complete the negotiations .
no one wants to postpone the talks long – or endure the political pain that it brings .
but eu leaders effectively abandoned the project , and that , too , confirms america ’ s concerns .
trade negotiations are struggling to move ahead , while anti-globalization groups control public opinion , portraying the ttip as a threat to everything – from european democracy to europe ’ s health .
this is a dangerous false statement , and eu leaders must make a strategic case to advance the ttip , thereby preventing this statement from gaining greater market .
they must also revive the promise of successful negotiations in 2015 .
this is not to say that addressing the ttip negotiations will be easy .
but a trade agreement , especially the trade agreements that contain so many regulatory problems , is never easy , because it must account for the complexity and 易变性 of modern economies .
indeed , completing the challenges contained in the ttip is no more intractable than the challenges that eu leaders have faced during the last few years .
the ttip negotiations will be revived next month , when eu leaders must push for genuine progress and aim at the end of the year .
the good news is that the recent midterm elections in the united states are likely to increase their chances of success .
us president barack obama is now likely to get the so-called fast-track negotiating mandate from congress .
if so , the us congress will approve or reject a negotiated agreement , rather than on the shelf .
that is why europe ’ s leaders have no time to waste .
they must seize economic opportunities – and avoid strategic disaster .
a year of ending the age of epoch ?
madrid – as 2016 begins , the outlook for 2017 is uncertain .
tensions in the middle east are intensifying , and populist movements in europe and the us are populist .
the tragic conflict between syria ’ s tragic conflict in syria and the tragic conflict in the middle east will continue , owing to fundamental disagreements over the role of syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s future in the peace process or political transition .
moreover , in the past week , syrian government forces , backed by russian and iranian support , have regained almost entire aleppo – the largest city in syria – and now totally destroy the war .
the world ’ s top priority must be to achieve peace in syria with close regional and international cooperation .
on december 27 , iran , russia , and turkey will hold a tripartite meeting in moscow to discuss political solutions .
if that meeting were to be met , it could be overshadowed by the shadow of russia ’ s ambassador to turkey .
what is most surprising is that russia , iran , turkey , and turkey , not the united states and the european union , participate in agreements like the negotiations .
this year ’ s positive progress came in march , when the eu and turkey negotiated agreement on the refugee crisis .
from this conflict to now , turkey has taken about three million syrian refugees .
although the eu ’ s relationship with turkey is not at historic highs , both sides must continue to talk in 2017 , not least because they have many shared interests , such as economic interdependence , refugee crises , and collective struggle for terrorism .
moreover , the brexit negotiations will affect european politics next year .
the united kingdom or will launch article 50 of the lisbon treaty in march , triggering a formal process of withdrawal from the eu .
the challenge is to reach agreement on ensuring the health of the future uk-eu relationship .
doing so will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already developed only 18 months .
while uncertainty remains uncertain , one thing is clear : if the uk is to retain its right to retain access to market access , it must accept the eu ’ s four freedoms , including labor mobility .
there are several european countries that will hold elections in 2017 , and isolationist , anti-european populist movements , or will be strong in the interim .
for the eu , the loss of a country that is economically important and economically important is undoubtedly a blow ; but the founding member states , such as france , or a founding member , would be tragic .
fortunately , many europeans ’ perception of the eu is in fact a sign of improvement after the brexit referendum .
but this does not mean that eu governments are facing less challenges in the year ahead .
they must reunite the societies divided by strong global forces such as globalization and rapid technological innovation .
the brexit referendum , followed by donald trump ’ s victory in the us presidential election , marked the rise of populism in the west .
but now that trump is filling his cabinet with oligarchs and former military personnel , there is reason to question whether he will fulfill his promise to govern “ establishment ” in washington .
trump ’ s incoming cabinet is full of unknowns , but there is no doubt that his rejection of multilateral institutions will endanger efforts to address the world ’ s most serious problems .
this poses a threat to us-eu relations .
in the last few years , the paris climate agreement and the nuclear deal with iran have reached the dawn of a world free from multilateralism .
now more than ever , a dialogue between the major powers is needed .
and trump ’ s statements about whether the us will continue to insist on a “ china ” policy will most likely severely damage relations between the world ’ s two largest economies .
likewise , while the trump team has some somewhat pro-russia tendencies , the us and russia have no strategic trust in relations with russia , owing to russian military incursions into syria , eastern ukraine , and the united states .
the case for europe is particularly important for years .
with respect to democracy , freedom , and human rights , relations between the eu and the us must remain solid .
after volatile 2016 , there was little positive news in 2017 , and 2017 is set to challenge and uncertainty .
but the biggest uncertainty is the end of 2016 , or the end of the geopolitical era .
another year of slow global growth
washington , dc – last april , the international monetary fund predicted that the world economy will grow by 3.5 % in 2015 .
in the ensuing months , this forecast was gradually lowered , to 3.1 % in october .
but the imf continues to insist that it has , in the last seven years , had little semblance of predictability – and will be better next year .
but almost certainly , the imf is wrong .
first , the world ’ s trade grew at an annual rate of barely 2 % , compared to 8 % from 2003 to 2007 .
trade growth has been much higher in recent years than world gdp ( an average rate of 4.5 % ) , but recent trade and gdp growth is roughly equal .
even if gdp growth exceeds that of trade this year , it could not be more than 2.7 % .
the question is why .
according to christina and david romer of the university of california , berkeley , the aftershocks of the modern financial crisis have lasted only over 2-3 years .
harvard economist carmen reinhart and kenneth rogoff say that a country needs five years to emerge from the financial crisis .
and , indeed , the financial turmoil of 2007-2008 has largely disappeared .
so what accounts for the sluggish economic recovery ?
one popular explanation is the fuzzy notion of “ secular stagnation ” – a long-term decline in demand for goods and services that undermined investment and hiring incentives .
but demand will continue to slow only when people are confident about the future .
the only logical explanation for this lack of confidence is logical , just as northwestern university ’ s robert gordon has painstakingly documented and argued that productivity growth is slow .
before the crisis , especially in 2003 , slow productivity growth was obscured by an illusion that much of the world was thriving .
in some countries – especially the united states , spain , and ireland – rising profits , speculative construction , and financial risk-taking reinforce each other .
at the same time , countries are amplifying each other ’ s growth through trade .
at the heart of this global boom is china , where the rising behemoths export cheap exports to the world , containing global inflation .
equally important , china imports huge amounts of commodities , thereby boosting many african and latin american economies ; it also bought large quantities of german cars and machines , enabling europe ’ s largest economy to sustain its regional supply chains .
this dynamic reversed in march 2008 , when the us rescued its fifth-largest investment bank , bear stearns , from bankruptcy .
in a boom years , world trade spread , and world trade is spreading .
as countries ’ gdp growth slows , imports are slowing , and the growth of trading partners slowed .
the us economy began out of recession in the second half of 2009 , largely owing to aggressive monetary policies and measures undertaken by the financial system .
instead , european policymakers rejected monetary stimulus and implemented fiscal austerity , ignoring the intensified bank pressure .
the eurozone thus dragged the world into a second global recession .
and the emerging economies began to collapse , as the recession seemed to be on track .
for years , observers have been touting these countries ’ leaders how to implement reforms and growth-enhancing reforms .
in october 2012 , the imf praised emerging economies ’ “ resilience . ”
at this point , the dream of 撑不住 has exposed an uncomfortable truth : high commodity prices and factors such as large-scale capital inflows masked severe economic weaknesses , as well as rampant inequality and rampant corruption .
today , these problems are compounded by the global trade ’ s pillars – china ’ s growth slowdown .
the worst is yet to come .
china ’ s massive industrial overcapacity and real-estate excesses have yet to digest ; the hubris driving its global acquisitions must be contained ; and its corrupt networks must be broken .
in short , the factors holding back the global economy in 2015 will continue to persist in the new year – and even intensify .
emerging economies will remain weak .
a temporary 欧元区 of austerity would be constrained by weak global trade .
higher interest rates on corporate bonds portend slower us growth .
the collapse of chinese assets could trigger financial instability .
and policymakers are adrift , without political means to contain these trends .
instead of updating growth forecasts , the imf should issue warnings : the global economy will continue to remain weak and fragile , unless world leaders focus on stimulating innovation and growth .
such measures should have been implemented long ago .
trumpian uncertainty
new york – every january , i will try to predict a forecast for the next year .
economic forecasts are extremely difficult to do ; harry truman , who had asked him to ask him for a 独臂 economist , was unable to say , “ on the other side , ” my prediction was sound .
in recent years , i have been right to predict that the recovery from the great recession of 2008 will be slow , without stronger fiscal stimulus ( as in europe or in the us ) .
at the same time , my forecasts rely more on analysis of basic economic forces than on complex econometric models .
in early 2016 , for example , it was clear that a shortage of global aggregate demand in the last few years will be unlikely to change dramatically .
so i believe that forecasters who believe that strong recovery will be robust are too optimistic , and that actual economic development is consistent with my projections .
the same is true of political events in 2016 .
i have been arguing for years that unless the growing inequality problem in many countries around the world ( especially in the united states ) is addressed , some political consequences are inevitable .
a study by anne case and angus deaton shows that life expectancy in most of the us is declining , including the anger of angry residents of the so-called northern rust belt .
and , because the income growth of 90 % of those at the bottom of the population has stagnated for almost one-third of the last century ( a large proportion of which has declined ) , data on health data clearly confirm the conditions for most of the us .
but the us may be at such a trend , and it will be better elsewhere .
but if that seems certain to herald some political consequences , its forms and timing are less obvious .
why is america ’ s downside in the economic recovery , not earlier ?
why does this manifest itself for the right ?
after all , the republicans ’ refusal to bail out those who have been driven by globalization is the republicans ’ rejection of medicaid in 26 states , thereby refusing to provide health insurance to those at the bottom .
why is a person who relies on the cheap to earn a living , openly acknowledging that it does not pay a fair share of taxes , and that people who pay taxes on tax avoidance are the ultimate winner ?
donald trump grasped the spirit of the zeitgeist : many voters would have changed the point .
but now they will realize the truth : there is no longer normal , but there is no more uncertainty .
what policies trump will pursue remains unknown , let alone which policies will succeed or the consequences will be .
trump seems hell-bent on launching a trade war .
so how will china and mexico respond ?
trump knows that his proposal would violate wto rules , but he estimates that the world trade organization needs a long time to overthrow it .
by that point , america ’ s trade account could be rebalanced .
but the game is twofold : china can adopt a similar but subtler operation .
so what will happen if a trade war erupts ?
trump may feel that he could win ; after all , china ’ s reliance on exports to the us is stronger than america ’ s exports to the us .
but trade wars are not a zero-sum game , and the us will lose .
china ’ s retaliation may be more targeted , enough to bring serious political pressure on the us .
the chinese may respond to the crisis that the other has imposed on the other .
who is to be expected to be more productive : the united states , where the average citizen has long struggled ?
or , even in difficult times , can china achieve more than 6 % growth ?
more generally , the republicans ’ agenda – tax cuts even more favorable to the rich than the standard republican proposals – implies that these policies are based on trickle-down exuberance , which has been earned by the rich to spend more on consumption , and the continuation of supply-side economics .
惹火 rhetoric or misses the line on twitter at least for some time to appease those who were left behind by the reagan revolution .
but how long will it be ?
what ’ s going on ?
trump may like to overturn the laws of economics , because he is happy to pursue his voodoo economics , but that is unlikely .
and , as the us , the world ’ s largest economy , entered into uncharted waters in the year and months ahead , it is unwise to say that any human prediction is unwise : almost surely , it would have been foolhardy , and many – if not most – predictions that experts will sink the 航船 .
five years after the attacks in new york and the pentagon in washington , “ 9/11 ” is no longer just a date .
it has been remembered as a starting point for change or a new era of time .
terrorist bombings in madrid and london , as well as elsewhere , will be remembered ; but , just as “ 9/11 ” has become a catchphrase .
but was it really a war of september 11 , 2001 ?
not everyone agrees on this american view .
when irish terrorism is rampant in the united kingdom , successive british governments are struggling to concede to the irish republican party that they are engaged in a war .
“ war ” would mean accepting the terrorists as legitimate enemies , with the meaning of a bloody war with a sense of belonging to an accepted war .
this is neither the right description of acts of terrorism nor the useful word . terrorists should be more accurately called criminals .
but , by calling it a war , and targeting al qaeda and its leaders , osama bin laden , the us government provides some reason for domestic change , which was not accepted by any liberal state until 9/11 .
most of these changes are embodied in the so-called “ usa patriot act . ”
although some changes involve only administrative rules , the patriot act ’ s overall effect has been to erode the liberal pillar of liberty , such as habeas corpus , the right to seek relief from an independent court , regardless of state .
for a long time , the prison camp at guantánamo bay in cuba became a symbol of unheard , namely the arrest of the “ illegal combatants ” who were deprived of all human rights .
today , the world is unsure about how many more people are suffering from inhuman people .
for everyone else , it seems like announcing a state of emergency , allowing the state to intervene in basic civil rights .
border inspections has become an ordeal for many , and police prosecutions have brought a burden on many .
a climate of fear has enabled anyone who looks suspiciously or suspicious , especially muslim life difficulties .
when such restrictions are adopted , they have not faced public opposition .
on the contrary , in general , critics , not supporters , found themselves in trouble .
in the united kingdom , prime minister tony blair supported the us attitude , introducing a similar approach , and even proposed a new theory .
blair first advocated security as the first .
in other words , freedom is not an individual ’ s right to determine their lives , but the right to restrict individual freedoms in the name of security , and only states can determine what security means .
this is the beginning of a new authoritarianism .
this problem exists in all countries that are threatened by terrorist threats , though in many countries it has become very specific .
in most continental european countries , 9/11 has become an american day .
even the debate , and indeed the evidence , is that participation in the “ war on terror ” has actually increased the threat of terrorist action .
germans certainly use this argument to stay out of the action .
this stance , however , is not preventing the spread of what has been said in germany .
a diffuse anxiety is widening .
people feel uneasy , especially when traveling .
that way , 9/11 has meant a dramatic shock or indirect shock , in psychological and emotional terms .
while fighting terrorism in the name of democracy , it is in fact a struggle against democracy , owing to official legislative and popular concerns .
one of the worrying features of 9/11 is that it is hard to see their purpose in addition to the perpetrators ’ hatred of the west and its way of life .
but the west ’ s main feature , the democratic and the rule of law , has been severely damaged by the defenders of democracy and the rule of law .
most important , two steps will need to be taken to restore confidence in liberal confidence in the major countries affected by 9/11 .
first , we must ensure that legislation related to the challenge of terrorism is strictly timely .
some of today ’ s restrictions on habeas corpus and civil liberties contain sunset clauses that limit their validity . all of these regulations should be reviewed regularly .
second , and more importantly , our leaders should seek to calm , rather than exploit , public anxiety .
the terrorists who now “ fight ” can not win , because their dark views will never win broad public legitimacy .
that is why democrats should take , first and foremost , to defend their values .
september 11 , 2017
new york – ten years ago , 19 terrorists abducted a civilian airliner against civilian aircraft , two of which hit the world trade center , and crashed under the pentagon ’ s rebellion , and crashed against the 乘客 in pennsylvania .
just a few hours , more than 3,000 innocent civilians have been killed suddenly , mostly americans , but others from 115 others .
in september 11 , 2001 , any standard was a terrible tragedy , but it was not a historical turning point .
it did not open a new era of international relations with global terrorism , and a similar mass terrorist attack has not become routine .
while bets on the “ global war on terror ” have been met , the most important progress in the last decade is innovation and diffusion of information technology , globalization , iraq and the war in afghanistan , and political instability in the middle east .
the key to the future will be america ’ s effort to rebuild its economic house , which in international affairs , governments , in reviving economic growth , controlling nuclear proliferation , and managing energy and environmental challenges .
it is wrong to dismiss terrorism as a responsible government in the world .
terrorism remains a marginal role , and their appeal is at best limited .
they destroy only and not build .
it is worth noting that people took the streets of cairo and damascus , calling forth not al qaeda ’ s slogan , nor did it support its program .
moreover , efforts have been successfully implemented to push back against terrorists .
intelligence resources have been redirected , and national borders have become safer , and societies have become more resilient .
international cooperation on terror has increased significantly , in part because governments have felt that they need to strengthen cooperation in this area , despite disagreements over other areas .
military force has also played a role .
al qaeda lost its base in afghanistan , where the taliban government , which provides sanctuary to it , was overthrown .
osama bin laden was eventually found and killed by us special forces .
military drones play an extraordinary role in killing the country ’ s terrorists .
weak governments can be strengthened , and governments that tolerate or even support terrorism must be held accountable .
terrorists and terrorism can not be eliminated , as we can not eliminate disease from the planet .
there will always be attempts to use force against innocent people to pursue their political objectives , whether for men , women , or children .
in fact , terrorists are advancing in some areas .
pakistan continues to provide sanctuary to al qaeda and some of the world ’ s most dangerous terrorists .
owing to instability , weak government , and ideology , yemen , libya , somalia , and nigeria have also become fertile ground for terrorism , where they are organized , training , and implemented , as in afghanistan a decade ago .
the old organization was devastated by the new organization .
the danger of homegrown terrorism is growing .
we see this in the united kingdom and the united states .
the internet , the great inventions of the modern western world , was treated as weapons , incentives , and training those who seek to harm the world .
in october 2003 , then-us secretary of defense donald rumsfeld offered a question that still makes good sense : “ do we capture , kill , imprison terrorists , and 改造 terrorists every day , more terrorists than islamist schools and radical religious extremists have recruited , trained , and mobilized against us ? ”
if all equals , we may have done it .
but any small success of terrorists , which would mean high lives and money costs for open societies , is worth the cost .
what is to be done ?
alas , there is no single way .
the palestinian state is not enough , because the terrorists want to eliminate the country ’ s states ; on the issue of kashmir , they can not meet pakistan ’ s terrorists ’ greater demands for indian territory .
reducing unemployment is certainly a good thing , but many terrorists are not the poor .
helping societies in the middle east and elsewhere to become more democratic would help to ease the marginalization and deter extremism , but that is easier said than done .
of course , we need to continue to do so , making us less vulnerable and the weaker terrorists .
but most important is to prevent terrorism from spreading in any way , especially in arab and islamic societies .
in 2009 , a father in nigeria told the us embassy in lagos that he feared that his son would make terrible things , thereby preventing the latter from sending a bomb to detroit .
only when more parents , teachers , and social leaders behave in such a way can the terrorists dry up , and law-enforcement authorities will be able to cooperate on the ground .
terrorism must lose its legitimacy in places where tradition has traditionally supported or tolerated terrorism .
transatlantic trade for all
washington , dc – negotiations on the creation of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the european union and the united states have been widely welcomed .
british prime minister david cameron has called the ttip “ only one chance , ” arguing that it would yield some 亿英镑 billion ( $ 亿英镑 billion ) to the eu and the us , with 亿英镑 billion in potential benefits for the rest of the world .
for a world that awaits the 冗长 doha round of the world trade organization , even bilateral initiatives are like a 恩惠 恩惠 , especially the “ bilateral ” relationship that the financial times recently pointed out , including the world ’ s two most recent “ bilateral ” relationships .
but risk is also huge : the agreement could hurt developing countries ’ exports , unless the eu and the us act together to protect these actors ’ interests .
the most excited aspect of the plan ’ s agenda – the emphasis on regulatory barriers such as mandatory product standards – is in fact the most important concern .
the european union and the us tariffs are low – on average , less than 5 % – so further caps do not have serious implications for other countries .
as a result , third countries ’ choices will depend on how the ttip standards are set : by harmonizing ( shared standards ) or recognizing ( accepting a set of goods and services that meet each other ’ s rules ) .
the first option would enable producers everywhere to take advantage of economies of scale .
but , in some cases , harmonized standards are more stringent than some of the previous standards .
while new standards would apply to suppliers of all exporting countries , compliance costs are often different , which means that a higher standard of firms will suffer .
in the late 1990 ’ s , the eu decided to coordinate the standards of 黄曲霉素 ( a toxic form of toxic 族 ) , with eight members – including italy , the netherlands , and spain – contributing to a $ 6.7 billion decline in national capital , fruit , and the fall of european exports .
if mutual recognition is taken , the eu and the us will recognize each other ’ s standards or compliance procedures , and firms will choose less stringent than in various criteria .
if the policy expands to third-country firms , it would have a significant liberalizing role .
malaysia ’ s tv producer , for example , may choose to meet , say , a safe standard for security in the us , and then sells the same products in both the us and europe , both of which enjoy the benefits of the economy .
but , if the ttip excluded third-country firms from mutual recognition , their competitiveness relative to european and american companies would be severely weakened .
in fact , our research shows that when mutual commitments include restrictive restrictions on origin , intra-regional trade will increase , trade with other countries would weaken , and developing countries suffer most .
indeed , the eu ’ s previous recognition of the agreement ( for example , in terms of professional services ) suggests that the rules of excessive discipline are problematic .
while brazil , which is allowed to sell in portugal , could sell the entire eu , access to portuguese engineers and accountants still will have to meet their own practice in the rest of the european union , which has forced 工人 bureaucratic procedures for the labor movement , which is undermining much-needed labor mobility .
moreover , in terms of tariffs and standards , wto rules are not equal .
while wto rules protect countries that are excluded from bilateral and regional tariff agreements , thereby ensuring that integrated markets do not receive additional advantages , conservation efforts to protect third countries are virtually non-existent .
even without international law , the eu and the us can take two steps to ensure that the ttip does not hurt developing economies .
for starters , they can agree to not enforce strict rules , which would allow all countries to enjoy the benefits of bilateral mutual recognition .
second , in areas where coordination is considered , they can favor less stringent standards , unless there is ample evidence that doing so would undermine the relevant regulatory objectives .
this is akin to the wto ’ s current test of international standards .
if the eu and the us implemented both , the rest of the world will be able to track the ttip with hope , not fear .
a balanced view of us-china trade
beijing – before july 2007 , most economists regarded global growth as the most significant threat to global imbalances .
they feel that america ’ s net foreign debt – the consequences of a chronic current-account deficit – would lead to a sharp reduction in the flow of money , thereby weakening the dollar , then rising interest rates , and eventually plunging the us economy into crisis .
but this scenario failed to materialize , in fact , in the wake of the us sub-prime debacle , and immediately dragged the global economy into the worst recession since the 1930 ’ s .
most economists couldn ’ t foresee the real economic drivers of the crisis , because they lack sufficient attention to the rapid growth of the us total .
in fact , they have focused on america ’ s foreign debt , neglecting the problem of household debt ( mortgage and consumer debt ) , public debt , business debt , and financial debt .
they should pay more attention to the sustainability of us mortgage and consumer debt .
in 2007 , these two liabilities had risen to more than 90 % of gdp , compared to just 24 % of net external debt .
of course , the different components of debt are very different from their respective properties and sources of funding – and the same is true of sustainability .
but the components of a country ’ s total debt and its funding are certainly connected .
second , a part of the problems caused by total debt will affect the rest .
after the subprime crisis erupted , households in the us can pay mortgages and consumer debt to pay for their mortgages , or to abandon their repayment .
the decline in america ’ s total debt , and the narrowing of the fiscal gap between gross debt and domestic capital , has made the us current-account deficit significantly improved in 2008-2009 , as fed chairman ben bernanke has shown .
in fact , despite the dollar ’ s appreciation in safe-haven demand , the us current-account situation has been consolidated .
unfortunately , as the private sector deleveraging and rising household savings , the us economy , driven by debt and consumption , is mired in recession .
to reduce the negative impact of private-sector deleveraging on growth , the us government pursued expansionary monetary and fiscal policies .
today , the household debt situation after the government intervened heavily in the aftermath of the government ’ s intervention , while the fiscal position deteriorated sharply , with the current-account balance falling again .
the sustainability of public debt has replaced private debt as the biggest problem in financial stability in the us , and the focus of debate on the us current-account position has shifted from the sustainability of external debt to the impact of diminishing growth and employment .
american policymakers are now in a quandary : to promote growth and reduce overall debt levels .
the most important way to achieve these two objectives is to increase exports through increased us competitiveness .
but this increase in competitiveness comes from ?
reducing the dollar ’ s value in the short run will boost us competitiveness in the short term , but not for the long term .
because the rapid deterioration of fiscal positions already worries investors about capital losses on their us government securities , the devaluation will make foreigners less willing to finance america ’ s budget deficit .
without foreign funds , the yield on us government debt will be forced to raise and the us economy will relapse into recession .
in the long run , america ’ s development model must be driven by the reliance on debt and consumption to be innovative in the us .
only then can the us truly increase its competitiveness and allow the government to reduce private and public debt to a sustainable level while maintaining a reasonable growth rate .
but neither increased competitiveness nor reduction of total debt can be achieved overnight .
whatever the country ’ s bilateral trade surplus , america ’ s current-account deficit will continue to exist in the short run .
as a result , china ’ s continued investment in its trade surplus is vital to us economic growth and financial stability .
given america ’ s significant interest in buying us treasuries in china , it is hard to understand why the us government and congress tend to complain about the bilateral current-account deficit in the us .
at the same time , it is difficult to explain why china is reluctant to reduce its bilateral trade surplus , because massive holdings of us government securities are extremely low and large capital losses are lost .
the good news is that , in chinese president hu jintao ’ s recent visit to the us , china and china have made positive efforts to address bilateral imbalances .
this portends a more rational and constructive dialogue between the united states and china , which would benefit the global economy .
the banking union first
brussels – when the financial crisis began , people used charles goodhart to describe banks : “ international , die , and national . ”
at the time ( 2008-2009 ) , the international megabanks had to bail out their home governments in distress .
but now europe ’ s problems are in the opposite direction , with banks “ in life , and europe . ”
in spain , for example , local savings banks are financing providers of 地产 booms .
as prosperity becomes a depression , the resulting losses are over to the country ’ s entire country , which has become a problem for europe , because it is about the survival of the euro .
national supervisors always try to minimize domestic problems .
their instinct ( and their bureaucratic interests ) is to defend the “ national champion ” bank ’ s performance abroad .
but their resistance to recognizing problems at home is even greater .
until recently , the spanish authorities did not insist that the country ’ s real-estate sector is temporary .
recognizing the truth means that they ignored the unsustainable construction of a thriving construction boom that is now in danger of insolvency .
in ireland , the initial situation was not very different from spain .
when the problem began , the finance minister , then , declared that ireland would implement “ the minimal cost of bank bailouts . ”
predictably , national regulators tend to ignore domestic problems , so the cost of clearing insolvent banks should be borne by countries themselves .
as a result , even in the eurozone , banking supervision remains largely a matter of national isolation .
the newly established european banking authority has the authority to do much more than national supervisors , whose daily work is largely based on domestic conditions .
but reality has shown that this approach is not tenable .
the problem may begin at the national level , but , given the monetary union ’ s presence , they quickly threatened stability throughout the eurozone banking system .
at the june summit , european leaders finally realized that fixing the situation and transferring the functions of eurozone banking supervision to the ecb would be essential .
as a monetary union , financial integration is very strong in the eurozone , making it a no-brainer for the ecb .
moreover , the ecb has already borne the role of maintaining a stable eurozone banking system .
so far , however , the ecb must continue to borrow massively in terms of banks ’ solid degree of lending , because all information is in the hands of national supervisors , which have gone on the hands of national regulators , and that it can not survive until it failed .
allowing the ecb to exercise this function would also help to stem the ongoing integration process , which , though not yet in public discourse , has become a real threat .
just ask any large international bank headquartered in distressed eurozone countries .
consider the case of a bank headquartered in italy , which has an important subsidiary in germany .
germany ’ s subsidiary naturally has a surplus of money ( on average , on average , on average ) .
the parent bank wanted to use this money to strengthen the entire group ’ s liquidity .
but germany ’ s regulatory authorities argue that there is risk in italy , so it is resisting transfers .
the interests of the home country ( italy ) have the opposite interest .
it wants to see the “ internal capital market ” operations , better .
here , the ecb is right to act as a neutral arbiter to respect these opposing interests .
but , while allowing the ecb to exercise banking supervision , it will also create another problem : will national supervisory authorities continue to bear responsibility for the 储蓄银行 savings banks that are no longer regulated ?
the logic of economic ( and political ) logic means that the eurozone needs a common bank bailout fund .
this need not be officially recognized .
but this is a typical practice in the european integration process : incomplete measures in one area require follow-up steps in the relevant areas .
but the financial crisis made it possible for policymakers to explain why , as the past has done , there is another step .
they need to accelerate their efforts to save the euro considerably .
the new promise of abenomics
tokyo – the liberal democratic party ( ldp ) scored a decisive victory in the december 14 parliamentary election , because japanese voters overwhelmingly supported prime minister shinzo abe ’ s macroeconomic policy agenda .
while voters voter turnout or relatively low – largely owing to some technical nature of such issues – the message is clear : most japanese are reluctant to return to economic trajectories before “ abenomics ” is not .
when abenomics is the first arrow of the fiscal stimulus – the fiscal stimulus program – the asset market responded positively .
the second arrow of abenomics – monetary easing – reinforced this effect .
in the last two years , the stock market ’ s market capitalization has almost doubled , enabling consumers ’ wealth to grow .
moreover , the yen has depreciated by nearly one-third against the dollar , from around 80 yen to nearly 120 yen , leaving japan ’ s export industries booming .
more encouraging is the evolution of labor markets , unlike in asset markets , which reflect outcomes , not just expectations .
here , too , there is good news .
labor markets have been consolidated , unemployment remains at 3.5 % , and the ratio for job seekers and job seekers is higher than in 1 % .
to be sure , there are some setbacks : japan ’ s gdp shrank in second and third quarters .
but this downward fall in the consumption tax ( from 5 % to 8 % ) will not be blamed for abenomics .
indeed , abe is just following a law that was passed by the previous democratic government of japan ’ s government .
the first two arrows of abenomics were aimed at stimulating demand – and they are extremely effective .
while the consumption-tax hike will be needed to keep the two arrows flying smoothly , unfortunately , the increase has been hindering both of these policies .
the good news is that the tax hike is only temporary , and will soon begin to disappear , with industrial production approaching full capacity .
when demand begins to exceed supply , demand-side stimulus policies will become ineffective , beginning with the third arrow of abenomics : growth-enhancing structural reforms .
such reforms are necessary to boost productivity growth and improve japan ’ s economic competitiveness .
four imperatives stand out .
the first priority should be to eliminate – or at least reduce – the vast number of government regulations that are needed to curb economic dynamism .
the current system is so cumbersome that it will take more than 30 years to open a new medical school in tokyo .
likewise , flights to 羽田机场 转接 , a convenient conduit for the tokyo city area , were restricted .
this is certainly not a recipe for long-term economic prosperity .
moreover , the japanese government should intensify negotiations on the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , which has already been involved in the negotiations , from mexico to the united states to vietnam .
such a partnership would improve japan ’ s trade prospects considerably , including in sensitive sectors like agriculture , where exports of rapid consumer goods like flowers and vegetables would benefit .
japan ’ s leaders must also expand the labor force that is severely constrained by its rapid aging .
in the absence of large-scale immigration , japan is not ready to open up immigration , and a relatively simple solution would be to integrate more women into the workforce .
finally , abe ’ s government must cut the corporate-tax rate to align it with international standards .
in an increasingly intense battle against foreign investment , reducing corporate tax rates will actually increase japan ’ s tax revenue , by driving firms to invest their vast cash reserves .
now that abe ’ s government has received a new mandate for japanese voters , it must follow through on its promise – a firm and comprehensive undertaking of structural reform .
this will require some sacrifices .
in fact , japanese households are already suffering the hard way that their consumption-tax hikes are raised .
the next step in abe ’ s government is to use its political capital to 制服 the vested interests of vested interests – including political and business .
this means forcing firms to abandon some of the special tax benefits that they currently enjoy .
politicians must engage in the taxpayer identification system .
and government officials have to abandon some of their rights .
if these groups come together with japanese citizens to accept a reasonable sacrifice , abe ’ s government will fulfill its promise and build a thriving economy .
for the sake of japan ’ s entire interests – not to mention a world economy that needs new sources of dynamism – that promise is worth fulfilling .
the missing arrow of abenomics
tokyo – soon after japanese prime minister shinzo abe took office in 2012 , he introduced a policy of massive fiscal stimulus and aggressive monetary easing .
since then , japanese policymakers have been working to launch what abe calls the third “ arrow ” of the third “ arrow ” : a major reform program in important industries , and to dismantle the structural barriers to growth .
but focusing on public policy allows the “ 第四支 arrow ” – the private sector – to be hollowed out .
this is unfortunate , because the government can not address japan ’ s ills alone .
annual productivity growth is extremely weak , and less than 2 % over the past 20 years , which suggests that opportunities are missed , and costs are declining .
japan ’ s productivity plummeted in the entire economy ; labor and capital productivity in almost all sectors – even in japan ’ s signature advanced manufacturing sector – are stagnating .
labor productivity in the transport sector , for example , is roughly half that of germany .
this trend implies that annual gdp growth will averaged only 1.3 % by 2025 , and a third decade of stagnation .
this outcome coincided with adverse demographic trends – and will amplify the effect of the latter – to limit fiscal revenues and increase costs for universal health care and pensions .
whether japan can escape this trajectory depends on individual companies ’ decision to invest , change workplace policies , adopt new technologies , and try to do business .
abe ’ s structural reforms will take time , and the political will to implement , but japanese companies must not wait .
they can and must act , not to mention government change .
in many cases , bottlenecks are not regulation , but from entrenched ways of doing business .
new research by the mckinsey global institute examines japan ’ s advanced manufacturing sectors , retail , financial services , and health care – all of which have significant untapped productivity potential .
first , japanese firms must become more integrated into the global arena .
exports to the fastest-growing overseas market are clearly one way to overcome sluggish domestic demand .
but , rather than just selling products abroad , japanese firms need to expand their operations and organize a wider international 人才网 .
this process must first understand what customers want and are determined to provide solutions accordingly .
managing strict closed r & d operations must become more liquid , open , and more open to customers and suppliers .
japanese companies also need to improve their capabilities in areas such as marketing , pricing , and talent .
while some of japan ’ s top-performing companies are performing well in these areas , most are still severely lacking .
to compete in global markets , they need to achieve similar consistency with traditional areas of strength .
many japanese companies have yet to digitize the paper and update outdated information-technology systems .
other companies can move beyond basic digitization to next-generation technologies ( 如大 analytics ) and benefit from it .
companies can also address labor shortages with smart software systems and robotics .
manufacturers can expand or replace assembly lines with technologies such as the internet and 3d printing .
more broadly , japanese companies must organize for performance and discipline .
as policy changes unleash market forces , businesses will face greater competition .
some firms may need to restructure or exit unprofitable markets ; some companies may have to mergers with mergers and acquisitions to achieve economies of scale .
finally , shareholders and executives should tie their performance to incentives .
some large japanese companies have started to transform their traditional 年资 model into performance-based pay structures .
other companies should follow suit .
promoting younger , more diverse talent can be injected into new ideas .
if japan ’ s private sector raises the challenge , it could push the economy into a faster growth path .
a company ’ s 创新奖 has forced competitors to make more competition , thereby boosting the entire industry .
for example , toyota introduced more efficient production processes in the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s , and was ultimately adopted by the entire auto industry .
japan should not meet the future annual gdp growth rate of 1.3 % , and it can reach about 3 % annual growth by 2025 .
doing so would require a doubling of labor productivity , but it remains achievable .
more than half of growth gains can be achieved by adopting the best practices used in global companies , and technology can fill most of the remaining vacancies .
japanese business leaders need to combine big thinking with detail and detail .
they need to create innovative products , penetrate new markets , and invest actively in equipment , technology , and talent , while careful review of every aspect of their operations .
traditional ways of doing business must be abandoned .
but there is plenty of room for progress , spurring faster economic growth .
huge trade flows , the rise of billions of new consumers in the emerging world , and technological breakthroughs are transforming the global economy rapidly .
japan could turn this wave of disruption into opportunity and escape its current trajectory .
单恋 russia
this month , he hosted putin in tokyo and his hometown of 山口县 ( known as hot springs ) .
but abe ’ s pursuit of his quest does not bode well for japan , which has made much of it to russia .
abe ’ s diplomatic overtures to putin are part of his strategy : a counterweight to japan as china ’ s counterweight to china and rebalancing power in asia . japan , russia , china , and india form an asian strategy .
abe has established close ties with india , and will improve relations with russia – and , after world war ii , that japan never made peace with russia – as the missing cause of the regional balance of power .
but abe ’ s effort to build trust with russia is not just a counterweight to china ’ s ambitions .
he also wanted russia to return the southern kuril islands with abundant resources to the northern territories of the islands in 1945 , with the soviet union having bombed the four islands in hiroshima and in the long run .
in exchange , abe has offered economic aid to russia , invest in neglected far east , and energy deals .
abe , however , faces multiple obstacles .
first , japan is a participant in sanctions against russia .
sanctions have been imposed since russia invaded crimea in march 2014 , which has moved russia closer to its traditional rival , china ; and putin has publicly stated that sanctions are a barrier to peace treaties .
as a response to abe ’ s overtures , putin has been pursuing a tough bargain .
russia has strengthened its defense deployment in the northern territories , while putin told the japanese media that the country ’ s current territory is in its interest .
“ we think we don ’ t have territorial territory , ” he said , “ it ’ s just japan that [ japan ] sees territorial territory . ”
the us-led sanctions and lower oil prices have hit russia ’ s economy , which is expected to contract by 0.8 % in 2016 .
thus , putin is more reluctant to compromise on territorial issues , lest he tarnish his domestic image as a staunch defender of national interests .
against this background , abe ’ s desire to address territorial disputes in the “ hot springs summit ” has been dashed , and that russia ’ s return to 68 new commercial agreements is not surprising .
many of the new agreements are symbolic , but some are substantial , including an agreement worth $ 2.5 billion , a $ 1 billion bilateral investment fund .
in the latter agreement , japan and russia will establish a “ special framework ” to manage economic activity on disputed islands .
but the plan has faced trouble .
peter 拉哈 , the leading director of the russian government ’ s far eastern investment and export agency , has said that there is legal obstacles to establishing this framework , and japanese firms operating in south korea must pay taxes to russia .
but if japan did that , it would recognize russia ’ s jurisdiction over the islands .
so what abe wants is rejected , and putin has succeeded in easing russia ’ s isolation .
abe is the first g7 leader to hold a summit with putin after russia ’ s annexation of crimea , and now russia has won japan ’ s economic cooperation .
japan is the only g7 country with a territorial dispute with russia , and it is clearly more eager to reach a deal than the kremlin .
but this plays into russia ’ s hands .
japan ’ s stance has softened , and signals that they can accept a partial return to the islands , while russia ’ s position has become even stronger .
after the latest summit , abe revealed that putin did not seem to have signed a deal with the soviet union in 1956 , which stipulates that the smaller two smaller territories will return to japan after a peace treaty in japan .
this year marks the 60th anniversary of the joint declaration , which was widely viewed as a breakthrough .
today , the kremlin has said that it will deliver on the terms of the declaration that japan does not join a security alliance against russia .
japan has no position to address russia ’ s concerns .
it can not choose a us-led sanctions ; nor can it allow the disputed northern territories to be held under the jurisdiction of the us security treaty , especially when japan continues to urge the us to assert its control of japan and assert sovereignty in china .
putin , for his part , seems content with his negotiating position .
at the 温泉 summit , he lasted three hours later , perpetuating his habit of letting foreign leaders like him ; he also rejected the japanese government ’ s gift – a male partner for japan in 2012 .
now that abe ’ s political capital is going to pick up with putin , it is largely irrelevant .
japan ’ s dilemma is deeper .
us president-elect donald trump ’ s readiness to ease relations with russia may have helped abe continue to love putin ; but if russia is in the us , it will never need japan .
the berlin consensus ?
hong kong – my recent visit to berlin recalls my own last visit , in the summer of 1967 , in the summer of 1967 , when i would continue to divide and suppress the wall of the entire german society .
now , with the german people ’ s hard work and the sacrifice of unity , berlin has become dynamic , and the new economic thinking centers ( the institute for the new economic thinking ) are right to set the stage for the meeting .
the theme of the conference is the “ lost of paradigm , ” more than 300 economists , political scientists , 者 , and ecological scholars , and the challenges posed by the challenges of today ’ s rising inequality , rising unemployment , global financial dislocations , and 气候变化 .
almost all delegates agree that the old paradigm of neoclassical economics has failed , but there is no consensus on how to replace it .
as the nobel laureate economist amartya sen noted in the meeting , europe ’ s crisis stems from four failures – political , economic , social , and intellectual .
the global financial crisis – beginning with the sub-prime subprime crisis in the united states in 2007 and eventually became europe ’ s sovereign-debt ( and banking ) crisis – raises questions that we can not afford to answer , owing to excessive specialization and fragmentation .
and , to be sure , our world has become far more complex , so that it can not be explained by any simple , 高度 theory of economic , technological , demographic , and environmental changes .
particularly important , the rise of emerging markets has challenged western mores and inductive logic .
as a result , we can predict outcomes in the context of the principle ( law ) and the causes .
by using 归纳法 , we can infer the principles of the middle .
the idea of the east , by contrast , is 因式 , from pragmatism to guessing the next step .
溯 is pragmatic because it is pragmatic , focusing only on outcomes , by pointing out the principles , and thus setting out why .
for example , the science theory is written by the victors , and it was influenced by a particular 时代背景 and the social dimension of the time .
the free-market ideology evolved from anglo-saxon theorists ( many of them from scotland ) , and they are moving to the new shores of the world , allowing individuals with wealth to feel that consumption will grow indefinitely .
the continent ’ s ideas are mainly in the quest for urbanization and the pursuit of social order , which emphasizes institutional analysis of political and political systems .
as a result , neoclassical economics was largely influenced by newton and descartes ’ s the physical physics of the nineteenth century , from 定性分析 to quantifying human behavior , assuming that these actions are both rational and irresponsible .
this idea of “ 预先 equilibrium ” – the belief that markets always self-correcting – leads to policy paralysis until the great depression hit , and john maynard keynes argued that the gap between the unemployment rate and the consumption of output was taken seriously .
by the 1970 ’ s , the neo-classical equilibrium school was persuaded to persuade keynesians that “ finance is just a 包装纸 ” in the real sector , and thus little knowledge of the destabilizing role of financial markets .
economists like hyman minsky tried to correct this mistake , but then led the profession as the champion of milton friedman and the smallest governments , such as milton friedman , which was only silent .
but then the technology , demographics , and globalization of globalization have brought unexpected challenges to neoclassical economics .
with the leverage of the world ’ s advanced countries through the leverage provided by derivatives , 40 billion of the world ’ s population has begun to enter middle-income status , not only for global resources , but also for environmentally ecological sustainability .
the same is true not only for the west , but also in the east .
the historian 黄仁宇 黄仁宇 explained in 1987 about china :
“ as the world enters modern times , most countries that bear the brunt of internal and external pressure must be rebuilt to build governance models based on a commercial model based on the rules of commerce ... but that is a good thing . ”
the renewal process will affect the two classes and inevitably need to reintroduce institutional ties between the two .
comprehensive destruction will be the norm ; and it often requires decades of work .
using historical frameworks , we can see a new , multipolar global system that produces complex structural structures that interact with many of the country ’ s inflation , europe ’ s debt , and even the arab spring .
we are witnessing a wide range of simultaneous global convergence ( the narrowing of income , wealth , and knowledge gaps among countries ) and local divergence ( increasing income , wealth , and knowledge gaps within countries ) .
adaptive systems struggle between evolving order and innovation .
as the british philosopher bertrand russell put it : “ security and justice require centralized government control , which is bound to expand as a global government if it is to be effective .
on the contrary , progress requires achieving a level of personal initiative that is compatible with social order . ”
a new wave of “ creative destruction ” has emerged in a new wave of economist joseph schumpeter : even if central banks struggle to stabilize their markets through liquidity , credit for businesses and households remains tight .
we live in an era of two fears of inflation and deflation ; the unprecedented prosperity of the day , and widening inequality ; on the one hand , technological advances are running out of resources .
at the same time , the current political system is neither willing nor willing to make good work , but good governance , good governance , sustainable environmental and social harmony – a paradise of self-serving free-riding , but at the expense of the natural environment and future generations ’ wellbeing .
we can not postpone the pain of adaptation forever by printing money .
sustainability can be achieved only when the vested interests are willing to sacrifice the have-nots .
the washington consensus on the free-market reforms in china has been reached 20 years ago .
the new centre for research on economic thinking in berlin shows that we need a new consensus – a sacrifice that sacrifices sacrifice .
europe is .
accepting japan ’ s language
tokyo – in recent years , the number of tourists visiting japan has grown rapidly , reaching a high of 万人次 million last year , and 29 % more than in 2013 .
japan , it seems , is moving toward becoming an asian cultural center , and a century ago , the indian nobel prize-winning poet rabindranath tagore lived in tokyo as a cultural center for asia .
china ’ s revolutionary revolution and chiang kai-shek , along with many other prominent asians , came to japan .
today , every day , every day , the passengers will learn two words : “ 多末 , ” meaning “ 你好 , ” or “ thank you , ” or “ thank , ” or “ 斯米 , ” and “ 斯米 ” and “ 劳驾 . ”
ordinary japanese say every day that there is a bit of “ 斯米 斯米 , ” with little to apologize for a friend or a stranger .
but , since world war ii , japan ’ s leaders have truly felt that regret to other countries is not so simple .
but that is precisely what prime minister shinzo abe did at the 70th anniversary of the end of world war ii .
the speech would be based on the opinion of many japan and the world ’ s leading world war ii historians , but more important than abe himself , his conscience , and his watch , because he understood that his words were momentous on this sensitive subject .
of course , abe is not the first japanese leader to face such a challenge .
before he , countless prime ministers and cabinet governors have expressed sincere remorse about what happened in wwii .
he went on to express “ feelings of deep remorse , ” offering a “ heartfelt apology ” to the victims .
ten years later , prime minister junichiro koizumi reiterated murayama ’ s 歉词 and said that japan has been “ taking action to express remorse for war ” since the end of world war ii , and , in particular , development assistance and humanitarian action .
koizumi also promised that “ japan is a peace-loving country that will work to achieve peace and prosperity for all . ”
although japan has made these straightforward declarations , some governments and people still do not meet , giving people the impression that japan ’ s leaders do not feel the impression of remorse .
to some extent , this gordian knot is understandable ; the pain of survivors and their descendants remains acute .
but in some cases , the unwillingness to abandon historical grievances reflects political interests .
indeed , it is politically motivated to claim that abe did not agree to previous official apologies ( though he has repeatedly pledged to agree to his earlier apologies ) , and that it is also politically motivated to believe that abe was trying to overthrow history ( though he never denied japanese colonial aggression ) .
moreover , some will characterize japan ’ s overall image as an unrepentant state – and , worse , the country ’ s commitment to militarism .
this description is compelling , given that japan has been a constructive member of the international community for seven decades .
for japanese who ask for how long the country needs to apologize for their country ’ s needs , it is important to say that a “ tweet ” on the subject should be enough to convince abe to recognize this .
but the prime minister has decided to make a strong and sincere statement on the subject .
at the beginning of this year , abe announced that he will express his remorse for the war in 70 years , describing japan ’ s progress in supporting peace , and expressing the contribution that japan can contribute to peace in asia and elsewhere in the world for decades to come .
indeed , some observers have raised concerns among some observers : by helping to build a strong security structure in the asia-pacific region , japan could undermine its ability to assert its own interests .
so they are using rumors to attack abe ’ s statement for months , and even a few months before the speech began .
but asia ’ s security and prosperity are certainly about everyone ’ s interests .
so , even if abe ’ s words are not important , it is important that he has expressed his resolve , and what actions he ( in the appropriate sense of humility ) take .
indeed , abe seems determined to make real contributions to peace , based on effective cooperation with japan ’ s friends and allies .
but if asia is to surpass historical tensions , the victims of japanese wartime aggression must recognize that japan is not 1931 , 1941 , and even 1945 , and , as many asian leaders have recognized in the last few years , they can benefit all .
in 1998 , south korean president kim dae-jung responded positively to his speeches at former japanese prime minister 小渊惠三 小渊惠三 .
the same is true of indonesia , the philippines , vietnam , and other countries , which now welcome japan ’ s commitment to protecting regional security .
these countries ’ openness to reconciliation has given japan a reputation as a key arbiter of regional peace and prosperity , not to mention increasingly dynamic cultural hubs .
the rest of the region should follow suit , accepting japan ’ s sincere apologies in order to build a better future with japan .
at a time when asia faces serious security challenges , this stance is urgent .
the big opportunity for smallholder farmers
new york – the g-8 ’ s program of $ 20 billion in smallholder farmers , launched at the recent summit in l ’ aquila summit in l ’ aquila , italy , may be a historic breakthrough against hunger and extreme poverty .
if this new funding is serious , africa ’ s food production will increase substantially .
in fact , the new plan and other health , education , and infrastructure are likely to be the most effective measure of the millennium development goals , the international agreement on the millennium development goals , which set extreme poverty , disease , and hunger into half by 2015 .
in 2006 , i led the millennium development goals under secretary general kofi annan to manage the united nations millennium development goals .
“ smallholder farmers ” are the basis for this project , and the term “ smallholder ” is the name of farmers in africa , latin america , and asia that are not more than one-tenth of farmers ( 2.5 acres ) .
they are hungry because they are unable to buy the high-yield seeds , fertilizer , irrigation equipment , and other tools that increase productivity .
this has led to a dearth of crop yields , and it is not enough .
their poverty causes low agricultural productivity , while low farm productivity has exacerbated poverty .
this creates a vicious circle , technically known as the poverty trap .
the vicious circle of the 饥饿 working group , led by the united nations millennium development initiative , should be broken , under the auspices of the two world ’ s leading scientists , and the group ’ s conclusions should be broken .
the millennium plan proposed a dramatic increase in global funding for this area , which annan ’ s call for the launch of a green revolution in africa and donor countries was on the agenda in 2004 .
many of us , especially the current un secretary-general ban ki-moon , have made hard efforts to achieve this goal , with the secretary-general repeatedly claiming that the global food , financial , and energy crisis caused by the global food , financial , and energy crises of the past two years was particularly problematic .
the g-8 declaration reflects these efforts , of course , with us president barack obama , spanish prime minister josé luis rodríguez zapatero , australian prime minister josé 陆克文 , the world bank president robert 伯曼 , the european commissioner for european commissioner , and others .
the key is to get things done .
the lessons of history are clear .
the seed and fertilizer ( and sometimes free , delivery ) of smallholder farmers to smallholder farmers will produce lasting results .
not only can food be raised in the short term , but farmers can use high incomes and better health to accumulate a wide range of wealth : cash surpluses , soil nutrients , livestock , and health care and education .
the accumulation of assets , in turn , will kick-start local credit markets , such as micro-finance firms .
farmers can buy money in ways that make loans or improve their creditworthiness .
there is now agreement on the need to help smallholder farmers , but there are problems in practice .
the main risk now is that the “ bureaucracy ” is trying to compete for $ 20 billion in funding , to spend as much as possible on conferences , expert consultations , administrative costs , reports , and more meetings .
the “ partnership ” of donor countries is likely to be costly and expensive , with no effect on any delay .
if donor governments do value the outcome , they should take money from 30 or more independent bureaucratic aid agencies to manage them , and the authorities , most obviously , are in washington the world bank and the united nations international fund for agricultural development .
these two agencies will have billions of dollars in poverty reduction .
the famine in the region , especially in africa , offers the details of the national action plan , which provides details about how to use donor funds to provide high-yield seeds , fertilizer , irrigation , irrigation , warehouses , and advice advice .
an independent expert panel would review the national program ’ s scientific and managerial coherence .
if the plan passed , the fund ’ s funding will quickly be disbursed .
then , each national program is monitored , audited , and evaluated .
this approach is straightforward , effective , accountable , and scientifically sound .
the recent two successful donors are using this approach : a successful vaccine for vaccines for children in the global vaccine , as well as the global fund for aids , tuberculosis , and malaria providing support for these deadly diseases .
both institutions have saved millions of lives over the past decade , paving the way for a new and more efficient approach to development assistance .
it is not surprising that many un and affluent aid agencies compete for this .
but such contests are often in power , not in the most effective way to help the poor .
as a result , obama , rudd , zapatero , and other visionary leaders can make a significant difference by fulfilling their commitments at the g-8 summit .
the 黑白 problem
new york – on july 16 , two men who appeared to be in the afternoon seemed to be trying to get into a fine house in cambridge , massachusetts .
after a telephone call , a policeman arrived at the scene .
he saw a black male in the room demanding him .
the man refused .
the police demanded that identity .
the man still refuses to get out of the blue , but he is a harvard professor who showed radio , and warned the police not to 打扰 him .
he said that black americans were discriminated against , and demanded that the white police be known and read .
at this point , the cop was arrested by a group of colleagues who arrested the professor in disorderly conduct .
we now know that the professor had broken into his own home with the help of drivers , because the door was stuck .
this episode was unusual not in the police .
most americans know that if the police were to be 顶嘴 , they will soon become 气急败坏 .
the fact that the professor is black may well have not led to the possibility that the police could get their noses on their own .
this is not unusual .
the special theory of this case is that henry louis 路易斯 is one of the most prominent professors in the united states , with lofty ideas , articles , and many on television .
he was a grandee , in academic and media circles , and a friend of president barack obama .
as a result , he warned james crowley , the cambridge police officer in cambridge .
american class and race overlap .
in this case , it is impossible to distinguish them from it .
gates is well aware of america ’ s terrible history of racial history , and it could be said that he was a victim of racial discrimination .
he can also see his failure to receive respect for a harvard professor and a media celebrity .
in an interview published online by his online release : “ [ crowley ] should be told that [ crowley ] should be told to me , ‘ i am sorry , sir , and good luck . ”
immediately after , they leave . ”
alas , 中士 had never heard of professor gates .
as a man who worked in the police , a sports fan , a sports fan , and a amateur basketball coach , crowley did not belong to the same 社交圈 .
indeed , the charge of gates has been canceled in time , if not by president barack obama ’ s invocation of “ 老友 ” gates , who has made the case for his administration ’ s use of medical bills in a row for weeks , and he could have dismissed the police as “ foolhardy . ”
then he and gates both spoke of the “ lessons ” of this incident .
gates may even be planning to take a television documentary on outrageous law enforcement .
if we have not yet learned that lesson , one of the lessons of the story is to tell us how easily the issue of racial sensitivities will emerge in the us .
there are too many mines in this area .
one of obama ’ s greatest achievements is that he has made serious discussion of the vast majority of the race by his intellect .
there is also a lot of talk : a disproportionate share of black criminal fraud in the us , poor neighborhoods , most of them black neighborhoods , and the true violence of police officers , as well as the true violence that police officers have applied to the absence of a kenyan identity .
perhaps it will require a number of white officers such as krauthammer ’ s legacy , even though they have been able to live in the house of cambridge , or in any other american city , in their homes .
but is the gates affair right ?
you might say it .
if not professor gates , who can pay attention ?
he is a grandee to attract national attention to this serious problem .
if the same thing is happening in an unknown man , or a poor , predominantly black man , perhaps no one knows .
this time , the events of cambridge university attracted attention .
but it is also true of the dangers of national discussion of race national .
given that it is too early to overstate the problem , gates may be subject to trivial accusations of abuse of much of the damage .
indeed , we don ’ t know whether this case is about racial categories .
crowley never mentioned the color of gates ’ skin , or any violence .
the implication is that both sides are overly sensitive to the implied allusion to disrespect .
the anger of a professor who is reluctant to be distracted is not the best way to discuss the plight of countless anonymous people , which are too small to be ignored .
a bollywood bride for sarkozy
paris – since french president nicolas sarkozy ’ s romantic visit to europe in his romantic tour with the former 模特 承认 , he took him from france ’ s most promising list of 钻石 王老五 .
his poll ratings fell below 50 % for the first time .
older french citizens do not appreciate their country ’ s leaders publicly .
in foreign countries , several egyptian parliamentarians were extremely excited about the french head of state with a girlfriend , even in congress .
likewise , india is struggling to deal with the protocol of protocol , which is about to deal with nicolas sarkozy as the head of the country ’ s republic on january 26 .
should the first girlfriend be like a first lady ?
the far-right hindu group opposes the day ’ s day , viewing it as decadent western festivals , warning that , if sarkozy had spoken with his girlfriend , they will welcome the streets .
this dispute has threatened to cast a pall over the summit of two of the world ’ s great democracies .
the high profits of the french interest , and the highly lucrative deals that drove the french economy , nuclear power plants , and airbus , depend on the visit .
so , as rumors of secrecy have been completed or are prepared to be prepared , have india ’ s public love of french president 恋情 满城风雨 推动 the two ?
the “ 萨尔 ” like sarkozy ’ s favorite magazine magazine reported that the two men plan to marry the popular speculation when they were going to marry .
sarkozy offered a 玫瑰色 心形 to his mutual affection , giving him a swiss watch .
but he has even refused to reject the exact date with the direct questioning of journalists .
“ you may get out in hindsight , ” he taunted .
there are rumors that the two men have taken on february 8 or september 9 , and others said that sarkozy was married in the élysée palace when she eschewed marriage .
if so , sarkozy has missed a romantic opportunity for a lifetime .
if both were in the cameras , as zuma and jordan 佩特拉 into the cameras , just imagine how hot it will look like before india ’ s taj mahal , the world ’ s most romantic place .
and , given that france is now fascinated by bollywood movies in india , a romantic indian wedding would be right .
布吕尼 ’ s own survival is also like the bollywood star ’ s 生活道路 , from model to actor .
a 歌唱 头发 头发 is a perfect 女郎 for a bollywood makeover .
the indian government will not be relieved if the first girlfriend were a first lady .
one of india ’ s largest newspapers , india , is afraid that some people don ’ t know , “ the girlfriend are not wife or spouse . ”
once marriage , all of which concern the french delegation , worries about the french delegation would be 烟消雾散 .
india is an extremely conservative society in addition to a bollywood 女演员 that has just 出道 a handful of innocent pornography .
divorce is anathema ( sarkozy is now twice divorced ) .
and , while the highly rich people are surrounded by a legion of lovers , they are not open to them .
a kiss between a public and a 亲吻 , even a couple , is no stranger to society .
in this respect , india resembles the france that sarkozy wants to break , rather than the current france .
in many french eyes , most indians want not to abandon the “ hypocrisy ” of sarkozy ’ s former predecessor , who , until former french president françois mitterrand , knew that he had a 情妇 and 私生女 .
sarkozy will have to know that a large share of the presidency ’ s weight comes from whatsapp and circumstance .
statecraft is statecraft .
sarkozy has a good press instinct , complaining that he and his 平常人 have nothing to conflate .
most french can only hold an exotic wedding in india .
sarkozy can make this dream a reality .
if he really does , as he put it , and want to get an honest and full word for her marriage , why not take advantage of the upcoming trip to india and let this wedding pass ?
he could have spent his bride on a carefully scripted elephant , and bride brides 身著 indian clothing .
sarkozy , who has been called a 喜欢 president , can wear all the kind of 金饰 that he wants , and makes his bride wear more diamonds .
cameras will smile , indians will smile , and france would be tempted to look no further than bollywood spectacle .
moreover , there is no catch up with the wedding .
a common agricultural policy
the netherlands – born of the common agricultural policy ( cap ) in 1957 – is now more than 50 years old , and the european commission is proposing a health check on its middle-aged offspring .
while the work involved was intended immediately , the plan was implemented in 2013 , but we also need to think far more carefully .
common agricultural policy was originally designed to provide reliable food sources to the six member states of the eu , when it was food importers and tried to achieve certain self-sufficiency .
all citizens deserve good , healthy , and cheap food ; increased agricultural productivity would benefit rural areas and make farmers a match in the eu ’ s growing wealth .
the methods needed to achieve these goals are developed , and food security is achieved .
soon , the cap was viewed as the jewel in the crown in the european project .
with the eu ’ s evolution and expansion , the food system has become more complex , not only in terms of production , processing , supply-chain organizations , and wholesale and retail 配销 , but also on the use of new issues such as health , environmental protection , and a more serious surveillance .
in 1991 , a study by the dutch government policy committee , which faced a choice of choice , showed that reducing 50 % of farmland , 80 % of pesticides , and only half of the cost , the eu ’ s food supply needs to be met .
at the same time , pollution would be cut by 70 % , and greenhouse gases would be reduced by 70 % , thanks to lower elements of the surface surface surface .
given that these figures are only 15 members of the eu , the eu is now 27 , so its potential may become even larger .
a dutch analysis of land use has shown that , by using best technologies and ecological means on the best available land , food production could increase significantly .
so it is no longer surprising that the number of farmers needed has been significantly reduced .
from the standpoint of food security and the wealth of rural areas , the main means of a common agricultural policy are needed to introduce new policy proposals .
perverse subsidies must be abolished , and new subsidies for products such as bio-fuels have recently been reconsidered .
the status quo certainly needs to change .
the eu ’ s agricultural policy has been reduced too frequently to provide income guarantees to rural communities ; but this attitude is undermining change .
competition must be encouraged , because more rural businesses will strengthen rural communities , causing farmers to decline and farms become better off .
a common agricultural policy would encourage cleaner , more productive , and efficient agriculture .
for the eu ’ s standing in the world , there is another additional benefit : once developing-country farmers are assured , the world trade organization will be able to restart the doha round of doha negotiations .
and , as long as renewed policy is in place , the role of common agricultural policies in europe ’ s political and social integration can be restored .
but such renewal can not be left at the mercy of global markets , because it may not necessarily benefit european agriculture and society .
if markets are “ 失当 , ” farmers are trapped in poverty and will be ignored in europe .
this is a real enough danger to policymakers , who should be seriously concerned about reforming agricultural policy under five important principles .
the eu needs a knowledge and innovation policy that strengthens european agriculture ’ s competitiveness .
this policy has been successful in the netherlands , which has contributed much to the development of the country ’ s agribusiness .
ten of the 21 branches of the dutch agricultural firm , including gardening , 观赏植物 , 种用 potatoes , and 小牛肉 , are among the largest industries in the country ’ s economy and trade balance .
as a whole , the eu ’ s policy of promoting scientific excellence and a more consistent study of more consistency within the european intellectual system would boost agricultural competitiveness and help food security and sustainable development .
and europe needs a restructuring policy on land use .
many structural improvements in the european level have been funded , but agricultural production and land use are not .
the development of agricultural actors will compliment the european ecological structure .
three and three policy responses to the european food system are joint calculations of production , processing , distribution , logistics , and retail .
consumption patterns are also integral to such systems .
preliminary studies by the european science foundation – “ the outlook for the european food system ” – would provide a helping policy for the eu .
in a world of rapid urbanization , 都市型 farming can produce high-quality agricultural products with a small amount of land .
this provides a answer to how to meet the growing demand for food , while providing a answer to environmental vice versa .
5 and new cap should include a solution that protects europe ’ s landscapes .
but not everywhere , cultural heritage should be preserved , and it should not be ignored .
and it should not be a defensive policy that focuses on poor-quality land .
these five key principles involve stark choices , but they may require less money for european taxpayers , not more .
they will make real contributions to cleaner , more productive , and efficient agriculture and land use , and they can carry out social needs .
the breakthrough of hunger
new york – today ’ s world hunger crisis is more than unprecedented .
nearly a billion people are suffering from chronic hunger – a population that is likely to increase 100 million years ago .
spain is leading global leadership in combating hunger , which will invite world leaders to converge madrid in late january to move words .
with spain ’ s leadership and un secretary general ban ki-moon , several donor governments are proposing to concentrate their financial resources in order to enable the world ’ s poorest farmers to grow more food , thereby escaping poverty traps .
the benefits of donor support would be remarkable .
africa , haiti , and other impoverished regions are currently planting crops without high-yield seeds and fertilizer .
the result is that food production ( corn ) is about one-third more than in the case of better agricultural inputs .
african farmers produce only about a ton of food per hectare per hectare , compared to a large number of chinese farmers using fertilizers .
african farmers know that they need fertilizer , only to afford it .
with donor help , they can use fertilizer .
at that point , these farmers would not only feed families , but also begin to earn market income and save the future .
with a few years of savings , these farmers could eventually become banks with bank credit , or enough cash to purchase necessary inputs on their own .
a broad consensus today is the need to finance africa ’ s small farmers ( with two hectares or less of land , or poor livestock dwellers ) .
one of the un secretary general ’ s guidelines concluded last year that africa ’ s agricultural sector will need to finance roughly four million donor contributions annually – roughly four times the size of the existing size – with improved seeds , fertilizer , irrigation , and extension training .
beyond direct aid to small farms , donors should help to develop more of the necessary r & d , thereby developing more variety of new high-yield seeds , especially to foster a temporary crop that can tolerate temporary flooding , excess nitrogen , 盐质 soil , pests , and other sustainable food production .
today ’ s technologies help the poor , while investing in better technologies in the future is the best division of labor .
the return on research and agriculture , such as the international rice research institute and the international maize and wheat research institute , has produced a research center for the study of “ green revolution ” in asia .
these centers are not well known , but they are heroes .
dozens of low-income , 赤字 countries ( and perhaps 40 to 40-50 ) have announced emergency plans to increase food production in small farms , but they are powerless to support the lack of donor funds .
these countries have asked the world bank to finance the world bank , and the bank has been engaged in a new “ global response to food crisis ” in 2008 .
but the bank ’ s funding is also inadequate in meeting these countries ’ emergency needs , and it will have to limit aid to aid , making it a small fraction of what it needs to be effective and efficient funding .
at the same time , nearly a billion people are trapped in hunger .
many donor countries claim that they are prepared to increase funding for small agriculture , but now seek a proper mechanism for implementation .
the current aid structure is inadequate .
the bilateral and multilateral aid agencies are highly fragmented , and their size is inadequate , both individually and collectively .
while many professionals have worked hard , the response to the hunger crisis remains inadequate .
the 2008 planting seasons took the same step , and the additional aid that poor farmers received during this period remains very little .
african countries are quietly seeking the small amounts of funding needed to purchase fertilizer and improved seeds .
as the advisory board member of the spanish government , my colleagues and i recommended that donors pool their money into the same international account that we call “ financing coordination mechanisms . ”
these pooled funds enable farmers in poor countries to obtain much-needed fertilizer , improved seeds , and small-scale irrigation devices .
poor countries can obtain immediate and predictable financing for agricultural inputs from a single account rather than with dozens of separate and highly fragmented donor donors .
by pooling financial resources to a single FCM , the government can maintain the administrative costs of a lower bailout program , and the flow of aid flows would be guaranteed , while poor countries do not have to negotiate for their assistance .
the time for business is over .
donors promised to double aid funds by 2010 , but they are still a long way off .
indeed , over the past two decades , they have actually cut aid for agricultural programs , and only now have started to return to normal .
at the same time , one billion people live in the shadow of hunger every day .
i need a breakthrough , with a demonstration effect , public , clear , and persuasive ; it can inspire public and emotional resources and demonstrate success .
we can create history in madrid when the world ’ s richest and poorest countries work together to seek solutions to the global hunger crisis .
the lives of the billion poorest people depend on it .
a breakthrough opportunity for global health
new york – every year , millions of people die from preventable and treatable diseases , especially in poor countries .
in many cases , life-saving drugs can be produced cheaply , but cost them at low cost .
more people die simply because they lack treatment or vaccines , which is why it is too late for the world ’ s talent talent and limited resources to treat the poor .
this is reflected in the failure of economics and law to be corrected .
the good news is that the opportunity to change is now in place , mainly through a international initiative spearheaded by the world health organization , which will begin to address loopholes in intellectual property development and lack of access to the problem .
today , drugs are unavailable to the two main issues .
one is that drug costs are too high ; or , more correctly , the drug price is too high , while production costs are only a fraction of the price .
the poor have little money to spend , so , under existing arrangements , pharmaceutical companies have little incentive to investigate diseases that afflict the poor .
it didn ’ t have to be this way .
pharmaceutical companies argue that prices are necessary to finance research and development .
in the united states , however , most of the health relevant r & d activities are the government – or , through public support , directly financed by the public support foundation , the national science foundation , and indirectly financed by drug purchases ( such as medicare and medicaid programs ) .
part of the failure to finance government finance is not traditional markets ; many individuals ’ spending on prescription drugs is insured .
governments finance health research because improved medicines are a public good .
the resulting knowledge will prevent infectious diseases from preventing infectious diseases and harming the economy and human health , thereby benefiting everyone .
to be effective , it must be shared as widely as possible when it is acquired .
thomas jefferson famously compared knowledge to candles : using a candle to light the light , and does not diminish the light of the first one .
by contrast , this makes all things brighter .
but , in the us and most of the world , drug prices are still high and the spread of knowledge is severely constrained .
this is because the patent system that we created gives innovators a temporary monopoly on their 创之物 , which motivated innovators to help their knowledge of knowledge .
this system makes innovation profitable , and it does provide incentives for some kinds of research ; but pharmaceutical companies have been able to innovate , and the incentives that they receive are not necessarily compatible with social returns .
in the health sector , it is more profitable to work toward “ saturation ” drugs than to develop a cure .
the patent system may even be counterproductive , because the most important input in research is the leading idea , while the patent system encourages secrecy .
the solution to the problem of high prices and research is to replace the current model with the government incentives fund .
with a reward system , innovators are rewarded for new knowledge , but they are no longer a monopoly of new knowledge .
as a result , the forces of competitive markets will ensure that , as long as drugs are developed , they can be accessed as low as possible ( rather than inflated monopolies ) as a patient .
fortunately , some us lawmakers have strong interest in this approach .
the prize for the hiv/aids act , which senator bernie sanders has proposed , is just the beginning .
the sanders bill includes an important part of the effort to encourage open-source research , which would push existing research models from secrecy to sharing .
but , globally , our innovation system will require much more change .
the world health organization ’ s effort to promote broad reforms at the international level is crucial .
this spring , the world health organization released a report that includes a solution similar to that of sanders ’ s bill – the world health organization ’ s solution .
one thing is important : using research and development to meet developing countries ’ health needs ( “ r & d ” in developing countries ) , there is a comprehensive approach to allocating health research in developing countries , including the government ’ s mandate to health research , and the international forum for monitoring the most pressing needs ; and monitoring the world ’ s most pressing needs .
in late may , the international community will begin to implement these ideas at the world health organization ’ s congress , which will be a moment of hope for world health .
reforming the innovation system is not just an economic issue .
in many cases , it is a matter of life and death .
it is therefore vital to decouple r & d incentives from drug prices , encourage greater sharing of scientific knowledge .
for the world , the world health organization ’ s proposal has been a rare opportunity to revamp long-standing and persistent injustices on health inequalities ( and , more broadly , a new model of global public goods that are appropriate to the age of globalization ) .
we must not let this opportunity slip away .
india ’ s 换防
singapore – in august , raghuram rajan was appointed governor of the reserve bank of india .
to some extent , it was a declaration that many expected – after all , rajan was considered the most famous indian economist .
but , on another level , his appointments can be viewed as part of a broader generational shift .
rajan , just 50 , will be the first central banker born after india became a republic in 1950 .
similar changes are occurring in all parts of india , including politics , arts , sports , and social development .
india will also benefit .
although india is one of the world ’ s youngest countries , the average age of the national average is only 26 , but it is only in the old days that some old 老顽固 老顽固 , from politics to art , was the same .
but younger entrants rise across a wide range of sectors , bringing new energy and fresh ideas .
in politics , next year ’ s election is coming to an end , replacing the most powerful candidate for the incumbent incumbent prime minister manmohan singh , and 43 % of gandhi ’ s narendra modi , who is only 43 years old .
whoever wins would be the first prime minister to walk away from the british empire .
艺术界 is one of the first areas of this generational change .
for a long time , indian literature , particularly in english , dominated the world ’ s leading writers and literary recognition .
a few years ago , however , a group of young writers – such as Bhagat Bhagat and Tripathi Tripathi , two previously bankers – changed the rules of the game by writing the rules of the game .
instead of writing for 文学批评 , they began to use more simple language , including india ’ s 土话 .
they also chose a new book for writing : circulating the ancient myth of Tripathi , writing the 三部曲 on the god version of the god god ; Bhagat began writing the lives of india ’ s young generation , the middle class of the middle class .
it is not hard to predict a strong backlash and a mockery of critics .
but people buy their books , their book sales , and be adapted to movies .
as a result , there has been a blowout , with publishers forced to change the entire business strategy .
the same is true of the music industry , which previously was transformed by television programs by a small group of 歌手 and 音乐指导 , which provided a national platform for young music geniuses .
the show shows that the participants – many of them remote towns – provide the opportunity to provide a grey spot , with many people receiving an enviable career opportunities .
partly to this form of new talent , india ’ s music industry entered an extraordinary innovation and expansion .
the output of the american music industry , by contrast , appears to dwarf the surface , owing to the dearth of innovations in the past two decades .
generational change is even in india ’ s most popular sport – cricket .
once upon a time , all of the glory of the sport was concentrated in the aging stars that many had long had their feet but still occupied the national team .
but , just two years after winning the world cup in 2011 , several members of the victorious team had already been in place – and not until recently .
indian society is also changing .
but a new face from business – such as Ashish , Jayant , and Ramesh 和 and Swati Ramanathan – means that the development problem will be addressed at least by social entrepreneurs ’ problems , rather than by ideology ’ s ideology .
ironically , the slow pace of change is business .
the growth of the it sector in the 1990 ’ s seemed to presage rapid and far-reaching change , but commercial families still dominate their dominance .
but hope remains .
entrepreneurs like Teamlease and Sachin Flipkart , a Manish company , and Sachin Flipkart , an online retailer , have moved from fundamental changes to india ’ s business model .
likewise , indian academia may be in a sluggish state of affairs , but public intellectuals such as Bhanu Mehta are emerging from the mainstream .
yes , india ’ s economy has slowed sharply , with the rupee having depreciated sharply , with headlines and protests .
but , behind the dark clouds , a new generation is taking the baton , giving india new ideas and prospects .
absent-minded killers
as a species , humans have a large self-control problem .
we humans are now so 大肆 , hunting , logging , and planting crops around the world that we are actually moving other species from the planet to the planet .
we are extremely desperate to take all of what we can take from the nature of nature and leave little for other creatures .
when the world ’ s governments first pledged to address human-induced global warming in 1992 , they also vowed to prevent the extinction of other species .
the convention on biological diversity , adopted in rio de janeiro , confirms that “ biodiversity is a common concern for humankind . ”
the signatories agreed to conserve biodiversity through saving species and their habitats , and use biological resources ( for example , forests ) to use biological resources .
in 2002 , the treaty ’ s signatories went further , pledging to “ slash the current loss of biodiversity ” by 2010 .
unfortunately , as with so many international conventions , the convention on biological diversity is largely unknown , and has not been promoted without being promoted .
this omission is human tragedy .
few cash inputs are needed , and even in fundamental need , we can preserve the nature of nature and thus protect our own lives and livelihoods .
we are not the only ones who must kill other species , but we are too negligent to do so .
consider several notorious examples .
rich countries like spain , portugal , australia , and new zealand have fishing fleets that are so-called “ bottom trawling . ”
bottom trawling is dragging heavy weight off the ocean at the bottom of the ocean , thereby destroying a large number of proven and endangered marine species in the process .
because bottom trawling is a “ low-cost ” approach to fishing fisheries in some deep waters , some complex and unique ecology , most notably underground underground , is cut off .
one species called 橙连鳍 , which is used for commercial fishing only about 25 years , but is already on the verge of collapse .
similarly , in many parts of the world , tropical rainforest has been cleared to pasture land and food crops .
the result is a massive loss of habitat and the destruction of species , with small economic benefits at the expense of huge social costs .
after being cut off in a rainforest , soils often lose nutrients quickly , unable to feed crops or 让 grasses with nutritious meals .
as a result , new pasture or farmland is quickly abandoned , with no opportunity to return to its unique ecosystems .
bottom trawlers should simply be shut down ; compensation to other activities during the transition to the fishing industry is easy and expensive .
deforestation , on the other hand , is best stopped by economic incentives .
simple restrictions on development land may not work , because farm households and communities will be tempted to avoid the temptation of legal restrictions .
on the other hand , fiscal stimulus may be successful , because cutting down grazing land is not profitable , leaving farmers abandoning payments to protect their land .
many rainforest countries have proposed a 提议 fund in recent years to create a 雨林 fund for small farmers to protect the forests .
a well-designed fund would slow or halt deforestation , protect biodiversity , and reduce carbon dioxide emissions from burning forests .
at the same time , small farmers will receive a steady income , which they can use to improve household wealth , education , and health .
beyond eliminating bottom trawling and creating a global fund for avoiding deforestation , we should designate a global network of marine conservation areas that prohibit fishing , 划船 , pollution , 挖泥 , drilling , drilling , and other harmful activities .
these areas can not only recover species , but also provide 生态效益 areas to the adjacent regions .
we also need a regular scientific process to demonstrate the world ’ s evidence of species prosperity and extinction , just as the process of climate change is .
politicians do not listen to individual scientists , but when hundreds of scientists have spoken , they have to do so .
finally , countries should negotiate a new framework in 2010 to slow human-induced climate change .
climate change , no doubt , is one of the greatest threats to species ’ survival .
when the earth ’ s warming , rainfall , and storm patterns change dramatically , many species will be in a climate area that is no longer supporting it .
some species migrate , but , unless we take decisive action to stop climate change , other species ( for example , polar bears ) risk extinction .
these goals were possible until 2010 .
they are economically affordable , and they will eventually deliver significant net benefits .
most important , it would make us a global promise .
humans will destroy millions of other species and threaten our own future , and to believe that this is too painful .
doing with more
berkeley – in the united states , the goods that produce and deliver us are just three million workers .
everything we extract , cultivate , design , engineer , engineer , and transporting all things – always from a hotel kitchen to a customer in a hotel kitchen – is about 30 % of the us labor force .
the rest of us will spend time on planning and deciding what we make , and to fulfill our personal services , make our personal services , talk about each other , and track what we are doing .
and while we obviously have the capacity to produce much more than we need , we do not seem to be blessed with riches .
one of the paradox of our time is that workers and middle-class households continue to struggle for life in an era of unparalleled plenty .
people in the developed world want to meet their basic needs .
we have a lot of organic carbon to break our calories to us ; we have lots of vitamin and other nutrients to help us maintain health ; we have a lot of housing to keep us dry ; we have a lot of capital to keep us dry ; and we have a lot of entertainment to keep us warm .
we produce all of this , and we need less than two hours out of work home .
in 1930 , when keynes ’ s famous prediction predicted the “ economic problem , ” a struggle for survival could “ be resolved within a century or at least a solution . ”
yet there are no signs that american workers and the middle class are better off than they were 35 years ago .
more strangely , productivity growth does not seem to be accelerating as much as you expect ; in fact , productivity growth has slowed under john 费 , the federal reserve bank of san francisco and 王兵 .
growth prospects are even worse , because innovation hits a wall .
one way to reconcile changes in the job market with our experience of living and those statistics is to note that many things we produce are different from what we have made in the past .
for most of human history , what we produced can not easily be shared or used without permission .
what we previously made is what economists call “ rival ” or “ excludible ” goods .
“ competitive ” refers to two people ’ s inability to use the same product simultaneously .
“ excludible ” refers to the owners of products that can easily prevent others from using it .
these two features make it a great deal of bargaining power for those who control production and distribution , making it ideal for a market economy based on private property .
money naturally goes to places where utility and value – and these flows can easily be tracked in national accounts .
but many things we produce in the information age are neither competitive nor excludible – changing the entire situation .
the manufacture of the information age is difficult to impose ; their distribution is difficult to monetize ; and we lack the tools to track them easily in national accounts .
as a result , people are willing to see a growing gap between the quantity and the growth that the population pays for a given service .
in other words , we produce a much larger amount of production and consumption than economic indicators suggest – and those products are not adequately compensated .
this raises a set of unique problems .
to ensure the benefits of today ’ s and tomorrow ’ s workers , we must redesign our economic system to stimulate these new goods .
in addition to finding a way to record this new wealth , we need to find ways to make product demand work for those creators .
only by finding ways to measure the value of the goods we produce is we to sustain middle-class societies , not from the social tycoon and their services serfs .
giving academia fresh life
cambridge – academic freedom is a precious commodity that is essential to ensure that political or ideological forces do not impede truth .
but this does not mean that intellectuals should hide from academic 掩体 , and to protect ourselves from “ non-experts ” while allowing oneself to be rampant , allowing oneself to focus on other issues that are irrelevant to anyone .
we experts should explain ourselves to the outside world .
first , this means that researchers should work on their findings in ways that are accountable to their own findings , thereby ensuring that the use of public money and education benefits is in the interest of taxpayers .
the obligation of public research also ensures that the public is educated , not just the subject itself , but also to the practical workings of academic research .
academic books and journals often leave the impression that the truth is revealed through a neat , orderly , and logical approach .
but scientific research is far from pure terrain ; indeed , it is more like a battlefield , replete with errors of calculation , failure of trial , and ultimately discarded assumptions .
the road to the truth often goes hand in hand , and people who go to the truth often face intense competition and professional intrigue .
some argue that it is better to hide the facts .
in 2014 , for example , physicists who participated in the effort to participate in the project thought that they had detected 引力波 waves in the early days of the universe .
some of my colleagues fear that the news will affect confidence in other scientific predictions , such as climate change .
but is it really better to conceal the truth about the public than to create a transparent culture of science and scholarship ?
perhaps not .
in fact , it is possible to maintain an honest understanding of the status quo and create more space for innovation , in which a rational public accepts the inevitability of scientific risk , at the expense of research and development .
another way to ensure that academia continues to perform relevant innovations is to break the traditional boundaries of the discipline between disciplines – often born in these disciplines .
to achieve this , universities should upgrade their organizational structures to avoid clear frontiers of departments , in order to create a 艺术 , scientific , humanistic 统一体 .
universities should encourage students to learn more multidisciplinary courses in order to integrate experience and experience into new knowledge systems .
to make the process more sustainable , universities should ensure that the curriculum that it offers can help students adapt to new technologies that require rapid change in the labor market .
this means not only opening the course of innovation now , but also updating a new discoveries and trends in artificial intelligence , big data , and 基因 fields .
for professors , they should become mentors of future leaders in fields like science , technology , art , and humanities , rather than trying to bring students to their own academic mantle .
of course , the latter approach could be effective if the goal is to increase the availability of research programs and to ensure that their own ideas and views can survive .
but that is incompatible with academia ’ s basic mission .
the louder the echo chambers in academia face the consensus , the more it inspires the sense of self-awareness of those who do .
but history shows that , like albert einstein ’ s early career , it has sometimes been better to advance progress .
truth and consensus are not always one thing .
diversity of opinion – meaning diversity of gender , ethnicity , and background – is critical to supporting innovation and progress .
this is why the prize can not be used to strengthen mainstream opinion , instead of using them to encourage independent thinking and reward innovation .
but this does not mean that all views should be considered equal , meaning that other views should be explored , and that they are based on the only reference .
we academia can ’ t continue to look back at ourselves , busy celebrating our privileges and failing to look at the world in a new way .
to defend the free press , we must restore dialogue with the broader public and ensure that the correlation of our work is fully understood – including our own .
the closing of academic mind
london – i would wager that i have been chancellor of more universities than those alive now .
this was partly because of the governor of hong kong , where i was appointed as the city ’ s first university .
i protested that a university should choose the executive ’ s autonomy .
but universities do not allow me to resign easily .
so , for five years , i enjoy the experience of giving tens of thousands of students their degrees , and witnessed what such ceremonies mean for students and their families .
when i returned to britain in 1997 , i was chancellor of newcastle university .
then , in 2003 , i was elected chancellor of the world ’ s greatest learning of one of the world ’ s great institutions .
it is not surprising that i have a strong view of what universities mean , and how to teach , study , or study .
their primary research and teaching function should not be intervened in government ; they should be able to control their academic governance efforts .
if these conditions are not met , i am not convinced that a school can become a world-class institution .
the function of universities is to create a clash of ideas , together with other scholars to test research , and to teach students new knowledge .
freedom of expression is therefore vital for universities , which will enable scholars to maintain common feelings and defend the common understanding and tolerance of any free society .
this , of course , leads authoritarian governments to view universities as dangerous , and seek to contain the university ’ s proposal and answer .
but if any attempt to deny academic freedom is a blow to the university , it is ironic that some of the most ironic attacks on these values come from within universities .
in the united states and the united kingdom , some students and teachers now try to limit argument and debate .
they argue that people simply shouldn ’ t hear the idea that they strongly disagree .
moreover , they have proposed that they should not be able to pass the names of today ’ s political correctness .
thomas jefferson and cecil rhodes include these names .
if the same tests were applied to churchill and washington , what will they do ?
in some of the terrible jargon of a certain culture of culture , the so-called “ 化 ” ( so-called “ 化 ” ) , some have the opportunity to speak out .
some call for a safe space to ensure that any action that violates “ moral ” and “ appropriate ” cognition will not be exposed to students .
this is bound to foster a harmful politics of sacrifice – that is , the creation of an identity with others ( and interests ) .
when i was a student 50 years ago , my main teacher was a well-known marxist historian and former communist party .
the british security services are highly suspicious of him .
he was a great historian and teacher , but now i may encourage me to think of the “ safe space ” that i have violated .
in fact , he has largely expanded my vision , allowing me to face discussion of their ideas in the face of the challenge , more capable of distinguishing between debate and bickering , and more independent .
of course , some ideas , such as racial hatred , gender hostile , or political violence , are anathema to any free society .
freedom of law requires some limits ( in the case of the rule of law under the rule of law ) .
universities should be trusted to exercise their control .
but the existence of debate , discussion , and the presence of particular academic fields is never tolerated .
as the great political philosopher karl popper taught us , the only thing we can not tolerate is intolerance .
this is especially true in universities .
and some american and british academics and students are themselves undermining freedom ; paradoxically , they are free to do so .
moreover , the autonomy and freedoms of china and hong kong are under threat , not from within , but from authoritarian governments .
in hong kong , the university autonomy and freedom of expression that the city ’ s basic law and the 50-year treaty for a 50-year treaty are under threat are under threat .
the reason seems to be that the students who strongly supported the pro-democracy protests in 2014 should be punished .
as a result , hong kong ’ s government was literally stirring up trouble , apparently under orders from the chinese government .
the five book books revealed the secret of chinese leaders ’ secret secrets .
in the mainland , the ccp has launched the largest crackdown on universities following the tiananmen square massacre in 1989 .
china ’ s universities are not allowed to discuss western values , allowing only marxism .
no one told president xi jinping and his politburo colleagues , karl marx , where to go from ?
the question now is that they know little about marx , but they know about lenin .
westerners should be watching closely in china ’ s universities , and what is their true value to support academic , teaching , and college status ?
compare and contrast to students .
do you want universities that are determined by the government ’ s decision to learn safely and discuss ?
do you want to see the idea of “ safe space ” – that is , stopping discussion in the case of others – as an oxymoron in the academic context ?
western students should think too frequently about their counterparts in hong kong and china , who are still seeking freedom that they take – and often abuse freely .
a new brain drain in science
dubai – in december 2013 , the nobel laureate economist peter higgs said that if he were in a position to work in academia today , “ i would not be considered the most efficient . ”
as a result of a breakthrough in 1964 , the higgs believes that no university today would hire him .
academics are familiar with the concept of “ publish or perish . ”
they must increasingly publish their work in peer-reviewed journals to climb the career ladder , keep the job , and keep the research on their institutions .
but what do those studies have to do with the scientists and other scholars who have little to do with the academic journals that can make or destroy academic careers today ?
scholars and organizations that have high rates of publication in well-known journals have a higher score on efficiency scores , and thus more rewarding in their careers and research funding .
but , sadly , the impact of their published field on the field of research can be measurable .
the incentives they face mean that quantity is often more important than quality .
academic journals determine the rankings of scientific research in scientific research , which leads to only hiring and retaining scholars who are efficient .
the resulting double problem raises a deeper problem : academic journals have become too large , and they encourage empirical research .
on the first issue , journals are gradually replacing institutions as the quality of academic outcomes .
scholars in almost any field who want to work in a “ 级 ” study must be published in a section of a 几本 杂志 .
the editorial boards of these journals increasingly favor positivist theoretical work – that is , research based on empirical data analysis .
qualitative research – such as 民族志 , participatory surveys , and case studies – is often framed as just a 适合 or C journals .
scholars who engage in empirical research are a significant advantage , because they can use efficient software and powerful computers to test their assumptions quickly and calculate the effects of different variables .
such jobs can also be reduced , because individual data sets can produce multiple journals .
to be sure , the use of technology , or the use of a more sophisticated software set and more sophisticated software , is a normal phenomenon .
but adoption of this quantitative approach should not be the only measure of measuring scientific excellence and shaping career trajectories .
the positivist trend today is particularly problematic for developing countries , where data sets are scarce , and often poor .
as a result , scientists working in developing countries face a prisoner ’ s dilemma : or study with rich countries that have rich data , or risk doing business in a professional and poorly adapted study .
scholars who have moved from rich countries like europe and north america to underdeveloped countries like the middle east often face such problems .
as researchers at my institution in abu dhabi know , conducting survey data for qualitative research may be feasible ; but the data that are collected from scratch are extremely difficult .
at this year ’ s international conference on science and technology , an african scholar of african soil reported that , in the field he studied , only 5 % of the publication works from african researchers .
but when he studied his research , he found that 50 % of his understanding of african soil came from african researchers , and the results of these researchers are unlikely to be published in international academic journals .
countries where english is not the lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because their academic research is low , but because the science of english-language journals is a charge .
英语 academic journals are simply not subject to the same attention in science .
as a result , many countries can have limited research issues , so they must struggle to keep scientific talent in the country .
this is especially true in the middle east , where governments are working hard to diversify their economies , thereby enabling national economies to grow .
because the empirical research journals in english have reinforced the control of the professional success channels of scientists , developing countries must invest heavily in domestic data infrastructure to keep domestic researchers in a more competitive research place .
but even if – or especially – developing countries do have a serious impact on science .
because academic journals in the world ( most ) from the united states , scientists do not actually migrate as part of the new brain drain , scientists ’ focus on research , questions , and methodologies will turn out to be the 实证主义 study .
closing the financial services gap
kampala – last month , the united kingdom hosted the first-ever global disability summit , helping the world to focus on the needs of the disabled .
the agenda includes a focus on building equitable education , removing discrimination , and opening technology to the disabled – especially poor countries in the global south .
but there is a challenge that is not subject to concern that is often ignored : access to financial services .
this is an opportunity for an effort – not just for the world ’ s one billion disabled people , but also for institutions that should serve them .
increasing access to financial services is good for both business and economic growth .
according to research by barclays , if customers with disabilities can manage their money , economic vulnerability would be reduced , and overall economic health improves .
moreover , the so-called disability market has $ 1 trillion in disposable income , one of the largest potential customers in the world .
so why do most firms reverse the opposite ?
one reason is the lack of awareness .
with people with disabilities often less income than those with disabilities , service providers often lack the incentive to extend support to them .
but , with a growing share of the market ’ s potential , financial institutions are starting to adjust their product lines .
in the process , four issues must be addressed in order to reach customers with access to financial services .
for starters , financial-services companies must work harder to understand current and future clients ’ demand .
with better data , for example , banks in a market would improve access to mobile banking platforms .
in india last year , when it was in india , its employees developed a 语音 system to help a visual range of customers access online accounts .
second , engagement must not be limited to innovation ; it must also be extended to the labor market .
in short , financial-services industries should hire more people who are disabled , investing in 辅助 technologies and alternative and inspirational communication devices .
the need for diversity of employees is particularly acute in the us , where one-fifth of us people have disabilities .
third , it must always be incorporated into discussions about how to expand and strengthen financial independence .
in 2013 , the lloyds banking group established a focus group to examine the impact of dementia on clients ’ behavior , and that exchanges with customers culminated in the 章程 charter .
this innovative document specifies how banks should tailor products to 客户服务 clients .
future proposals should follow this collaborative model to ensure that all levels of decision-making are designed to be designed at all levels .
finally , governments should work to address this problem , following measures like the united kingdom , where the uk will be linked to funding for the disabled .
with the right support , these complex challenges can be made decisively ; for example , in uganda , where i work , the financial services that we use in the united kingdom to expand the disabled in rural areas have been expanded .
our vision is to encourage similar programs elsewhere .
already , 91 countries have signed an alternative protocol protocol on the right to the disabled , with sufficient political support for these projects .
the challenge now is to keep promises to action .
in the coming decades , the world ’ s disabled population will grow as medical advances make people living longer and healthier , healthier , more fulfilling lives .
putting the disabled in financial services and products is one of the best ways to prevent discrimination and promote long-term empowerment .
the full financial inclusion of the “ world ’ s fastest-growing minorities ” is slowly approaching .
the task among activists , advocates , enlightened business leaders , and policymakers is to emphasize successful social and economic interests .
surgery for everyone
boston – when i recently travel to india , i employed a 黄包车 黄包车 , i quickly discovered that the driver ’ s leg was a lame man .
a few weeks ago , the driver had been hit by a car in a busy and busy streets in new delhi .
while he has managed to get the medication from local pharmacies – a dramatic pain that could result from his leg – he has neither the time nor the money to see the surgeon .
this type of tragic calculus is striking .
according to the lancet , roughly 50 billion people – almost 70 % of the world ’ s population – are unable to secure safe , economic , and anesthetic services , and three million people are saddled with prohibitively high health costs .
unsurprisingly , the vast majority of the world ’ s poor : while low-income countries account for nearly 35 % of the global population , they account for just 3.5 % of the population .
financing is the biggest obstacle to universal health coverage – the united nations has been declared globally .
moreover , it may sound paradoxical that the best way to expand access to cover funds is to expand the reach of surgery .
relatively high health problems – such as injuries injuries and injuries caused by pregnancy-related complications – are one of the main causes of death and disability in low- and middle-income countries .
but untreated or untreated treatment , however , requires surgery also hurt economic productivity .
for example , according to the lancet study , failure to improve surgical treatment in developing countries could lead to $ 12.3 trillion of massive loss of economic output by 2030 .
failure to maintain strong surgical capacity may even weaken the economic gains made by middle-income countries , affecting about 2 % of gdp annually .
as a result , when a tough budget choices are faced , governments tend to be more inclined to fight for chronic and infectious diseases , leading to the plight of people like me .
but a growing body of evidence suggests that such views are not accurate .
when 哈佛大学医学院 researchers analyzed surgical interventions in low- and middle-income countries , they found a significant disconnect between economic assumptions and reality .
for example , they calculated that money spent on caesarean sections and joint surgeries would yield higher benefits than money spent on the management of hiv or heart disease .
to be sure , chronic and infectious diseases also need to take our attention ; we can not restructure the entire health system overnight , and we should not abandon those who care for the treatment of 疾病 diseases .
but reforms that focus more attention on the importance of surgery can boost economic productivity and help create a fairer health environment for all .
first , the health ministry and the physician should formally recognize that surgical and anesthetic care are an important component of universal health coverage .
to prove this , health-care agencies should strengthen their collection and analysis of data outcomes , thereby increasing the transparency of data like mortality and morbidity , and strengthen accountability .
the lancet commission ’ s core indicators of “ preparedness ” for surgical treatment , “ implementation ” , and “ 术后 ” can be used to guide decisions about the delivery of services .
second , to focus on risk and guard against costly overruns , countries that are considering universal coverage policies should be incorporated into surgical care programs in public funding programs .
while part of the funding for expanding surgical services can come from taxation , health-care providers should also explore innovative financing methods – the “ social justice model ” that people can pay according to their economic conditions .
finally , in order to streamline resource use and strengthen surgical capacity , hospitals should explore the task of sharing , 将 病例 cases to nurses and physician assistants .
longer-term strategies include investing in medical education to build the ranks of doctors and surgeons .
vibrant and ambitious young people have been driving the strong economic rise in recent decades .
one of the most effective ways to sustain this growth and development is to ensure that the security and cheap care , including surgery , can be included .
while the cost of providing surgical services may be high , the cost of providing a surgical services is no less costly .
polluters must pay
new york – when oil companies and their partners in the united kingdom and its co-authors , swiss drilling , have triggered oil spills in the gulf of mexico in 2010 , the us government not only asked bp companies to take the charge of cleaning up the cost , but also accept criminal penalties for the disaster .
bp has already committed more than $ 20 billion to cleaning up remediation and penalties .
according to a deal last week , bp would pay the largest criminal penalty in the us – $ 45 billion .
the same environmental accident should be used to clean up standards for international companies operating in poor countries , which are often so large that many companies are so large that many companies are at the exclusion of the exemption , and that the environment has little or no responsibility for the environment .
as we enter a new era of sustainable development , impunity should turn to responsibility .
polluters must pay the price , whether in rich or poor countries .
big companies should assume responsibility for their actions .
nigeria has been a case of corporate environmental impunity .
for decades , major oil companies , including shell , exxonmobil , and chevron , have been extracting oil in the niger delta , a fragile ecological environment with freshwater swamp forests , mangroves , 低地 rainforests , and coastal barrier islands .
this fertile habitat supports extraordinary biodiversity – or , in the case of oil companies , to undermine it – and more than three million inhabitants depend on the ecosystem .
twenty years ago , the world ’ s natural protection of the niger delta as a region with vast oceans and coastal and coastal diversity – 树种 , fish , birds , and mammals – makes it a high priority .
yet the alliance also points out that , because the region is rarely protected or protected by the region , its biodiversity is at stake .
a study estimates that these companies have accumulated roughly 100 million barrels of oil over the last 50 years – twice the size of the bp spill .
the data are not accurate : there have been hundreds of thousands of oil spills over the past 50 years – often in the absence of detailed records , and the volume of oil spills is often hidden or even ignored by companies and governments .
indeed , just as bp has suffered a new criminal penalties , exxonmobil reported the oil pipeline leak in the niger delta .
the environmental degradation of the delta is only part of a long list of events : corrupt companies with corrupt governments to take advantage of self-interest .
companies often bribe government officials to obtain oil contracts , lie about output , tax evasion , and evade the environmental damage caused by their operations .
nigeria ’ s government officials have been amazed for decades , owing to decades of bribes in the delta ’ s natural wealth .
shell – the largest foreign operator in the niger delta – the largest foreign operator in niger – has been criticized repeatedly for its behavior and unwillingness to take responsibility .
at the same time , local residents have been impoverished , and are plagued by diseases caused by unsafe air , contaminated drinking water , and pollution .
local offenses have led to the rise of yakuza warfare and the ongoing stream of pipelines , which led to a massive flood of oil spills and caused many people to die – including many innocent 受殃者 .
during the colonial era , it was the official intent of imperialism , from the colonization of colonialism .
in the post-colonial period , such an intention was better disguised .
when oil companies misbehave in nigeria or elsewhere , they will be protected by their home countries .
the us and european countries have warned that the oil-rich countries are not looking for oil .
indeed , the country ’ s biggest bribes in recent years ( estimated at around $ 1.8 million ) was paid by halliburton , which had a complicated relationship with us politics .
( dick cheney was from halliburton ’ s ceo to the us vice president . )
last year , the united nations environment programme reported a remarkable 报告 report , which was a major tribal rod for the niger delta , which once was at the center of the local community ’ s 矛盾 .
the report is unequivocal evidence .
despite the past oil companies ’ commitment to cleaning up the past , muddling through is a bad environment , draining the wealth of wealth and rampant disease .
the united nations environment programme has also offered clear detailed recommendations , including emergency measures to ensure safe drinking water ; eradication campaigns for 树木 trees and soil ; and public health studies , which have a new regulatory framework .
the world ’ s governments have announced their intention to adopt sustainable development goals in june ’ s “ rio+20 summit , ” and to agree to new regulatory frameworks for sustainable development .
the sdgs provide a crucial opportunity for the world to set clear rules for government and corporate behavior .
many large companies , including oil industry , have expressed their willingness to support the sdgs .
eliminating the niger delta would provide an example of accountability for the new era .
shell , chevron , exxonmobil , and other big oil companies should step up to fund the necessary cleanup , ushering in a new and responsible era of responsibility .
nigeria ’ s government , too , is responsible .
what is encouraging is that several nigerian senators have recently sided with the forefront of the effort to strengthen the oil industry .
the oil cleanup in the niger delta provides an ideal opportunity for nigeria , the oil industry , and the international community to demonstrate that a new era has arrived .
from now on , sustainable development can not simply be a slogan , but rather an approach to global governance and the functioning of happiness in a crowded and crowded planet .
saving capitalism from economics 101
the introductory course is often taught in a much reassuring sense : if markets are allowed to play out , good outcomes will be good – such as productivity growth , wage growth , and widespread shared prosperity .
unfortunately , as james guo , i put it in my book economics , in his book economics : the rise of bad economics and inequality , “ introductory economics ” goes far beyond all aspects of the discipline , or even to guide sensible policies .
markets are likely to be good , but they are also vulnerable to a wide range of abuses – some of the leading private-sector workers .
this is not theoretical questions ; it is at the heart of our current policy debates , including the newly proposed legislation .
a central problem is that market incentives reward self-interested private behavior , without considering the interests or costs of society .
we often overlook the spillover effects of our actions on others or “ externalities . ”
the “ primary economics ” textbook , while indeed in some instances of events ( for example , pollution ) has been discussed , and it is widely agreed that , if clean air , clean water , and reducing other pollutants , it requires regulating environmental behavior .
unfortunately , president donald trump ’ s administration is not in this “ general agreement , ” because it is busy rolling back environmental protections in a series of activities .
the new york times reports 76 procedures that are currently underway .
the idea of such a policy directly stems from a few dozen minutes of the “ economics 101 ” : 别去 the market .
in this case , the us has only a greater pollution – including more greenhouse-gas emissions .
there is a deeper problem here .
one of the main assumptions of introductory economics is that firms should maximize their profits , and that is the best of their shareholders and societies .
but the concept of such a “ firm ” is that people who are organized in a particular form are people – not businesses – who are making decisions .
to understand the nature and impact of these decisions , we need to focus on the incentives of corporate executives and board members .
since the 1970 ’ s , those who run firms have increasingly become more focused on paying salaries , stock options , and stock options .
stock values have grown significantly , but most of the richest 10 % are among the richest .
at the same time , median wages have barely increased – much more than during the period since world war ii , when productivity increases and wages grow steadily .
today , businesses are serving the interests of top managers and board members .
investors sometimes gain good benefits , though there are plenty of cases in which insiders take excessive advantage of risky practices or implement other more fraudulent practices to capture their benefits .
the idea that the compensation committee will pay a corresponding salary on the basis of a real showing on some indicators is almost comical .
this is the context in which senator elizabeth warren of massachusetts has proposed new accountable capitalism .
very large firms need federal permits ( rather than a current state permit ) , which would include specific obligations – especially the interests of all companies , including workers .
to make this more meaningful and overall transparency , ordinary ( 非 ) employees should be represented in the boardroom .
this approach works in germany , and germany is a country where workers are long respected .
warren also supports a proposal from john bogle , the founder of vanguard ( a common fund company company ) that requires major corporations to spend only on the overwhelming majority of shareholders and directors .
the basic legal theory behind these proposals is sound , and it is clear in a letter signed by robert 霍克 of cornell law and other distinguished figures .
big firms have been granted significant rights , including the limited liability of individual executives , and the pooling of large amounts of money from a group of 不 ( or corporate sponsors ) .
the first purpose was to enable the private sector to undertake large-scale venture investments that have broader potential consequences , such as building canals and railroads .
in fact , the enforcement of antitrust law has been dramatically reduced in recent years , under both republican and democratic administrations .
warren has proposed a broader rethink .
big companies can still make contributions , but they will need to take responsibility for their actions more transparently .
incentives for senior executives will adjust , and the operation will no longer be confined to fill their pockets .
workers will no longer be treated so badly , and more people may even begin to believe that the american dream of a shared prosperity can be shared .
under the accountable capitalism act , capitalism ’ s legitimacy – private ownership and reliance on market mechanisms – would be strengthened significantly .
as a result , it will be a final exam .
the absence of a centralized euro
cambridge – is the youth unemployment rate reaching 50 % in the eurozone countries , such as spain and greece , to say that it is a generation to sacrifice a single currency for a large number of countries that are unequal to each other .
if the answer is yes , would enlargement of the eurozone ’ s member states really help europe to achieve a clear goal of maximizing economic integration without achieving a politically integrated and comprehensive political unity ?
the good news is that economic research does have some effect on whether europe should use the single currency as a single currency .
the bad news is that , at least for large countries , the currency area is highly unstable , unless its borders and borders are equal .
after all , monetary union requires at least a confederation , with a tax and other policy power that is concentrated in the eurozone ’ s leaders .
what the nobel laureate winner robert mundell famously predicted in 1961 is that national and monetary borders need not overlap .
in his book the american economic review theory , the “ optimal monetary theory theory ” of the currency , mundell argued , the currency area could create a balanced equilibrium in exchange rates as long as workers move freely in the currency area .
the nobel laureate economist dan meade , who attributed an understanding of the importance of labor mobility to labor mobility , also noted that meade ’ s explanation for this view is too strict , especially when european integration appeared .
mundell did not emphasize the financial crisis , but he surmised that labor mobility is more important today than it was in the past .
unsurprisingly , workers are leaving the eurozone crisis , but the target is not necessarily a stronger northern bloc .
indeed , portuguese workers are fleeing to booming old colonies , such as brazil and macau .
irish workers are moving to canada , australia , and the united states .
spanish workers are flocking to romania , which has previously been the main source of agricultural labor in spain .
nonetheless , if liquidity within the eurozone can be similar to that of mundell ’ s ideal , today we will not see the spanish unemployment rate as low as 25 % of germany ’ s unemployment rate .
subsequent researchers began to recognize that successful monetary union would also have other key elements , which are difficult to achieve without deep political integration .
kenen argued in the late 1960 ’ s that if exchange-rate movements were not a shock absorber , the monetary union needs fiscal transfers as a way to share risk .
in normal countries , the national income tax constitutes a huge automatic stabilizer in the region .
in the us , when oil prices rise , incomes in texas and montana rise , which means that the old league will contribute more to the federal budget , thereby helping the rest of the us to escape the quagmire .
of course , there is no large central tax authority in europe , so this important automatic stabilizer is absent .
some european scholars have tried to argue that fiscal transfers like the us are not necessary , because , in theory , they can be achieved through financial markets .
this is a mistake .
kenen was mainly concerned with short-term transfers that smooth out cyclical ups and downs .
but , in a monetary union where income and development disparities vary widely , the time “ short-term ” is likely to be very long .
many germans now rightly feel that any financial transfer system could be permanent , just as italy ’ s northern league of southern italy did the last century .
indeed , for more than 20 years in germany , west germany still has not yet seen the costs of reunification .
later , maurice obstfeld pointed out that , in addition to fiscal transfers , monetary union would also require a clear definition of lender-of-last-resort rule .
otherwise , bank runs and debt panics will be rampant .
obstfeld have imagined a bank bailout scheme , but it is now clear that the state and the state of autonomous regions need the last lender of last resort .
given the premise made by 柯南 and obstfeld , even from mundell ’ s labor mobility , a logical corollary is that the monetary union can not survive without political legitimacy – most likely to be a regional election .
without a coherent european political framework , europe ’ s leaders are unlikely to be able to achieve large-scale transfers across countries .
today , european policymakers often complain that the eurozone would not suffer if the us financial crisis was not .
perhaps they are right .
but the financial system must be able to withstand shocks , even if it is a sharp shock .
europe may never be a “ optimal ” currency area , in any case .
but , without more far-reaching political and economic integration – and perhaps will not be included in the current eurozone member states – it may not be even that decade .
building a “ europe of results ”
brussels – the financial tsunami sweeping the world is a disaster .
but , if handled properly , the crisis will serve the eu and its institutions with respect to people ’ s values .
there is no doubt that the eu has been beset by problems of its own legitimacy and legitimacy , and the problem stems from both sides : people ’ s apathy , which leads to low voter turnout in the european parliament , as well as skepticism about the eu and the euro .
low turnout in some respects reflects popular frustration with the eu ’ s current situation , which they view as trivial , regardless of who wins .
on the other hand , euro-skepticism and the rise of anti-eu populism are directly linked to another idea : the european union , not just a solution to the crisis , is the problem .
so , even if the eu embodies a good desire to ensure that europe is competitive in an increasingly difficult situation , it is still being blamed for the “ globalization of crisis . ”
many are confusing the question of the eu ’ s legitimacy , and that it would increase voter turnout for the european parliament , as long as they talk about how good the eu is and how important it is .
but , in most cases , this path has not worked .
the simplest way to raise voter turnout is to give more power to the european parliament .
but if that is a solution , it is difficult to explain why the european parliament ’ s influence and the power of joint decision-making power after the 1979 elections were expanded , but voter turnout fell sharply in the face of that election .
the problem is that , if the european parliament elections were to attract voters , it must be “ 言之有物 , ” leaving voters aware of their real choice .
and such a “ real ” choice requires the election campaign for all parties in europe to form a common form , including by choosing the outcome of the european commission ’ s presidency by deciding the outcome of elections .
but these conditions have been fulfilled : in 2004 , portugal ’ s prime minister , josé manuel lópez barroso , was appointed as president of the european commission as president of the european parliament , and was appointed as president of the european parliament .
this year ’ s european parliament elections are more concentrated than ever before , and the european council ’ s electoral base is more concentrated .
euro-skepticism , the euroskepticism , can be done only if the eu begins to perform better , and it seems to have been able to keep pace with progress .
that is why the european commission began to emphasize the eu ’ s values , following the fact that the european union ’ s constitutional referendum on four years ago had been tested in france and the netherlands , and the european commission has been emphasizing the idea of “ 欧洲 europe . ”
given the great economic crisis , it is time for the eu to demonstrate its strength as much as possible .
these efforts aim not only to recapture the hearts and minds of europeans , but also to convince them that the eu is indispensable in dealing with current challenges .
europe ’ s citizens recognize that relatively small countries within the eu can no longer cope with these huge challenges .
in ireland , last summer ’ s financial crisis brought about 180 degrees of attitudes toward the european union , and even iceland , which has always been left out of continental europe , is also in the first .
the interests of european countries are so intertwined that it is so difficult to respond to financial-market regulation by pursuing isolated national policies .
the world is changing , and emerging powers like china and india are increasingly playing a more important role , just as they don ’ t recall europe .
so the eu must demonstrate its leadership by addressing a series of efforts in today ’ s world .
for the european people of my own , the economic system is designed not to benefit itself , but to the public .
so far , the economic crisis is rooted in myopic behavior and weak global financial systems , so we must redefine the role of financial markets in financial markets and more macroeconomic 中规 , because we can not afford to allow the financial sector to take profits at their own hands , while the other side pays the losses .
this does not mean that we advocate socialism ; regulation must be better and smarter , not regulation .
here are five keys to recovery :
a “ europe of results ” can be achieved .
the eu ’ s legitimacy is bound to be realized as long as it is clear to the public that these policy recommendations are valid and successful in practice .
a roadmap for education 2030
london – earlier this year , i visited camp camps in jordan , where i met some children and told me what education means for them .
for syria ’ s young people who are forced to leave and lose everything , education matters much more than qualified or scores ; it relies on hope for the future .
and millions of children in the camp and millions of children worldwide are at the center of the international commission on financing for education worldwide .
i joined the committee last september , and it was committed to the fourth , sustainable development goals in the united nations sustainable development goals , to “ ensure inclusive and equitable quality education for all . ”
for too many children , this is a distant goal .
with so many development problems requiring us to focus on , policymakers should bear in mind that education is not just a good thing ; it is also a catalyst for many other development gains .
as the old african proverb goes , educating girls is the whole country .
ensuring high-quality education for children , especially girls , reduces child marriage , child labor , and exploitation .
education also has long-term benefits : in addition to increasing political participation , educated children can bring intellectual capital and pursue entrepreneurial opportunities after they grow up , thereby boosting economic growth .
overcoming the education challenge must begin with two principles of the united nations sustainable development goals .
first , “ all ” means that we must focus on lagging children .
millions of children are out of school because of their families or regions .
according to the un high commissioner for refugees , refugee children are five times more likely to keep out of school than children in the country .
bringing these children to school will require a new approach that goes to the exclusion of their exclusion , to make schools genuinely accessible and important .
the second is “ quality ” : education must be effective , so that children are actually learning .
for 21 million children who can not afford primary school , formal education is out of reach .
but , equally urgent , more than one-third of the primary-school age of primary-school age – 2.5 million people – is not learning .
half of these children are already in school at least four years .
we must eliminate the barriers to learning from classrooms and homes by improving the quality of teaching and classroom conditions , teaching parents how to support children .
upholding these two principles will require increased investment .
last year , unesco estimated that governments must double their education spending as a share of national income to complete 2030 .
this will require increased revenue from tax revenues and stronger and weaker taxes .
donor countries also need to follow through on their aid commitments and targeted aid .
less than a third of education aid , for example , has gone to africa , where the number of out-of-school children accounts for nearly two-thirds of the global population .
moreover , education budgets are often regressive , with almost half of spending in the poorest countries headed to the top 10 % of the population .
increased investment in education requires action in two key areas .
for starters , we need a fair financing , with more spending on early care and development , and in areas where returns are highest .
the budget must focus on the most excluded children , primary education must be free , and can be made to attend school .
we urgently need more transparency and accountability , so that budgets are visible and socially sound .
second , we need to strengthen domestic education systems so that governments regard the government as a guarantor of quality schools for citizens , rather than 自甘堕落 to external development institutions .
in particular , we should promote cooperation between governments and businesses to boost domestic educational education , eliminate illicit capital flows that impede government financing , such as tax evasion and cross-border money laundering .
with these priorities , the education council will issue its advice on september 18 , the un general assembly , and the un secretary-general will be able to act accordingly .
if we can use money and political will to ensure that each child , regardless of its income , location , or social status , is successful , the education council has succeeded .
to this end , our work can be done .
sustaining progress in transition countries
new york – in the world bank ’ s most recent book doing business , half of the east asian and central asian countries that participate in the global ranking are among the top 50 .
as a measure of economic maturity , doing business confirms what many international development circles have long known : the region is rising .
in the last decade , eastern europe and central asia have experienced a strong pattern of progress , relying on ambitious markets and public-sector reforms .
the question now is how to ensure that this progress – which has tripled the size of the middle class – is maintained .
signs of this region ’ s social and economic prosperity are everywhere .
in azerbaijan , income rose sharply in recent decades , with only 5 % of the population living below the poverty line – a proportion close to 50 % in 2002 .
in other countries , estonia ’ s per capita startups are among the third-largest in europe , one of the fastest internet speeds in the world .
but in our view of the region ’ s inevitable prosperity , structural bottlenecks are holding back progress , especially in the western balkans , southern caucasus , and parts of central asia .
to maintain the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , the leaders must address three key issues .
for starters , the region ’ s economies need to become stronger incentives for smarter , more sustainable growth .
fossil-fuel subsidies , for example , should be reconsidered , because they impede investment in energy efficiency and impede the development of renewable technologies .
likewise , public financing of pension and welfare programs needs to be taxed to the labor force , while most of the region is suffering from unemployment ; and the western balkans have few jobs .
job creation is a pressing challenge for all countries .
second , in many countries , the marginalization of civil society is becoming narrower , as a threat to pluralism and accountability .
to prevent conflict , give voice to marginalized groups , tolerance , tolerance , and respect for human rights must be the core elements of governance .
finally , the region must develop a strategy to overcome the changes that automation and artificial intelligence have brought to the labor market .
leaders in some countries , particularly belarus , are seeking to shift economic output from heavy manufacturing to technology startups .
but national authorities can do more to boost resilience .
fortunately , governments , technology companies , civil-society groups , and journalists recognize the salience of these issues and are working together to build more transparent and accountable institutions .
in many countries , heads of government are using the sdgs to guide national planning and legislative reforms .
some central asian countries have even enshrined the sdgs in the development roadmap .
changes like these can help to translate development ambition into action .
in armenia , the government recently established the world ’ s first national sdg innovation laboratory , a joint partnership for “ accelerating ” the sdgs .
the initial research program will focus on increasing the tax collection , improving education systems , and boosting the renewable-energy industry .
meanwhile , moldova ’ s plan has used crowdfunding to raise millions of dollars from the diaspora to finance sustainable development projects .
a renaissance program includes a public plaza and expansion of a public plaza in the capital .
the region ’ s private sector is also actively engaged in sustainable development efforts .
from siemens ’ green heating and air conditioning systems to unilever ’ s “ equal pay ” policies , multinational companies operating in eastern europe and central asia regard sustainability and equality as a viable business model .
in just a few decades , people in eastern europe and central asia have experienced deep political and economic changes .
to capitalize on the development achievements that have already been made , countries and organizations must learn one another , according to local conditions .
this is the main topic for the istanbul development dialogue ( undp ) , which the united nations develops this week , at the united nations development programme .
as the united nations development programme ’ s strategy for 2018-2019 2018 points out , cooperation is a key component of sustainable development strategies .
if a country ’ s measure can be calculated by doing business in its borders , eastern europe and central asia have a bright future .
the region ’ s recent progress will not be accompanied by strong leadership that has changed the region ’ s economic , modern institutions .
the achilles ’ heel of trumponomics
new haven – donald trump ’ s economic strategy has serious shortcomings .
this will further crowd out national saving , leading to an already large widening trade gap .
this dynamic exposes the achilles ’ heel of trumponomics : blatant protectionism and protectionism and trade deficits that sustain us economic growth .
trump ’ s policies will not gain a strong and sound economy from their predecessors .
since the great recession , the pace of recovery has been only half the normal cyclical rebound – and the anemic pace of recovery is particularly disconcerting , given the magnitude of the contraction in 2008-2009 .
and saving , as the seed seed of the future , remains severely underfunded .
in 2006 , the so-called net national saving rate – the sum of 企业 firms , households , and governments combined – was just 2.4 % of national income .
although this has been an improvement in relative negative saving positions between 2008 and 2011 , it remains far from the 6.3 % average of the final three decades of the twentieth century .
this is important because it explains the pernicious trade deficits that trump continues to rail against .
lacking in saving and wanting to grow , the us must import surplus saving from abroad .
and the only way to attract this foreign capital is through massive current-account and trade deficits .
the numbers explain everything : since 2000 , the current-account deficit has widened to 3.8 % of gdp – nearly four times the gap between 1970 and 1999 .
similarly , net export deficits – the broadest measure of a country ’ s trade imbalance – have been 4 % of gdp since 2000 , compared to 1.1 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century .
trumponomics has the tendency to reverse the causality .
trumponomics has focused on the specific sources of trade deficits , such as china and mexico , but neglecting these bilateral deficits only a symptom of a deeper us saving problem .
assuming that the us is closing trade with china and mexico by imposing tariffs and other protectionist measures , including the renegotiation of nafta and the construction of border walls in mexico , it is the first and fourth largest source of trade deficits .
this will not solve america ’ s longstanding saving shortfall , which will redistribute the trade deficit from china and mexico to other countries – possibly a more costly producer .
as a result , the functional equivalent is to raise taxes on beleaguered middle-class families .
in short , multilateral issues can not be solved through bilateral approaches .
in 2015 , the us ran trade deficits with 101 countries – a multilateral problem emanating from a saving shortfall that can not be solved by “ treatment ” against specific countries .
this is not to say that america ’ s trading partners can get rid of unfair practices .
but it does mean that if the us does not start saving again , the hope of resolving the long-standing trade deficit – and the associated domestic job losses that are attributable to these imbalances – is limited .
alas , the situation becomes more complicated .
in the coming years , trumponomics may worsen america ’ s saving shortfall .
analysis by the tax policy center , the tax foundation , and moody ’ s analysis suggests that the federal budget deficit will rise to at least 7 % of gdp over the next decade , according to trump ’ s economic plan .
trump ’ s senior economic advisers , peter navarro and 布尔 ross , argue that these estimates have shortcomings , because they have failed to account for the “ surprise windfall ” from regulatory and energy reforms and the sharp contraction of the us trade deficit .
indeed , the 分析 analysis suggests that fully 73 % of the income windfall that trump ’ s trumponomics has facilitated is attributable to a significant improvement in overall trade balance in the decade ahead .
but , as 如上 文所 emphasized , this prospect is highly dubious if national saving does not rise .
creative accounting – the long-term hallmark of supply-side economics – is not so sure .
this brings us to the most glaring twist in trumponomics .
even the most conservative federal budget deficit estimates that a depressed net national saving rate could slip back into negative territory sometime in 2019 .
this will create new pressure on the current-account and trade deficits , making it difficult to reverse employment and income losses – and politicians immediately blame it for america ’ s trading partners .
ironically , in the coming period of negative saving , the us will increasingly depend on surplus saving from abroad .
if the trump administration targets the main foreign lenders – namely , china – its strategy could quickly backfire .
at least america ’ s borrowing conditions will be adversely affected ; that may mean higher interest rates – signs that the evidence is already apparent – that the dollar will suffer downward pressure .
of course , the worst-case scenario is a global trade war .
protectionism , inadequate saving , and deficit spending create a profoundly toxic combination .
under trumponomics , it will be difficult to make america great again .
a clarion call for emerging markets
ithaca – as we get into 2012 , we should consider how a decade of strong economic growth in emerging markets has triggered a political transition of last year .
from dramatic events in the middle east , the support of the anti-corruption movement in india , with the support of the anti-corruption movement in india , sends a clear signal to leaders in emerging markets that growth is not enough .
ignoring this message will be paid .
in the first decade of the twenty-first century , emerging-market economies grew steadily , and even the global financial crisis did not stop them .
but the economic benefits of corruption are rampant , and corruption has destabilized the deep reforms needed to sustain growth momentum .
corruption takes many forms , but , in emerging markets , a confluence of factors are forming a cancer that eventually upended the existing system .
in these countries , unbridled low-level corruption has enraged the poor ; indeed , it has left poor people unable to acquire social services and basic government functions that they depend on .
another corruption would be massive kickbacks from large-scale projects .
in india , for example , with supply in supply in supply , the sale was rigged , and the government would lose up to $ 30-40 billion in revenue .
for ordinary people , massive corruption is not necessarily visible , because , despite the sheer number of people involved , the cost is not as direct as it is in the case of corrupt graft .
but , as rapid growth exacerbates inequality , people ’ s perception of such large-scale corruption has changed .
in countries like china and india , rapid economic growth has lifted many people out of poverty .
but the benefits of globalization and rapid growth are not evenly distributed , and the rich have become richer , while most people remain impoverished .
the problem with rising income inequality is far from confined to emerging markets , but open corruption and widespread inequality have created a delicate and delicate threat to the reforms needed to boost and strengthen economic interests .
in many emerging-market countries , the lack of political freedom is fueling the fire .
corruption , injustice , and political repression have created enormous pressure , and there is no institutional mechanism for such pressure .
but political freedom is no panacea .
in democratic countries such as india , politically well-connected benefit from a flawed growth benefit .
in each election cycle , the people have an opportunity to “ throw the rascals out ” to some extent , but not to root out the problem .
it is difficult to predict what triggers popular protests , but economic factors are critical .
as urban populations grow , reducing their pressure will become increasingly difficult .
some countries ’ response to recent events was the combination of political repression , information blockades , or a combination of authoritarian measures .
china , for example , blocked media coverage of egyptian protests .
the arab spring , however , showed the fragility of repressive political regimes , and the legitimacy of the rule by restricting information flows can not work .
the main lesson for emerging-market countries is that focusing on gdp growth may ultimately undermine economic and political stability .
despite rapid increases in national income , they are vulnerable to popular opposition if leaders can not distribute economic growth fairly .
tackling corruption is essential to improving long-term growth and maintaining social stability .
these countries need to take steps to help lift the poor out of poverty traps , and to improve their economic welfare opportunities .
such measures include broadening financial markets , enabling more people to acquire credit and investment ; strengthen social safety nets to protect the economy ; and increase access to education and quality .
these lessons are also true for advanced economies , where the advanced economies are also suffering from rising inequality and a corrupt pattern of corruption .
but , for rich countries , restoring decent economic growth is needed .
emerging markets are facing a golden opportunity to make economic gains , lock in growth , and stability through deep problems like corruption .
events last year suggest that the costs of inaction are high .
the only climate deal is not enough
amsterdam – it ’ s the hard time .
at the copenhagen climate conference , the world ’ s leaders are discussing our future .
all indications are that they are unlikely to sign a global climate treaty , different visions , different political coalitions , and so many different political coalitions .
during the conference , politicians , civil servants , and other participants have attacked each other with each other .
these figures include the criteria for different emission reductions , which should be invested , and the increase in the temperature increase for the planet , and how long we await .
these are important topics , but they alone are not enough .
we should find new ways to address climate problems .
only then can the burden of social responsibility be shared , and the climate issue has reached a pivotal moment , with all countries and citizens joining – together with what we do to our planet .
first , we should accept that the united nations millennium declaration , which was adopted in september 2000 , can not be found in the common development goals .
the world ’ s charter , such as the former soviet president mikhail gorbachev and 旺加 , was a case in point .
the climate issue is not irrelevant .
in the coming decades , some low-lying countries , such as the netherlands , will invest billions of dollars to deal with rising sea levels for years to come .
for some other countries , floods are already flooding the levees .
they can not cope with rising sea levels , persistent droughts and devastating storms , and these countries are often not industrialized countries , who are innocent victims of climate problems .
add to that other major initiatives , such as improvements in infrastructure .
it is time for women to do their part .
women are often first found in these natural problems , and they are capable of assuming leadership roles and finding solutions to human survival .
in short , the future of the world should be a sustainable , sustainable development .
this is the task of all of us , and parochial patriotism and the thinking of a national union have no market .
for societies to achieve a low-carbon , sustainable development , we need great effort .
this calls for a shared moral foundation .
to avoid one-sided understanding , finding a comprehensive approach to all issues is to be addressed .
climate problems are not just political leaders .
in copenhagen , not only at the national level , but also the business community , the civil society , and the civil society should be taken together to save our planet , not just by scientific research , but about ethical issues .
communist party without communism
princeton – russia ’ s president vladimir putin , who inherited the presidency after he was supposed to succeed in democratic elections next march , indicates that russia ’ s leaders do not have any change .
it seems increasingly likely that we will see the same names in the coming decades , just as it did under leonid brezhnev .
the chief ideology of putin ’ s regime , 巴普 说 , said that russia ’ s current system is all but perfect at all .
indeed , it seems that everyone in the kremlin is reading the nazis ’ 著作 book for schmitt , who taught that the enemy was the central mission of politics .
in the spirit of schmitt , putin ’ s men have devised a liberal party that is the enemy of the right .
the party ’ s public gatherings were divided by armed police ; their leaders were arrested and beaten ; putin called his supporters “ 小狼 . ”
surprisingly , this aggressive move occurred without visible risks .
putin ’ s approval ratings are rising like oil prices .
his appointees control all key sectors , from gazprom to the central electoral committee .
in recent years , while violence and subsidies have calmed the chechen insurgency , arrests and expulsions of several of the funds ’ primary opponents , and the recent massive “ social investment ” that has overseen the country , the investment has been bought by the russian people , with no compelling force to challenge putin ’ s people .
but their regime is in crisis , and they know it .
the russian economy is now more dependent on gas and oil than ever before .
military reform has been reversed .
despite rising incomes , russians ’ education and health are less than putin ’ s , and they die prematurely .
russia ’ s participation in world affairs is also fraught with hostility and corruption .
the state ’ s monopoly has gone underground .
the bureaucracy , with low levels of education , has more money to bribe bureaucratic bureaucrats , which can not govern the country .
russia is messy , and its rulers know it .
so they panic .
his time kgb officers saw the collapse of the communist party and all governmental bodies that “ guided and controlled ” the party , including the kgb .
under putin , security forces retaliate .
their people have become powerful , arrogant , and very rich .
they have also become 不停 .
in 2004 , general cherkesov , who served as putin ’ s representative of russia ’ s ambassador to russia , published a paper to portray the kgb as the only clean power in a corrupt state .
this article is set to determine the nature of putin ’ s second term .
in october 2007 , cherkesov ( now the most obscure and powerful confederation of drug management ) published another paper to denounce his colleagues ’ depravity .
earlier , generals in the fsb , with their struggle , arrested cherkesov ’ s deputy for “ illegal eavesdropping . ”
as cherkesov has publicly said , he failed to recognize putin ’ s failure by putting russia ’ s government on the defensive of the security services .
cherkesov ’ s deputy stayed in prison .
most believe that putin is unable to intervene in his defense .
in the absence of communist control , these security officials betrayed their 企业伦理 , participating in transactions , and impose power when they are not well traded .
this is evident in ordinary russians ; cherkesov revealed the situation in putin ’ s circles .
what is the time to do when the old kgb 人马 自相残杀 自相残杀 ?
cherkesov ’ s case exemplifies putin ’ s nightmare .
but if your instincts betray you , you get into deeper instinct .
now that putin ’ s man has abandoned his predecessor ’ s neoliberal views , and the former kgb ’ s 结党营私 结党营私 , the task is to create an ubiquitous party that controls the security services , government , business , and more .
this party would be a centralized centralized system of personal leadership , and has reduced the state to a legal fiction .
its managers 灌输 nationalism , believing that it was all-powerful , rather than 专业 and corporatism .
boris yeltsin forbade political parties in the state of state control .
putin ’ s lawyers will reverse this decision , and the party could have organized or commissions by any factory , company , military unit , universities , and so on .
members of the party will guide and unify the 荒凉 country with charisma and party discipline .
that is putin ’ s plan .
putin , the only kgb man who ruled russia , is like former soviet leader yuri 罗波夫 .
as in the soviet era , state and government officials will be transformed into the party ’ s code of propaganda , as president medvedev did under president vladimir putin .
and , of course , the general secretary did not limit his term .
finally , putin has the history of what is left to him , no belief that only a faction yearning to consolidate the power of the powerful .
lenin and 托 needed a party to turn their ideology into reality ; putin and medvedev are devising an ideology to consolidate their party .
this is a bizarre ideology .
it will put all those who do work – businessmen , warriors , journalists , and others – to the political parties , whose only work is to find enemies .
a confederal solution for palestine
london – in new york last month , i happened to be with israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu in a hotel .
to take care of netanyahu ’ s security needs , the hotel was almost a fortress , with several similarities to israel itself .
netanyahu is in the us for another round of middle east peace talks .
the us offered various sweeteners to induce israel to freeze the west bank settlements .
israel refused to cooperate , and negotiations are deadlocked .
what , then , is the prospect of a negotiated peace between the two peoples of the two peoples who have called for a territorial request ?
the answer is only one : the prospects for negotiations are dim .
all of the peace efforts that followed the 1993 oslo accords are premised on the “ two-state solution , ” with israel returning the occupied territories to the palestinian state , and the palestinian state should be happy to live in the country ’ s sovereignty .
a negotiated “ land for peace ” is still the west ’ s mainstream theory .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in a recent speech , “ for both peoples ” is the basis for achieving “ justice , lasting , and comprehensive peace . ”
at the same time , the two main actors in the middle east conflict , palestine and israel , are constantly seeking unilateral solutions to the “ peace process . ”
palestinians continue to insist on the international community ’ s status as a state of statehood , while israel is intent on occupying palestine through settlements policy .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas has said that if the latest talks fail , he will urge the un to recognize the palestinian state in 1967 .
brazil and argentina recognized “ palestine ” this month , and are expected to follow a string of latin american countries .
abbas will now focus on europe and will demand turkey ’ s role as a go-between .
the aim is to use international recognition of an independent palestinian state to pressure the us to change its policy of almost unconditional support .
security concerns remain israel ’ s main concern .
the mainstream western theory remains that israel ’ s long-term security depends on the success of the “ peace process . ”
in fact , israel has done much to secure the future .
the “ safe wall ” of “ safe walls ” that is most concerned is that this approach effectively alleviates the violence .
but , as the hawks who now control israeli politics , israel ’ s security is directly dependent on defense , and thus the expansion of settlements .
the hawks argue that the trifecta of survival plans to advance the united states ’ military and economic support , and to build a defensive border with the united states through strategic settlement programs , and the separation of the palestinian west bank into a 政权 regime , can not be fought against israel ’ s isolation .
so , while abbas ’ s international support for the palestinian state is seeking to create a “ fait accompli , ” israel , along with israel , is a way to cut off , and the desire to create a palestinian state can not be achieved .
the ideal alternative to the two strategies is not to pursue a federal state with two countries , but to establish a political and political system .
indeed , the two-state solution has never been realized .
limited land resources have never been able to satisfy strongly .
and , over time , the withdrawal of israeli settlers from the west bank and east jerusalem from the west bank and east jerusalem has been unattainable .
this is “ the reality that we have to face , ” breaking the hope of palestinian statehood , and the israelis ’ dream of a purely jewish state is as inevitable as possible .
moreover , in terms of economic terms , land for peace is never a solution .
if the loss of the palestinians ’ losses is truly the principle of addressing the problem , it would always be better to address the israeli-palestinian conflict than the poor countries that were founded on foreign aid .
most people have forgotten that the paris agreement , signed in april 1994 , established a customs union between israel and the occupied territories , and stipulates the joint economic council ’ s decision to adjudicate trade disputes .
free movement of goods , labor , and money could largely drive the development of palestinian gdp .
this could also serve as a basis for creating a confederal state , with the west bank settlers producing and paying taxes that help the federal system .
but such a rosy prospect is being relentlessly undermined by the violence that protects the jewish state and create a palestinian state .
the prevailing view remains that only the two-state solution will ensure the security needed for the economic recovery in the palestinian territories .
but we must acknowledge that unilateral israeli policy , backed by the us , can create the interim conditions for peaceful development , while economic development can disarming palestinian nationalism .
the palestinian cause is not even paramount in the arab world , so netanyahu ’ s deep defense strategy is more promising than abbas ’ s chances of gaining international recognition .
netanyahu ’ s plan is not moral .
but this does not mean that the plan won ’ t be at least a short-term effect .
a confederation for kosovo
time is running out for kosovo .
if a un resolution resolution is not forthcoming in early december , the province ’ s majority albanian majority is likely to declare independence unilaterally .
that would be a catastrophic move .
russia is furious , because it fears that kosovo , regardless of whether it is divided , will further trigger an independent movement within the former soviet empire .
serbia would even be more vocal .
塞尔维亚 洛 , serbia ’ s state minister in kosovo , has said that his country might use force to defend his sovereignty .
even if the government remains hesitant on this issue , extremist nationalist groups could force the army to send the army , which is currently weak in kosovo ( only 40 “ military observers ” and 2116 police ) , but there are likely to be any armed conflict in the presence of dozens of nato troops there .
after eight years of international regulation , kosovo ’ s albanian majority has taken the form of freedom , and is eager for full independence .
but serbia claims that the province has been an important part of its history and cultural tradition .
moreover , independence can not be accepted by serbia ’ s public , which has already watched as a little more than a narrow “ serbia , ” and it has lately been a 黑山共和国 .
serbia is ready to give kosovo only “ enhanced autonomy , ” and parts of the international agreement .
yet , while both sides seem unlikely to be reconciled , it is not too late .
but this can be achieved only by reviving and updating the old mechanisms of an international community : a confederation of countries .
through a binding un security council resolution , kosovo could be granted full and exclusive authority to its citizens and territory , as well as limited authority on the international level .
it can be allowed to sign trade agreements and agreements with individuals ( for example , allowing foreigners to enter and operate within their borders , or extradition ) , and to seek to join the un ( which does not require full sovereignty and independence ) .
kosovo will thus gain some important external symbols of statehood .
as a result , kosovo and serbia will form two different international actors , bound together by a confederation that combines it with a common decision-making body .
of course , the alliance is not symmetrical , because the serbian government ’ s sovereignty over other parts of serbia will not be affected and limited , and the kosovo government ’ s “ sovereignty ” vis-à-vis kosovo would be constrained .
in order to avoid the dominance of either side of the two parties , the common decision-making body will be represented by four representatives from serbia , representatives from kosovo , and three representatives from the eu , which would require support from the eu .
moreover , the eu should establish a small but effective military force , for example , to support the decisions made by the common decision-making body .
as with any compromise , the parties involved in this arrangement would have a downside .
serbia will save face , and will continue to hold a voice on the major issues concerning kosovo , including kosovo ’ s ethnic minorities .
kosovo would gain limited independence , and its status will rise from a province of a sovereign state to an international actor capable of signing a deal with other countries , even joining the un .
by bringing stability to a highly volatile region , the eu would benefit from it .
as a result , the eu will regulate kosovo , and prevent any dispute that might lead to riots .
the final benefit of this solution is that it will be temporary .
in history , the confederacy has turned into federal ( as occurred in the united states , germany , and switzerland ) or , driven by forces , divided ( like the arab spring in 1958 , which divided egypt and syria three years later ) .
the confederation i advocate would thus be a intermediate step ( lasting 5-10 years ) , in which the last kosovo could be fully independent .
delaying a final solution in this way could provide a moment to validate kosovo ’ s membership in the eu , thereby providing a moment of “ sovereign power ” with other independent states , as well as a calming demand for the country ’ s dangerous construction .
the calculus of global warming
the british government recently issued the most comprehensive report on the economic costs and risks of global warming , and has proposed measures that would reduce greenhouse-gas emissions , and to avoid some of the worst consequences .
the report ’ s chief economist in the world bank , nicholas stern , the world bank ’ s leader , made it clear that the key is not whether we can afford to meet global warming , but whether we can afford the consequences of inaction .
the report ’ s proposed cost amounts to just 1 % of annual consumption , but it would cost the world five times more risk .
the cost of global warming is higher than in earlier research , because it will increasingly reflect new evidence , such as global warming , which is a highly complex and non-linear process that is more likely than we previously thought .
indeed , the study could actually underestimate the costs : for example , climate change , for example , will cause a greater variability in weather , and that the change in the gulf of mexico ’ s wall has disappeared – a problem that is particularly worrisome in europe .
when i took office in 1995 on the “ intergovernmental panel on climate change , ” the scientific body of scientific research on global warming has shown that the concentration of greenhouse gases has increased significantly in the atmosphere since the beginning of the industrial revolution .
the increase in concentrations of greenhouse gases will have a strong impact on climate and sea levels , but few recognize that the arctic ice cap is melting at the current rate .
but there is still some suggestion that , because there is no serious global warming , we should do little or nothing .
in my view , uncertainty should make us act more resolutely today .
as my scientist friend put it : if you drive your car in a mountain of water , to a cliff , and the car ’ s brakes are likely to be problematic , should you be rushing to become more cautious or more likely ?
global warming is a rare concern for the scientific community .
scientists have glimpsed the future .
as the stern report points out , as in many cases , poor countries are the most vulnerable .
by the end of the century , one-third of bangladesh will be submerged .
the maldives and some pacific island states will disappear : the twenty-first century of our twenty-first century .
pollution is a huge global externality .
developed countries may not be deliberately damaging bangladesh and those that are disappearing , but even war is not so destructive .
the best way to deal with a global externality is through a globally agreed tax rate .
this does not mean the increase in overall taxes , but only in a country that replaces some of the existing taxes in a 污染 ( carbon ) tax .
a tax on pollution like pollution makes more sense than good things like saving and work .
despite president george w. bush ’ s claims that the market works , he has called for voluntary action .
but the more sensible approach is the power of the market – the power of incentives – not to rely on goodwill , especially on oil companies that regard the impact of maximizing interests as the sole objective of maximizing interests .
exxon ’ s estimate of some so-called “ think tanks ” has been provided to weaken confidence in the science of global warming , just as the tobacco industry supports the “ research ” link between smoking and cancer .
some companies seem to be celebrating the melting of the polar ice cap , because it would reduce their cost in the arctic ocean .
the good news is that there are many solutions that can be reduced by improved incentives ( greenhouse gases ) , one of which would be to eliminate subsidies for inefficient use of energy .
the us subsidizes ethanol for ethanol products , while imposing tariffs on ethanol in sugar , hidden by massive subsidies to oil and gas .
most important , the price signals that show the real cost of energy derived from fossil fuels encourage innovation and conservation .
small changes in women ’ s behavior can make a difference if millions of people practice it .
for example , the color of the color of homes in a warmer region to reflect sunlight , or trees around home trees can make a lot of savings in energy neutrality .
we should treasure it only one planet .
global warming is a risk that we can no longer afford to ignore .
the big news for big issues
london – as my father ’ s dream of my father , the united states president barack obama ’ s fictional 文笔 narrative , many of us will be surprised by his calm and intellectual approach .
but that is not to say that obama is a powerless .
he can do so regularly and often .
but obama rarely seems to be acting with hidden emotions or instinctive prejudices .
sooner or later , all things will come under obama ’ s pragmatism and review .
回想到 hillary clinton , a famous television advertisement released by the democratic presidential primary , would not hesitate to assume that obama is a president who had been expected to be treated with the international crisis in late march .
he would not have been afraid , but he would be prepared to think twice .
as a result , i suspect that obama will not face the criticism of the criticism that he faces when his first term is coming to an end , though he is certain to frustration with the fall of democratic candidates held by senator john f. kennedy .
a year ago , the president was praised for excessive praise ; now , 12 months later , he has the natural right to criticize naturally .
obama inherited a terrible legacy – a recession , fiscal collapse , iraq , and afghanistan .
he has also failed to address all of these problems , but , apart from allowing himself to allow israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu to be at the mercy of the israeli prime minister , and the belief that he is building a new bilateral relationship with china , there seems to be no leak .
but the change has changed .
the american left criticizes obama for not having a full economic recovery .
the right angrily declares that he is a 共党 , because he has sought to benefit every american .
but what about the president who thinks of this long process with peace ?
one problem , obama will surely consider , is that that is a long shadow over the world .
in the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s , world peace was based on the equilibrium between the us and the soviet union .
the main strategic assessment of the berlin wall on both sides of the wall is that if either side takes a step , all of us will be killed in a nuclear holocaust .
in the 人口 population of the time , it was called “ mutually assured destruction ” ( “ mutually destructive principles ” ) , as the acronym called “ 毁灭 . ”
we have forgotten those days .
yet there are still two million nuclear warheads on the planet , with the devastating equivalent of 150,000 hiroshima bombs .
terrorist groups certainly want to get out of their hands .
the world has eight nuclear weapons states – the us , russia , the united kingdom , france , and pakistan – and israel .
north korea may also have a few bombs , and many believe that iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons .
other countries with other civilian nuclear technologies also have the potential to bomb the bomb , and they are planning to double the number of nuclear reactors in the next 20 years .
the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , contained in the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , has become obsolete .
this will be a conference in may to review and review the treaty .
obama clearly understands that the treaty must be strengthened , and it will be difficult to prevent those countries with civil nuclear technology from turning themselves into weapons of murder .
but obama also recognizes that if the existing nuclear powers want other countries to accept stricter controls , they must cut their arsenals .
and that is largely the case with the us and russia , which possess 95 % of the world ’ s nuclear warheads .
moreover , if the united states is the comprehensive test ban treaty , it would be a powerful example .
the nuclear issue is one of many of obama ’ s agenda .
and how to deal with it will even determine the assessment of his presidency .
iran ’ s problems were also addressed before formal talks were conducted .
as iran ’ s secret nuclear facilities and reactors continue to emerge , the sentiment of distrust is growing , and distrust of distrust is growing .
on this issue , the us , the european union , and russia are working hard to engage with iran , but have failed to do so .
china , for its part , seems to be considering an energy relationship with the country that wants to prevent effective sanctions against iran .
how china handles this will profoundly affect its image in the us and europe .
this is the main question that obama needs in the coming years .
if handled properly , he will dismiss these criticisms in the short term .
fortunately , he is smart enough to realize this .
munich – for some time , it seems that the european central bank ’ s €1 trillion credit to recapitalize european banking systems to boost liquidity has calmed financial markets .
but now the interest rates on italian and spanish debt are rising again , approaching 6 % .
of course , this may not be a tipping point for debt burdens .
after all , interest rates in southern europe were above 10 % before the euro ’ s introduction .
even germany , then , had to pay 6 % of its interest on its creditors .
nonetheless , markets clearly show that doubts about whether spain and italy are willing to bear the debt burden are growing .
the main problem is that spain , its public and private debt ratio more than greece , portugal , ireland , and italy combined , has reached nearly 100 % of gdp ( and , indeed , 93 % ) , as if greece does .
a quarter of spain ’ s population and half of young people do not work , indicating that the housing bubble caused by cheap euro credit caused the country to lose competitiveness .
the current-account deficit stands at 3 % of gdp , and that is a recipe for a sharp decline in imports ; and economic contraction will cause spain to leave the budget deficit again .
moreover , in february , spain ’ s debt in the european central bank ’ s “ target ” resolution system ( $ 72 billion ) of the european central bank ’ s “ target ” for the european central bank has increased by €55 billion ( $ 72 billion ) , owing to the need for compensation .
since july 2011 , spain ’ s “ target ” system has increased the 欧元 billion .
capital is flowing into full flight , more than it was in 2008-2010 .
since the start of the crisis ( 2008 ) , the cumulative sum of spain ’ s entire account has been financed by printing money .
italy is better off , and the current-account balance has fluctuated between 2 % and 3 % of gdp over the last decade .
in february , italy ’ s “ target ” system increased the debt of 76 billion , and the total figure since july 2011 was 欧元 billion .
italy also faces capital depletion ; indeed , investors ’ flight has accelerated the ecb ’ s liquidity injections .
now , it seems clear that the ecb itself is a source of large capital flight from countries such as spain and italy , because the cheap credit that it provides drove away private capital .
the purpose of the ecb ’ s actions was to restore confidence and revive the inter-bank market .
but this has not been achieved , despite its massive funding .
indeed , france now seems to be shaken up .
from july 2011 to january 2012 , capital fled from france , the country ’ s “ target ” system increased by 欧元 billion .
france ’ s competitiveness was also undermined by cheap credit in the euro years .
according to a recent study by goldman sachs , the french price level must fall by 20 % – the real depreciation – to enable france to regain competitiveness within the eurozone .
italy must depreciate by 10-15 % , and spain must depreciate by about 20 % .
greece and portugal need to depreciate their currencies for 30 % and 35 % , respectively , but spain and italy are high enough to worry about the eurozone ’ s future .
these imbalances can be eliminated only by a huge effort , and they must accept a decade-long stagnation .
for greece and portugal , staying in the eurozone would be a 活受罪 .
for many , the answer is to provide more cheap credit to the eurozone ’ s troubled southern countries through the public channels , eurobonds , or the european central bank .
but this is unfair to savers and taxpayers in the country , which provided capital to southern europe , and that they will not be voluntarily accepted .
if the eurozone collapses , no one knows how much value this claims would be .
the biggest problem , however , is that the continuing injection of cheap credit eventually leads to prolonged weakness ( if the european economic collapse ) , because the eurozone would become a central management system , with investment in control of the country .
such a system can not function , because it deprives capital markets of the status of the system as a major steering mechanism .
it is only endless fatigue : an elegant european politician would opt for a black way .
a crisis , two interpretations
chicago – the world ’ s advanced democracies are mired in crisis , with two competing voices at stake and remedies .
the first well-known diagnosis is that demand is collapsed because of high debt accumulated before the crisis .
households that are most prone to spending ( and national ) can no longer borrow .
to revive growth , other families and countries must be encouraged to spend – and governments that still borrow to borrow should expand deficits , while low interest rates should stop saving .
such an argument , according to this view , is a virtue , at least in the short term .
in the medium term , as long as growth can be boosted , debt can be paid off , and the financial sector is depressed , so that it will not create another crisis in the world .
this view is standard keynesian , and that the argument is that a correction in the debt crisis has been supported by most government officials , central banks , and wall street economists .
the virtue is that it is clear to policymakers that the direction of action is clear , and the expected return on the political cycle .
unfortunately , despite the stimulus , growth remains weak , and , in the short run , it is increasingly difficult to find a new source of additional spending .
so people ’ s attention began to shift to the second point of view that the advanced economies ’ basic ability to grow through useful things has been sustained for decades , characterized by the use of debt to prop up spending .
more such spending can not deliver sustainable growth for these countries .
instead , they must improve the environment for growth .
the second point of view begins with the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s , when rapid growth in the west and japan followed .
several factors – including the revival of post-war reconstruction , the protectionist revival of the 1930 ’ s , and new technologies for electricity , electricity , transportation , and cross-border communications – have fueled long-term prosperity .
but , as tyler cowen has argued in his book great stagnation , these “ low-hanging fruit ” has become increasingly difficult to boost growth since the 1970s .
at the same time , 沃尔夫冈 斯特里 wrote in the new left-wing review that democratic governments faced a seemingly rosy outlook for innovation and growth in the 1960s , and thus entered the ranks of the welfare state .
but , when growth began to slow , this means that government spending has swelled ( though it shrank its resources ) .
for some time , central banks bear the burden of spending .
the resulting high inflation raises widespread discontent , especially given that growth has barely boosted growth .
trust in keynesian stimulus has fallen , though high inflation does reduce public debt .
since then , central banks have embarked on stable inflation as their primary goal , and are increasingly independent of the executive .
but the government ’ s deficit spending has not slowed , and the share of public debt in advanced countries has risen steadily from the late 1970 ’ s , this time with no inflation to lower the real value of debt .
the us came from jimmy carter ’ s presidency and ronald reagan ’ s term in terms of the need to search for new sources of growth and deregulated industries and financial sectors , while margaret thatcher adopted similar moves in britain .
for years , the productivity of these countries has increased significantly , affecting the continent ’ s countries , mostly driven by the european commission .
public debt continues to increase .
and the moderately educated middle class has not benefited from the growth of deregulation ( though it has benefited as consumers ) .
in the latest phase of the advanced economies ’ frenzied search for growth , countries have been 八仙过海各显神通 .
in some countries ( in the united states ) , credit booms in the private sector have created a massive number of jobs , such as construction , while residents borrow to sustain consumption booms by 房地产 real estate .
in other countries ( as in greece and in parts of spain and italy ) , the government ’ s leadership 招工 provided employment protection for less educated workers .
in this “ fundamental ” view , the advanced countries ’ pre-crisis gdp growth was unsustainable , with the 堆 of borrowing and unproductive jobs .
“ borrowed ” prosperity – that is , keynes ’ s model – could create a normal illusion that can be silenced after a deep crisis , but not a solution to underlying growth problems .
if this diagnosis is correct , developed countries will need to focus on restoring innovation and productivity growth in the medium term , while redefining the pain of the welfare state in the short term , and in the short term to reduce the suffering of truly extreme people .
for example , the southern european countries ’ growth potential may lie in easing the regulation of services , reducing employment protection , and creating more private-sector jobs in the government ’ s job creation .
in the us , the imperative is to improve the match between potential jobs and workers ’ skills .
individuals know better than the government knows what they need and act accordingly .
for example , a large number of women are leaving low-income jobs so that better skills are open to the doors of high incomes .
the government ’ s attention is inadequate in these areas , partly because its benefits will be felt only after the end of the incumbents , and partly because the effectiveness of the government ’ s program is not high .
tax reform can spur people to participate in retraining , and they can encourage people to continue working , and to fill the fiscal hole .
three forces can help create more productive jobs in the future : better use of information and communication technologies ( and a new fee ) , as the development of alternative sources of energy , and the rapid demand for high value-added products in emerging markets .
the advanced countries have options .
they can defend ( though consumers , as well as a funk , “ animal spirits ” ) .
they can also view the crisis as an opportunity to fix the debt that has been generated in the last few decades .
in any case , the argument that governments and public choices believe will determine their future – and the future of the global economy .
financing the next development agenda
washington , dc – as the 2015 deadline for the millennium development goals approaches , the united nations has intensified the debate about the next round of global development efforts .
the outcome of these discussions will determine policies and investments aimed at stimulating gdp growth , strengthening human capital , and promoting more inclusive prosperity .
by 2050 , the world ’ s population is expected to reach nine billion – a large proportion of which will reside in developing or less-developed countries – and the international community must improve access to education , health , and employment opportunities worldwide .
at the same time , global temperatures are expected to rise above 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by the end of the century ( which will trigger global warming the most dangerous effects of global warming ) , and investments in sustainable urbanization and social safety nets .
two factors pose a challenge for us , in the long run , more sustainable patterns of production and consumption .
governments , civil society , and the private sector must address this challenge , with cooperation seeking and implementing creative solutions .
but , first , we must expect that financing requirements – financing requirements soon exceed the capacity of governments and international donors to present themselves ; and we must now take action to activate sound and reliable resources .
first , governments should design evidence-based targeted policies and support the development of reliable institutions .
this would make government services more effective , while helping to stimulate traditional donors ’ increased development assistance and mobilize private-sector funding .
broadening the tax base , improving the tax system , and narrowing the difference in the value-added tax will enable low-income countries to change substantially , in such countries as a share of gdp , with high-income countries accounting for 20-30 % of gdp .
more equitable taxation would have a positive effect on governance , and governance is another important tool for mobilizing domestic resources .
improving companies and public governance , making clear shifts in pricing policies , and making a fair contract with extractive industries will enable the resource-rich countries to negotiate fair contracts with extractive industries , gradually balancing income and spending , and managing its natural-resource endowments more transparently .
progress on these fronts would help governments to spend their money on the top .
for example , only 8 % of fossil-fuel subsidies in 2010 reached the poorest 20 % of the population .
targeted support programs would significantly increase the efficiency of spending , freeing up resources for education , health , and poverty reduction .
moreover , promoting financial deepening and inclusion can accelerate private-sector growth and create more opportunities .
in fact , access to financial services could help developing countries around four million ( estimated ) , small , and medium-size enterprises thrive , while allowing the world ’ s 2.5 billion people currently to be able to build their assets .
more deepening , more efficient financial sectors would also reduce transaction costs and facilitate risk management .
local-currency bond markets can help to develop domestic investors ’ basic disease and mobilize domestic savings to support long-term investments .
at the same time , the international community should work to improve the availability and efficiency of official development assistance ( oda ) .
a gdp target of 0.7 % of gdp in monterrey , mexico , in 2002 , should be able to spur countries to increase their contributions .
they can also take steps to increase the predictability of oda year .
donors should design aid structures to ensure good national development policies and programs , not to meet their own narrow interests .
this is particularly important as emerging development partners – particularly the brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – offer new forms of assistance and the new forms of assistance to non-financial aid .
private philanthropy – which has been a powerful tool for innovation in areas like health , environmental , and education – provides valuable insights into how to use aid more effectively .
more generally , improving coordination among donors would help maximize the impact of aid programs .
oda remains an important source of financing for fragile low-income countries , but it accounts for only 7 % of net financial flows to developing countries , and foreign direct investment , remittances , long-term debt , and portfolio investment .
donors should use aid to “ grow the pie ” and diversify the world ’ s poorest countries by providing risk guarantees , innovative investment vehicles , debt overhangs , and common financing arrangements .
attracting even a small fraction of institutional investors , sovereign-wealth funds , and public pension funds could boost development finance considerably .
diasporas are another major source of development finance .
reducing the cost of remittances – an estimated 9 % of the value of transactions – would make more money to the hands of those who need them most .
tailored financial products for the diaspora can attract resources , while strengthening immigration and other linkages with their native countries .
finally , the international community has a special responsibility to diversify global public goods .
the responsibility to protect the environment , stem the spread of infectious diseases , strengthen international financial architecture , promote developing-country participation in the global trading system , and enhance knowledge exchange is the intersection of national development priorities and global interests .
duty-free , quota-free access to oecd markets , together with simpler , more transparent rules of origin , would raise gdp by 1 % , leaving millions out of poverty .
investing in statistical capacity helps governments and businesses around the world to make policy decisions better , and account for the associated costs and benefits .
the challenge of the post-2015 development agenda lies in finding creative solutions to support prosperity , equality , and sustainability .
the government , civil society , international organizations , and the private sector will work together to improve access to finance and quality of development , providing a better future for all .
prague – when the czech republic prepares to be the european union ’ s rotating presidency , some europeans are talking about my speech , as if they were a 张伯伦 of neville chamberlain ’ s notorious remark about czechoslovakia ’ s notorious remarks .
a few years ago , donald rumsfeld wanted to spread europe ’ s 分出 “ new europe ” and “ old europe ” , but his rhetoric 确 this attitude .
in fact , there is no “ new europe ” and “ old europe , ” which has historically been no one .
european reunification and a break with communism are now nearly two decades old .
we czechs are 100 % of europeans , and in the iron curtain we are doing more from a democratic europe .
indeed , our pro-eu sentiments are stronger , as the eu and the eu have just gained freedom .
so europe does not need to worry about what the czech republic has , or the odd agenda , to impose on the eu .
on the contrary , the international drama has imposed an agenda that we can not escape .
the main , and most pressing , problem facing us is the financial and economic crisis that is sweeping the eu .
unfortunately , the situation across the eu will be worse before it is better .
recent social unrest in greece could spread , because the recession ’ s impact on europe ’ s young people may be even more severe .
thus , the eu needs to help turn despair into hope .
we czechs know this , because we experienced a hard economic transition in the 1990 ’ s and told us that much of the right policies can break the grip of despair .
europe must continue to cooperate in order to contain today ’ s financial and economic crisis .
in the 1930 ’ s , the continent faced a similarly brutal economic downturn , which now exists in the european union , particularly the euro , which has prevented the competitive devaluations of europe ’ s currency from competitive devaluations and making poor countries poorer .
but we can not be complacent that national egoism will be restricted .
so far , the eu ’ s governments have coordinated fiscal stimulus policies , and populists often blame the eu for the fate of individual individuals .
more policy coordination is needed to address the crisis and to re-establish eu rules when the storm starts to disappear .
the european stability and growth pact has become more flexible in this particular period , with the rule of law , which ensured the success of the euro ’ s first decade .
if europe is to return to the path to sustained growth , these rules will have to be restored , and there is a consensus on how to make that happen .
the second key challenge that we will face during our eu presidency is russia .
we must negotiate a new partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the russian federation .
negotiations should have been taken seriously last year , but the war in georgia has stalled .
these negotiations have now been restored , but the context for negotiations has changed dramatically .
russia ’ s economy is now much worse than the eu .
the collapse in the price of international oil and gas has damaged russia ’ s budget , and russia ’ s energy sector has been losing the output that has been predicted for years to come .
so far , russia ’ s concern about the deal is not as strong as the eu , because russia ’ s exports to the eu are about two-thirds of the natural resources that have been produced by natural resources , thus providing cash revenue even without the agreement ’ s hard provisions .
but , because the economic situation has changed dramatically , it is in the interest of russia to reassure international markets that it is in its own interest , and the new deal is an ideal signal .
and , without a new deal , europe will feel compelled to sign more bilateral deals with russia .
but the bilateral deals that the game brought to the fore sometimes hurt other eu member states , and could undermine the entire eu ’ s internal balance only by establishing a framework based on rules that can provide a solid basis for countries and the eu .
although multilateralism undoubtedly matters , the main force of european diplomacy is not its commitment to the creation of a rules-based multilateralism , but unity .
when the georgian crisis erupted , europe united , calling for russia to withdraw .
the czech republic ’ s task , as well as the task of the presidency , is to maintain solidarity when negotiations are negotiated .
in the 1990 ’ s , the us and europe ’ s goodwill ignored russia ’ s efforts to make mistakes , and now , if russia seeks to delay negotiations , the eu president , which wants to be a more assertive eu president , wants to be a far weaker one .
we , like other eu presidencies , will push for broad eu interests at the time of negotiations .
赞美 fragmentation
london – emerging markets have again become the focus of others .
investors and banks are suddenly unwilling to finance their current-account deficits .
south africa , for example , has had to raise interest rates , despite slow economic growth .
turkey ’ s interest rate is also striking .
for them , and for other emerging countries , 2014 may prove to be a tumultuous year .
if volatility becomes extreme , some countries may consider limiting capital outflows , and the imf now believes that this approach might be useful in a particular situation .
but the fundamental problem is how to respond to the impact of short-term capital inflows .
until recently , economic theory thought that the problem was not established .
financial liberalization was lauded as a result of its ability to move capital to the most productive places , thereby facilitating national and global growth .
but empirical support for the benefits of capital-account liberalization is weak .
the most successful development stories in economic history – japan and south korea – were characterized by a sharp domestic financial regulation and capital controls that have produced decades of rapid growth .
similarly , most cross-country research finds that there is no evidence that capital-account liberalization is good for economic growth .
as the economist jagdish bhagwati pointed out 16 years ago in his article , capital fiction , there is fundamental differences between trade in goods and trade .
trade liberalization in goods and services would promote economic growth , while a comprehensive capital account would not .
one reason is that many modern financial flows do not play a useful role in capital allocation , as economic theory assumes .
before world war i , capital was flowing only in one direction : from richer countries like the united kingdom , investment demand to australia or argentina exceeded domestic savings .
in today ’ s world , however , net capital mobility is often channeled from poorer countries to rich countries .
huge two-way capital flows are driven by a shift in the perception of instantaneously , which has replaced long-term capital investment ( borrowing in low-yielding currencies ) replacing long-term capital investment .
moreover , capital flows often promote consumption or unsustainable real-estate booms .
yet , despite the growing evidence of the contrary , the hypothesis that all capital flows benefit is a long way off .
this reflects its power not only from vested interests , but also from some of the ideas that have already been established .
a popular orthodoxy is disturbing to be overturned .
it is time to stop looking for these false benefits , and to distinguish between capital flows in different categories .
some are valuable , and some are harmful .
foreign direct investment ( fdi ) , for example , can boost economic growth , because it is a long-term , involving investment in the real economy , and often associated with technological or skill transfer .
equity portfolios may involve price volatility as a location for ownership , but at least it means a permanent commitment to business firms .
long-term debt financing for real capital investment can play a useful role .
by contrast , short-term capital flows , especially if they rely on short-term money by themselves , would create a risk of instability while creating a risk of instability .
the best policy response is to leave a little room .
because capital controls always can be manipulated , we can not simply reap the benefits of free trade and fdi without giving short-term investors some opportunities .
china has not yet opened its capital account , but the short-term inflows are now more upward pressure on the renminbi ( and the pboc ’ s larger accumulation of hedge reserves ) than the current-account surplus and fdi flows .
this could serve as a case in which capital-account liberalization , based on the impossibility of effective control , is a case in point .
while a better policy is absent , some effective control can still play a role if the threshold for short-term inflows and domestic credit cycles is directed .
after all , when capital inflows drive up real-estate consumption or real-estate speculation , the biggest disruption will be .
the necessary policy responses should be integrated into the consolidation of domestic financial regulation and capital-account management .
tax tools and reserve requirements that impede short-term capital inflows should be associated with countercyclical measures , such as additional capital requirements to curb domestic credit activities .
if global banks operate in the form of subsidiaries operating in emerging countries and use global funding reserves to provide domestic credit , the effectiveness of such measures would be undermined .
but this danger can be prevented by requiring banks to operate legally in legal registration , partial adjustment capital and liquidity reserves , and strong regulations to fund them .
such demands will not prevent useful capital flows : global banks can invest in emerging-market equities , and to fund their subsidiaries ’ balance sheets with long-term debt .
in banking , as in other sectors , investments in long-term technological transfers are highly beneficial , meaning that foreign banks should be allowed to compete with domestic banks on the same basis .
neither mandatory subsidiarization nor capital controls based on taxes or regulations can address all problems .
but , overall , they can stem the volatility caused by short-term capital flows and help ease the domestic credit cycle .
many financial sectors insist that these measures , like many economists , remain wedded to the old orthodoxy .
updating capital controls , they claim , would allow global financial markets to “ fragment ” their ability to allocate capital efficiently .
in the past , policymakers have been struggling to stress that such fragmentation is not permissible .
but we need a spade a spade : free movement of short-term debt leads to misallocation of capital and harmful instability .
when global capital markets arrive , fragmentation can be a good thing .
high-tech , 接触 economies
london – a recent study revealed that the five richest households in britain are more wealth than the poorest 20 % of the british combined .
in their wealth , some are from new firms ; but two families are the duke and 伯爵 , whose ancestors had the land of london in the nineteenth century .
cities and wealth are not just london .
in many countries , most of the wealth – and the bulk of the increase in wealth – contributed to the contribution of housing and commercial property , which is not the value of construction , but the value of the construction city .
that may seem odd .
though we live in the hi-tech virtual world of the internet , what is most tangible – land continues to rise relentlessly .
but there is no contradiction : land prices rise precisely because of rapid technological progress .
in the age of information and communications technology ( ict ) , we will inevitably value what the ict economy can not create .
ict has given us a remarkable new product and services ; but , as dani brynjolfsson of mit and andrew mcafee have shown in their recent book the second machine age , real change is not yet underway , and robots and software will be “ automated . ”
one result is a surprising phenomenon : a few labor inputs can create huge wealth .
facebook stands at $ 170 billion , but only about 6,000 employees .
the investment of the software that works in the construction of facebook is a matter of 5,000 software engineers .
this remarkable technology has driven up average incomes and will remain so .
but the distribution of this wealth is very unequal .
most of the growth has gone to the top half of those at the top , 10 % , or even 1 % .
but , despite getting richer , the bulk of its income growth has not been spent on ict-intensive goods and services .
the number of ipads and smart phones that one needs is limited , and their prices have been declining .
on the contrary , a growing share of consumer spending is being used to purchase goods and services that are rich in fashion , design , and brand brand values , and in residential locations .
but if the supply of lofty houses and apartments is limited , the price increase becomes inevitable .
so , in london , new york , shanghai , and many other cities , the value of the city ’ s land is rising – partly owing to consumer demand .
but the increase in the value of land makes them an attractive asset class for investors , because the future price will rise .
moreover , real estate returns have fallen sharply in the past 25 years ( far since the 2008 financial crisis ) .
the reason for low interest rates is debatable ; but the cost of a business investment based on hardware and software is a decline in the cost of commercial investment in hardware and software .
if a $ 170 billion company is created to engineer only 5,000 software engineers , it would not have to borrow much .
the fact that technology is so strong is not just that the physical land has become more valuable ; it also means that future employment growth will be around the world , especially in services that can not be automated .
the us bureau of labor statistics estimates that the fastest-growing occupations will be “ healthy support ” ( care , care , and 侍从 ) , as well as “ food preparedness and services ” – that is , most of the low-income jobs .
in short , ict creates a “ high-tech ” and “ 接触 ” economy – a world in which robots and apps operate alongside fashion , design , land , and face-to-face services .
that economy is the result of our ability to solve the capacity to produce productive problems and be excluded from automation .
but the economy could have two adverse effects .
first , it may be inherently unstable , because the more wealth they gather in real estate , the greater the financial system ’ s leverage to support real-estate investment , which is at the heart of the worst of the world ’ s financial crisis .
this will require major changes in financial and monetary policy , and the extent to which change will be dealt with by the 2008 crisis has overshadowed the response .
second , unless deliberate policies are designed to encourage and sustain inclusive growth , a highly unequal society is almost inevitable , and the increase in the value of land and wealth will amplify the distributive distribution of income that ict poses .
the trade delusion
london – since 2008 , global trade has grown slightly more slowly than global gdp growth .
the doha round of world trade organization talks failed .
the transatlantic and trans-pacific trade negotiations are struggling , owing to the resistance of special interests .
while many experts fear that protectionism will undermine globalization and threaten global economic growth , slower global trade growth is likely to be avoided , and the importance of trade liberalization is declining .
to be sure , the rapid growth of trade has played a crucial role in economic development over the last 65 years , leaving the advanced economies ’ average tariffs on average from more than 30 % to below 5 % .
the creation of a single european market facilitated the growth of intra-european trade .
japan , south korea , and taiwan have achieved rapid economic catch-up with export-led growth .
china has followed the same path over the last 30 years .
from 1990 to 2008 , trade grew twice as fast as global output .
but trade is unlikely to grow faster than gdp .
indeed , even without trade barriers , trade growth could be significantly slower in some periods than gdp growth .
several factors make us entering this period .
first , consumption patterns in advanced economies have changed .
the rich are increasingly spending the share of their income on services , which are either impossible to trade ( for example , meals in home meals ) or are difficult trade ( such as health services ) .
non-tradable sectors account for a growing share of employment and economic activity .
for decades , this trend has been offset by a growing volume of tradable commodity exchanges , which often flow through complex supply chains .
in the future , however , non-tradable consumption may dominate .
indeed , even trade intensity in manufacturing goods may fall .
trade is partly driven by differences in labor costs .
so far , a sharp increase in chinese manufacturing reflects low wages .
but with real wages in china and other emerging economies , incentives for trade will decline .
the more global incomes converge , the more trade will be traded .
moreover , as the mit economist erik brynjolfsson and andrew mcafee put it in the second machine age , rapid advances in information technology can make the use of automation increasingly widespread .
some production activities , though few jobs , are likely to return to developed countries , because proximity to customers ’ advantages and lower transport costs have gradually reduced differences in labor costs .
global trade as a share of global gdp is likely to decline , but it will not adversely affect global economic growth .
rising productivity does not require increasing trade intensity .
after all , while the planet does not trade with other planets , its economy remains growing .
optimal trade intensity depends on many factors – such as relative labor costs , transport costs , productivity , and economic effects .
even if it does , international trade will still play a critical role , and preventing the reversal of past trade liberalization is essential .
but further trade liberalization is bound to reduce the importance of economic growth .
with industrial tariffs already dramatically reduced , the potential benefits of most trade liberalization have been developed .
the benefits of further trade liberalization are often surprisingly low – not more than a few percentage points of global gdp .
this was small compared to the 2008 financial crisis , which led to a 10-15 % decline in economic output in many advanced economies than it did before the crisis .
and that is relatively small relative to the economic performance of countries that have managed to achieve catch-up economies – for example , china – with relatively little economic performance in the same countries that have the same access to global markets .
the main reason for slow progress in trade negotiations is not the growing protectionism of trade protectionism ; it is not the result of a complex trade-off with further liberalization .
the doha round ’ s failure was seen as a setback for the developing world , while some liberalization – for example , cotton imports in advanced countries – would undoubtedly benefit some low-income countries .
but a comprehensive trade liberalization would have a complex impact on the least-developed countries , some of which may lose access to the market for the advanced economies that they now enjoy , only to compensate for them .
this means that further progress toward liberalization will slow .
but this slow progress is only a minor impediment to development , relative to the debt that developed countries face , or the infrastructure and education gaps in many developing economies .
the truth is often overlooked .
past trade liberalization has led to a bias in global policy that is supposed to produce the same outcome .
but while the potential global benefits of trade liberalization have been reduced , the decline in trade intensity will continue to impede economic development in some countries .
in the last 60 years , only a few countries have fully caught up to living standards in developed countries , which are dependent on export-led growth and boosting productivity and job creation through manufacturing .
in the future , it will be even harder to rely solely on this model .
china is large , so it must develop domestic drivers of development at an earlier stage of the country , taiwan , and south korea ; so its exports will inevitably fall ( relative to gdp ) .
at the same time , for some low-income countries , the manufacturing and service automation proposed by brynjolfsson and mcafee , whether in advanced or chinese , is likely to make them more difficult to move toward high-income status than in the advanced economies .
this poses a serious challenge to development policy , and further trade liberalization is only marginally outweighed .
rethinking the monetization taboo
london – there is now a full discussion of the fed ’ s “ tapering ” of asset flows , and it will gradually shift to expectations about rising interest rates .
but there is another question : how will central banks achieve a final “ export ” of unconventional monetary policy , and to restore the balance sheets of unconventional monetary policy to “ normal ” levels ?
for many , a larger problem must be addressed .
the fed ’ s tapering is merely slowing its balance sheet .
if it is to return to the pre-crisis level , the authorities would need to issue worth $ 3 trillion .
but a largely recognized truth is that central banks need not shrink their balance sheets without shrinking their balance sheets .
they can remain larger and larger ; for some countries , such long-term conditions will help to mitigate public-debt burdens .
as a recent imf paper published by carmen reinhart and kenneth rogoff points out , the advanced economies face a debt burden that can not be reduced only through a series of austerity , delays , and growth .
but there is no purely public liability for public debt if a central bank is holding its own bonds .
even if central banks ’ holdings of government bonds were converted into long-term bonds , there is no real change , but it is clear that some of the previously issued public claims will not have to be repaid .
this amounts to “ helicopter money ” after the debt .
in 2003 , then-fed chairman ben bernanke believed that japan , faced with deflation , should increase public spending , or cut taxes , to fund these measures by printing money rather than issuing bonds .
he thought that this would ultimately increase national income , because the effect of this direct stimulus would not be offset by fears of future debt burdens .
but his advice was not adopted ; a large number of japan ’ s fiscal deficits were financed by debt .
but the debt held by the boj is still written off .
for japan , this would reduce government debt equivalent to 40 % of gdp , and could even reach 60 % if the creditor purchases of the 2014 plan were purchased .
the focus is on two risks : central banks ’ losses and excessive inflation .
but both outcomes can be avoided .
central banks use their own interest rates to buy government bonds with interest rates or ultra-low interest rates .
as a result , as interest rates rise , central banks may face spending exceeding income .
but even if central banks raise the policy rate , they can choose to pay zero interest payments on a part of the bank ’ s savings .
they can also demand that commercial banks hold the equivalent of zero interest rates on their loans , and thus prevent inflationary growth in private credit and currency .
monetization of long-term government debt is undoubtedly technically feasible .
whether this is desirable depends on expectations of inflation .
when inflation is returning to target levels , debt monetization could become unnecessary and dangerous .
the sale of central-bank debt , though bound to be inevitable , is also appropriate .
but if deflation is real , permanent monetization may be the best policy .
i predict that japan will de facto monetize some government debt in fact .
after 20 years of low growth and deflation , japan ’ s gross public debt has exceeded 240 % of gdp ( more than 140 % of gdp if the debt is calculated ) ; the debt burden continues to grow .
according to the international monetary fund , if it is to reduce net public debt to the equivalent of GDP80% by 2030 , japan will have to shift its current peak budget deficit into 6.7 % by 2020 , and to sustain this situation by 2030 .
this will not happen , and any attempt to achieve this goal will bring japan into a severe recession .
but japan ’ s government does not need to repay the 140 trillion ( $ 1.4 trillion ) debt that the boj has already held .
the boj will continue to expand its balance sheet until the 2 % inflation target is reached .
its balance sheet ’ s net value in its balance sheet will stabilize and maintain a steady decline in gdp at a certain rate of gdp , but its absolute size may never be reduced – a possibility that will not cause any concern .
this is precisely what happened when the fed ’ s balance sheet ended in 1951 , after the end of the us government ’ s wartime and postwar bonds .
even if permanent monetization occurs , the truth may be obfuscated .
if japan ’ s government bonds were to continue to be repaid in the bank of japan , it is often offset by a new central bank bond purchases , while the net effect of the bank of japan ’ s deposit interest rate to zero , which is a symptom of a “ normal ” central bank .
central banks can monetize debt without being pretending .
in the past , germany ’ s weimar government , today ’ s zimbabwe government , reflects this risk .
so , even if permanent monetization occurs – almost certain that japan will carry out and other countries may be – it may never mention that term .
this silence may help to achieve a beneficial purpose .
but that is not the kind of policy tool that central banks and governments forget that such policies can be used to cope with current debt overhangs .
the perils of financial freedom
london – in 2007 , china ’ s then-prime minister wen jiabao famously observed that “ china ’ s economy remains unstable , unbalanced , uncoordinated , and unsustainable . ”
today , imbalances remain , and china ’ s economy is too focused on investment and excessive reliance on credit .
the current chinese leadership has committed to building a more balanced development model and believing that the market will play a “ decisive role ” in achieving that goal .
but when some areas require stronger regulation , chinese officials should not expect the free market to become a panacea for the financial sector .
in fact , china ’ s current economic imbalance is partly a reflection of the crisis created by competition in credit markets .
even before the 2008 global financial crisis , china ’ s annual 投资 ratio reached a staggering 40 % , while economists are calling for a shift toward a more consumption-led growth .
in 2012 , these ratios had risen to 47 % , and the stimulus industry had already accounted for 40 % of total output .
the total volume of credit has soared from 130 % of gdp to 200 % , and both bank loans and “ shadow banking ” credit are expanding sharply .
both china and the global economy have benefited from this stimulus , and that is in danger of driving up aggregate demand .
but it also led to massive waste of waste in heavy industry , real estate , and urban infrastructure , leaving china the challenge of deleveraging and bad loans .
in many areas , strengthening market discipline does play a real role in addressing the structural causes of imbalances .
wasteful construction investment encouraged the construction of 农村土地 land .
the absence of normal ownership relationships between the central government and state-owned enterprises allows the latter to pay minimal dividends and invest too much in business development .
the cap on interest rates on bank deposits led to a massive subsidy for household savers .
and soes are more likely to borrow from state-owned banks than private companies .
but japan ’ s experience in the 1980 ’ s attests to the belief that financial liberalization will make the economy a balanced one .
as joe 斯蒂 has shown in his book asia , neither japan nor south korea is a economic miracle through the provision of free-market credit , on the contrary , they rely on deliberate credit flows to industrial development rather than real estate or consumption .
when japan loosened its grip on banking systems in the 1980 ’ s , it was a huge real-estate bubble and subsequent economic collapse , owing to two decades of slow growth and deflation .
china ’ s per capita income is equivalent to just one-quarter of japan ’ s , and it would be tragic if china had a similar setback for living standards in the developed world .
yet one notable feature of china ’ s economy is the construction of real-estate and urban infrastructure – housing , large industrial sectors , the conference centers , stadiums , and museums – that are more important than japan and south korea in the same phase of economic development .
this reflects the interaction between two chinese characteristics and one inherent feature of all banking systems .
the first great factor is the authorities ’ emphasis on “ urbanization , ” but the urbanization itself is an end , not a byproduct of industrialization .
the second is china ’ s decentralized approach to economic development , with competition among regions , cities focusing on grandiose urban infrastructure projects .
the common nature of this hybrid is that banks around the world can create private credit , money , and purchasing power , which would have a natural incentive to invest these agents in real estate , thereby driving up land prices .
ireland and spanish banks , before the crisis , have the same capacity to finance excessive real-estate construction as china ’ s state-owned banks .
thus , even if china introduced more market controls to achieve a positive success , it must plan to limit credit creation to the credit instruments of the advanced economies before the 2008 crisis .
extensive applications should be applied to loan-to-value ratios and 贷款额 ratios .
and capital requirements for banks should reflect higher risk weights on real-estate lending than banks ’ assessments of credit risk assessments .
the people ’ s bank of china should maintain the requirements of commercial banks ’ capital reserves to limit credit creation , rather than viewing it as obsolete as the advanced economies did before 2008 .
the credit supply of shadow banking must be tightly regulated .
control of the credit cycle is essential to free markets .
china thus faces a serious challenge .
it must adopt a transition not to the western model that led to the 2008 crisis , but to a new model that combines some market discipline and strong public policy constraints .
whether this transition can be handled smoothly is important for the entire world .
by the early 2020 ’ s , china ’ s gdp will be $ 20 trillion .
if the debt/gdp ratio reaches 250 % at that point , the value of total lending and debt securities would reach $ 50 trillion , three times larger than the sub-prime mortgage in 2008 .
today , most debt payments are within the state sector , such as soes and state-owned banks .
but , as the private sector continues to grow , soes are constrained by strict budget constraints , and external capital accounts are being liberalized , which will lead to mounting global financial risk .
we want the chinese government to recognize the virtues and risks of free markets better than advanced-economy policymakers before the 2008 crisis .
if not , another crisis – and more dramatic than the last – would be inevitable .
the great credit mistake
london – in 2008 , most advanced economies ’ private credit grew faster than gdp .
then , credit growth collapsed .
whether the collapse of private credit reflects low demand or constrained supply may be a technical issue .
but the answer has important implications for policymaking and economic growth .
the official answer is probably wrong .
popular arguments often emphasize supply constraints and policies to correct it .
impaired banking systems , it is argued , allowed firms to become less expansionary , especially in small and medium-size enterprises .
in september 2008 , us president george w. bush hoped to “ liberate banks to flow to american families and businesses . ”
the stress tests and recapitalization of us banks in 2009 were subsequently called the key to banking systems and economic recovery .
by contrast , the ecb ’ s insufficient stress tests in 2010 were widely cited as why the eurozone ’ s banks were too weak to provide a restructuring credit .
in the united kingdom , the banks have been criticized for failing to lend the reserves created by quantitative easing to the real economy , leading to the bank of england ’ s introduction of “ 专用 for lending ” scheme in 2012 .
in the eurozone , one hopes that this year ’ s asset quality review and stress tests will eventually quell doubts about bank solvency , freeing up credit supply .
taxpayer-funded banks ’ bailout policies , higher capital requirements , and extreme monetary policy are essential to overcoming limits on credit supply .
but there is ample evidence that when the immediate crisis passed , demand for credit demand will be far more constrained than supply constraints .
this persuasive argument has been made by 提夫 mian and amir sufi in the house of debt .
the important new book has analyzed us data , 米安 , and sufi visits to us shows that recession was caused by a collapse in household consumption , which has caused households to face the largest wealth relative to home prices in the run-up to pre-crisis borrowing and crisis .
it is these counties , too , that local companies cut their artificial 最猛 .
for small and medium-size enterprises , lack of customers , not a lack of credit , constrains its borrowing , employment , and output .
and the customers are lacking because the pre-crisis credit boom caused them to borrow too much .
in the uk , many business surveys from 2009 to 2012 offer the same conclusion .
weak clients ’ demand for customer demand is much more important than credit availability .
economic growth , even if credit supply is no longer restricted and cheap , is likely to remain deeply depressed .
in the early 1980 ’ s and early 1990 ’ s , many japanese companies were overleveraged by the boom in credit and real-estate booms .
by the late 1990 ’ s , the bank of japan ( boj ) provided loans to companies at near-zero interest rates .
but , instead of borrowing , companies cut investment to pay down their debt , thereby fueling two decades of stagnation and deflation .
since 2011 , the european central bank ’ s analysis of anemic eurozone growth has stressed the adverse effects of impaired and decentralized financial systems , and the excessive debt conditions and excessive bank recapitalization in the periphery .
the main progress to address these problems has been achieved .
the european central bank ’ s latest report , the bulletin of the bulletin , is certain to suggest that the availability of credit availability and prices are improving .
nonetheless , the rate of contraction in private-sector lending has accelerated in the last year – from -0.6 % to -2 % – and has sought to find a major reason for depressed credit growth .
while private deleveraging and fiscal consolidation are simultaneously limited to the limits of credit supply , the eurozone ’ s growth restrictions are far from limited .
but , despite the ecb ’ s evidence , the policy focus remains on the need to correct credit supply through asset quality review and stress tests , and by the ecb ’ s own lending mechanism ( announcing june 5 ) .
this suggests that official policy debates , particularly in the eurozone , are concentrated in addressing the problems that are more difficult to address .
fixing impaired banking systems after the crisis is critical and achievable .
moreover , while the cost of public aid is inevitable , the economic damage caused by the financial crisis and the post-crisis recession has been largely minor .
on the contrary , large debt overhang is tricky unless the policy orthodoxy is challenged .
in the 1990s , japan used massive public deficits to offset private deleveraging .
the us has moved away from recession faster than the eurozone , not only because – not even primarily because – it fixed its banking system faster , but also because it has pursued more stimulative fiscal policies .
but fiscal stimulus has been limited in the eurozone , with eurozone members no longer issuing their own currency , so “ sovereignty ” has defaulted on the risk of default .
aggressive monetary expansion , achieved through quantitative easing , is also more complicated , politically righteousness , because there is no federal debt to purchase a federal debt that central banks can buy .
to survive , the eurozone will need to become more centralized , with some common fiscal revenues , spending , and debt .
of course , this scenario implies very difficult political choices .
if eurozone policies think that resolving banks ’ problems will solve the economy ’ s problems , europe ’ s future will be like japan ’ s in the 1990s .
inequality by the click
london – when pope francis warned in november , “ ideological ideologies that defend the absolute autonomy of the market ” are causing rapid expansion of inequality .
is he right ?
in a sense , francis is clearly wrong : in many cases , inequality among countries is declining .
china ’ s average household , for example , is catching up with america ’ s average household ( though still a significant gap ) .
but such examples do not justify the importance of widening inequality within countries .
both china and the us are very unequal societies , and are becoming increasingly unequal .
in the us , the numbers at both ends of the income distribution are striking .
the bottom quarter of us households ’ real ( inflation-adjusted ) income has barely grown in the last 25 years .
they no longer share the fruits of the country ’ s growth .
but , at the top 1 % of americans , the real income of the top 1 % has increased by almost three times , accounting for 20 % of national income since the 1920s .
in many emerging countries , rapid economic growth has increased at least some of the lives of almost everyone , but the share of the rich and the ultra-rich is growing significantly .
once these countries achieve average income levels in developed countries , declining growth to typical rich-country levels , their future may be similar to that of the us today .
globalization partly explains why the us and other advanced economies have stagnated .
competition from lower-paid chinese workers has driven down wages in the us .
but technological change may be a more fundamental factor , affecting all countries .
technological change is a source of economic growth .
we have become richer because we learned how to maintain and increase output with fewer employees , and because innovation creates new products and services .
successful new technologies tend to create jobs in some sectors , but new jobs in other sectors offset the impact .
tractors destroyed millions of agricultural jobs , for example , but tractors , trucks , and cars created new jobs .
but new technologies are subtly different , and their economic consequences differ fundamentally .
today ’ s new technologies are far more disruptive than the technology of the 电机 era .
suppose that 30 years ago , someone invented a mantra that would enable us to talk to any friend in the world – one that only “ john maynard keynes , ” you can negotiate with john kerry .
the inventors have given their intellectual property , so the world ’ s wealthiest people ; his lawyers and those who provide him with luxury goods and services will become rich .
but , beyond that , there is no new job creation .
information and communication technology is not costless magic ; but , compared to innovation in the age of 电机 , they are closer to a 成本 魔法 .
the cost of computer hardware followed moore ’ s moore ’ s law as moore ’ s law .
and once software is developed , the marginal cost of copying it is almost nil .
but the number of jobs created is dwarfed by the number of jobs created .
in 1979 , general motors employed 850,000 workers .
today , microsoft employs only 100,000 people worldwide , google is 50,000 , and facebook is only 5,000 .
in this ocean of the ocean of the global labor market , it is only a small fraction of the number of jobs that information technology is “ automated ” by the information technology .
but rising unemployment is not inevitable .
we can create unlimited jobs in retail , restaurants , hotels , and a variety of personal services .
for example , walmart employs two million people , whereas the us bureau of labor statistics forecasts that the us will create a million additional jobs for the next ten years .
but the wages that markets are preparing for these jobs may generate greater inequality .
there is no reason why politicians ’ general answer – “ raising labor skills ” – will reverse this trend .
however many people learn cutting-edge it skills , facebook will always need a few thousand employees .
and access to well-paying jobs may depend not just on absolute skill levels , but also on relative skill in the winner-take-all world .
but , at least it products and services are very cheap , so even relatively poor people can afford it .
this may make a very unequal society more stable than many fear .
in his new book , 告别 , the economist tyler cowen has a deliberate provocative view : though new technologies will create an uneven group , the relative losers of a computer game and internet entertainment , the relative losers of the 最低 , and the 互联网 of the internet will be a 良民 .
cowen may be right ; the poor may not rebel .
but extreme inequality still worries us .
more than a certain threshold of inequality inevitably leads to a greater number of opportunities for inequality ; both the result and the extreme inequality that is both the result and the chance of opportunity undermine the notion of equality .
so pope francis is right : though capitalism is undoubtedly successful in creating economic growth , we can not simply rely on market forces to create a socially desirable social outcomes .
all new technologies create opportunities , but the way the fruits of the new technology to allocate new technologies may be very unequal .
today , the challenge of offsetting this outcome is greater than ever .
protectionist shadows over solar power
cambridge – the world ’ s largest anti-dumping dispute reached a settlement in late july , with china agreeing to export solar panels to the eu at the lowest minimum price .
the final solution , which has moderated many of the results , has been reduced by the fact that the european commission ’ s tariffs on solar panels in china will rise to % % , if the european commission decides that the share of china ’ s share of the european market is up .
but reconciliation is a bad outcome for consumers and the environment .
the dispute between china and the eu is similar .
last autumn , after the us department of commerce decided that china was “ dumping ” ( generally defined as a lower price than cost ) , the us imposed tariffs on imports from chinese imports from china .
china , for its part , argues that the us is dumping its vital materials for dumping solar panels in china , and tariffs on imports of us imports exceed 50 % .
the solar-power dispute may seem narrow , but it addresses the core issues of long-term debate over globalization .
the most powerful argument against anti-globalization activists is that even if free trade favors economic growth , it could undermine important public goods such as environmental protection .
but trade may have a favorable impact on the environment .
specialization in countries allows people to get more of what they want , especially when income levels are high , and clean air and water are more in anticipation of people ’ s expectations .
while trade lowers costs , it can benefit environmental areas as well as benefits .
so , is trade globalization on the whole , or for good reason ?
some empirical studies of cross-country data found positive effects on indicators of environmental degradation such as local sulfur-dioxide air pollution .
as long as a country has effective governance institutions at the national level , trade and economic growth will give them a way to clean up their air .
but there is also evidence that trade and economic growth will exacerbate other forms of environmental degradation , especially co2 emissions , because the existence of free riders can not be addressed at the national level .
the solar industry is a perfect example of how trade benefits air quality .
skeptics of solar power have long argued that , because they are too expensive to offer alternative solutions , their share in electricity generation will not exceed a few percentage points .
proponents of solar power have similarly argued that temporary subsidies for moderate subsidies would expand the industry ’ s size , and the size of the economy and experience in the economy will reduce costs dramatically .
but supporters of the government have largely ignored the government ’ s subsidies , which have had a positive impact on the development of solar technologies in recent years , and china ’ s extensive peer resources have reduced costs .
the current protectionism may reverse progress .
without cheap solar panels from china , subsidies for european industry development , and because of fiscal reasons , are still far from environmentalists ’ expectations .
but “ discovery ” of “ dumping ” against foreign markets , of course , requires a response ?
indeed , it is not .
first , even those who are generally sympathetic to 贸易市场 tend to believe that they aim to combat “ predatory pricing , ” which is the result of a failure to drive a competitor ’ s bankruptcy at the cost of cost , and then can drive up prices .
but it is often not subject to such rules , much less compliance .
simply put , anti-dumping measures , such as the us and europe ’ s solar panels , are designed to contain , rather than promote , competition .
so , what if predatory pricing is not an incentive for producers to sell below costs in these cases ?
in the united states , europe , the united states , and globally , overcapacity is straining the solar panels industry .
as a result , maintaining a global market price is lower than the long-term average cost per unit of production .
but these market prices are not low compared to the short-term costs of construction after construction .
in other words , production firms are selling “ below cost ” because factories are already built , and their costs would be more costly if their fees are higher than competition prices or simply stopped production .
when the us or the eu concluded that china ’ s “ dumping ” solar panels , or when china considers the us “ dumping ” 多晶硅 , they consider the average , not marginal , cost .
according to this standard , dumping a store is dumping .
some would limit the negotiations between china ’ s solar panels exports and “ voluntary export restraints ” ( “ voluntary export restraints ” ) , or “ orderly marketing arrangements ” ( vers ) , especially in japan in the 1980 ’ s , when japan pledged to export its exports to the us .
but japan ’ s precedent for voluntary export restraints on the auto industry during this period makes sense .
american automakers are increasingly difficult to compete with smaller , more fuel-efficient japan .
when free trade was finally restored , america ’ s wallets and air quality benefited ( and the us auto industry was forced to become more efficient ) .
the same is true of solar equipment today .
westerners should thank chinese panel producers for their role in maintaining solar power , rather than punishing them through anti-dumping measures that protect them .
the russian godfather
warsaw – russian president vladimir putin ’ s behavior is like a mafia boss .
in the process of invading , occupying , and ultimately annexing crimea , he put russia ’ s guns on ukraine , saying that territorial sovereignty is a matter of life or death .
so far , extortion has worked – and putin knows it .
indeed , speaking in his speech to the annexation of crimea , putin expressed his mind : his regime did not fear any punishment , and it would do whatever it takes .
crimea is only a first step toward restoring russian greatness .
his speeches in the kremlin were a veil of lies and manipulation , but it is a waste of time .
the simple fact is that one of the world ’ s most powerful countries is in the campaign toward the entire international community .
his speech was a fiery , paranoid style in 耶夫斯基 ’ s demons , as if he was in a fatalistic universe , in which one does not exist and never existed .
kosovo is in common with crimea , where albanians suffered persecution and ethnic cleansing , while crimea has never been oppressed by ukrainians .
why openly contempt for ukraine ’ s government , parliament , and people ?
why label ukrainian dictator a “ fascist and anti-semitic ” label ?
crimean tatars simply don ’ t care about fascists ’ teachings to ukraine ; they remember the brutal and murderous mass deportations of their parents and grandparents , ordered by stalin , and executed by stalin .
in putin ’ s view , the world has succumbed to russia for the last three centuries .
russia ’ s bloody despots – catherine ii , nicholas i , or stalin – have apparently never succumbed to anyone .
putin also warns that “ you and we – russians and ukrainians – may lose crimea altogether .
but he did not specify who is – and perhaps poles and lithuanians ? – in sevastopol .
russia , according to putin , can not put in place the “ lonely predicament ” of crimea .
this sounds curiously sound ; in august 1968 , leonid brezhnev used the same phrase as the red army to intervene in the red army to intervene in czechoslovakia , to help the beleaguered communist hardliners repress the prague spring reform movement .
“ we want ukraine to be a strong , sovereign , and independent country , ” putin said .
stalin said the same thing in 1945 .
the brave russian democrats who have not fought have pointed out that putin ’ s appeal to his annexation of crimea was no different from hitler ’ s stance in 1938 and the sudeten crisis in 1938 .
this is the end of the true history of history – the history of the dream of a world of democratic values and a market economy .
unless democratic the democratic world understands that it is no time to believe in a diplomatic compromise , and to block putin ’ s imperial designs in a sufficiently tough way , events could move toward a 不可收拾 direction .
to prevent mobs , force forces must resort to force and cosmetic sanctions .
i applaud and proud of poland ’ s prudent and decisive policy and the attitude of poland ’ s people , which gives us considerable reputation .
but we must recognize that the best quarter of the last four decades in poland will be over before our eyes .
we must cherish our achievements and learn to protect it .
it is also often bad for big brother to end badly , and i don ’ t think that putin will end up doing well .
unfortunately , many of this will be hurt , not least those who now support him .
living with climate change
rotterdam – for all those who still see the consequences of global warming , the summer of 2018 , and the hottest summer in history , should have tilted their scales .
in far-flung 精度 and latitudes , regions are struggling to cope with the impact of large-scale climate events .
in the southern united states , cities and towns that were hit by hurricane florence in september were nearly dry up before hurricane michael in october .
in california , 消防人员 is trying to extinguish the largest wildfire in the state ’ s history .
and in parts of latin america , europe , africa , and asia , agricultural output is in freefall , owing to months of 闷热 weather .
cooler weather hardly alleviates this suffering .
according to the united states ’ national oceanic and atmospheric administration , “ the moderately ” conditions for “ exceptional ” drought cover the united states .
but “ extreme ” and “ exceptional ” drought – the worst category – expanded to cover 6.3 % of the country ’ s territory , above 6 % in mid-september .
many of australia ’ s regions are fighting the worst drought in a generation .
indeed , for a growing number of people around the world , floods , landslides , and heat waves – in short , japan – have become a new normal .
a recent study by the public scientific library predicts that the incidence of heat-related deaths in the united states is more than five times higher than that of hot heat ; the outlook for poor countries will be even worse .
the reason is no longer the primary target of climate debate ; it is fossil fuels and human activity .
on the contrary , the problem is how billions of people and businesses face the risk of rapid adaptation and ensure that their communities can recover as much as possible .
even if the world achieves the paris climate agreement to limit global temperatures to 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels , it will be essential if extreme weather is now a new normal .
some communities have recognized this , and local adaptation efforts are being implemented .
in melbourne , australia , for example , planners are doing everything to reach the city ’ s 树荫 by 2040 , an approach that reduces temperatures and reduce heat-related deaths .
likewise , in the western world ’ s population of more than seven million of the country ’ s population , the government launched a massive operation in rooftops , aimed at reducing the “ 热岛 ” temperature , which is known as a 城市 urban area that can absorb the sun ’ s heat , and even urban life at night .
this is just two of the infrastructure responses that communities around the world are implementing .
but adapting to climate change will also mean managing the long-term economic effects of extreme weather , which countries are just beginning to take seriously .
consider water scarcity .
according to the 2016 world bank analysis , water crises in africa and the middle east are likely to reduce their gdp by 6 % by 2050 .
this is painful anywhere in the region , but in areas where political instability and humanitarian crises suffer , the consequences will be disastrous .
at the same time , rising sea levels will wreak havoc on coastal areas .
the decline in the value of real estate would have a profound impact not only on individual wealth , but also on the tax base in communities and in sectors that serve the real estate sector .
there is also a related problem , because the frequency of weather-related disasters and businesses around the world will eventually fall into 保额 or even uninsured .
no international body or government can provide a solution to the problems raised by climate change .
but some are taking key leadership roles , driving governments and local communities to act more urgently .
the global commission on adaptation , launched this week by former united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon , microsoft co-founder bill gates , and the world bank ’ s chief executive , is a promising plan to accelerate the response .
over the next 15 years , around $ 90 trillion will be spent on infrastructure reform .
how these programs are deployed , and whether they have a low-carbon features , may lead the world to more adapting to climate change – or , if not , in the coming decades .
the daughter of dictatorship and democracy
seoul – if elections are to be tomorrow , not in december 2012 , who will be the next country ’ s president , the country ’ s next president , has become a theme of south korea .
not just one poll shows that park , the gnp candidate , is most likely to win .
if elected , she will become south korea ’ s first female president , and , according to her opponent , her position in the campaign ’ s position , while unassailable , is overwhelming .
and voters across south korea welcome park ’ s candidacy .
her political style is both valuable and fresh , because she leaves a sincere sense of the impression that she is sincere in the public ’ s desire for moral leadership .
and she has a remarkable talent to simplify the complex issues of complexity , with her ability and ability to interpret all of the political connotations of controlling the political connotations of all issues most likely from former president park chung-hee .
after the 1961 military coup , the iron-fisted president park chung-hee , who was touted as national hero in the right , was ruled by the intelligence agencies from 1963 to 1979 .
his daughter was proud of his father ’ s achievements , which was the beginning of south korea ’ s economic boom .
indeed , as a pillar of export-oriented modernity , park chung-hee was once hailed as a classic political leader of the military dictatorship .
his popularity in south korea remains high among heads of state , as is the case with the popular 老唱片 of nostalgia – an inevitable corollary of the current government ’ s leadership and anger .
park , who ran out of the national party ’ s first round of the gnp in 2007 , is the top priority of ensuring that the rupture with the old rival will not affect her in 2012 .
as a savvy politician , park did not hesitate to campaign for lee ’ s campaign to campaign for lee ’ s campaign – a move that makes sense for a long-term political strategy .
in many south koreans , the presidential campaign is park ’ s pocket .
no candidate seems able to stop her from succeeding .
if elected , she will be the result of serious and tenacity , not political heritage .
none of south korea ’ s conservative movements is suspicious of one of them .
as a icon of the right , she is aware that she can not betray her position .
despite charisma , the 但朴 is neither sarah palin nor eva 裴隆 .
indeed , she is more like south korea ’ s margaret thatcher – a man that , according to thatcher ’ s famous famous phrase , would have a 转弯 political ethic to give her every move .
in any case , she seems destined to promote south korea ’ s fateful ‘ jul ‘ se ’ s commitment , ostensibly to be ‘ tax cuts , deregulation , the restoration of legal order , rather than just the tradition of its parents .
the government , led by her , would first have escaped south korea ’ s recent problems .
while park has always preferred gradual change of gradual change relative to extreme measures , left-wing academics claim that the daughter of authoritarian president and his father had the same autocratic objectives as his father .
others take a direct approach to gender discrimination , claiming that , as long as the north korean regime continues to threaten national security , women will not succeed .
in 2006 , after a mad election , she won the “ queen of elections ” for park .
but she must provide a compelling practical strategy for addressing south korea ’ s most serious problems , including high unemployment , declining educational quality , and north korea ’ s nuclear weapons .
park , park ’ s daughter , promised to provide loans to working-class families from primary school to university , while arguing that local universities should have more autonomy .
she favors engagement with policy and the six-party talks to address the nuclear issue .
in the run-up to the 2012 presidential election , south korean voters will move to a pragmatic , moderate campaign , rather than a partisan ideologue .
park ’ s success will depend on his campaign ’ s effectiveness in highlighting her characteristic character .
unlike former peruvian dictator alberto fujimori ’ s daughter , who lost her election in peru last month , park may change his family ’ s tragic history .
if so , she will become asia ’ s most powerful women by the end of next year .
a day for planetary justice
princeton – we now know about the planet , our children ’ s actions , and the poor – making greenhouse gases – the greatest moral malpractice committed by our generation .
on october 24 , you can speak against this injustice .
october 24 is the so-called “ 350 day . ”
the name is rooted in the total amount of co2 in the atmosphere , which , according to jim hansen , the world ’ s preeminent climate scientist , should not be able to do so if we are to avoid a potentially large climate change .
this measure also highlights the depth of the current problem , as current co2 levels have reached 386ppm , increasing at a rate of growing annual rates .
with predictions of global warming – and , in a few years , “ alarmist ” rhetoric – the need to cut greenhouse-gas emissions became clear .
and we are moving to a dead-end end , regardless of how the vicious cycle will continue , and to keep the planet warm .
the melting of arctic ice is one example .
four decades ago , explorers tried to find a “ northeast passage ” from the 方向 to china .
but they are finding the arctic ice impenetrable , and they have been left behind .
this year , commercial vessels successfully navigated the northeast passage .
this example is only one of those striking phenomena , and the climate is becoming warmer and warmer than the past .
but the arctic ocean is not just a symptom of global warming , but also a cause of further warming : the sun can reflect the sun ’ s light .
a land that is not covered by ice will absorb more sun heat , in other words , our greenhouse-gas emissions , by creating enough heat from the arctic ice , which , in turn , will continue to operate .
the other cycle shows a similar danger .
in serbia , large quantities of methane ( a heavily influenced greenhouse gas ) have been used to be called “ 冻土 ” areas , because people believe that land in these regions would permanently be in the state of 封冻 .
but now the land started to unfreeze and releases methane , resulting in further warming – and the release of more methane and more methane .
developing countries recognize the unconscionable nature of current greenhouse-gas emissions .
at the united nations climate change summit in september , rwanda ’ s president paul kagame noted that the biggest victims of climate change could be the continent ’ s biggest victims , while the country ’ s advanced countries have the full responsibility to shoulder the problem .
kagame thus proposes to give countries a year per capita co2 emissions , and allow countries that emit below their quota to sell their emissions to countries that exceed their limits .
sri lanka , too , has taken the same stance , according to the united nations climate change group in 2008 , where environmental permits can not be more than 公斤 kilograms per person .
but the fact is that the world ’ s per capita emissions are 76 kilograms , or more than double .
yet , when rich countries emit far more than their limits , sri lanka ’ s per capita emissions are at 660 kilograms .
as sri lanka ’ s government pointed out : “ this means that we can not emit more emissions , because we are already in the rich and globally polluting countries , where the space is already available . ”
this disparity in injustice is one of the nineteenth-century colonialism of western powers – and perhaps even worse – in the nineteenth century .
the correction must be implemented at the copenhagen climate conference in december .
while many politicians favor strong action against climate change , most people believe that “ strong action ” is not enough to bring us back to co2 levels of 350 ppm .
and , in some countries , including the united states , even more modest measures are needed to confront them .
on october 24 , people in almost every country will take action , and to reinvigorate the need for an international treaty that would lead people to 350 ppm .
it would also be marked by the himalayan 上拉起 横幅标语 , which will gradually melting melting , and in australia ’ s great barrier reef , the threat of climate change .
churches will be more than 350 times , 350 cyclists will be 绕城 , and 350 trees will be planted in many places .
you can find out how you can find your way around and participate in the web through the web site .
but let ’ s not sit on the sidelines , and expect others to do everything .
one day your grandchildren will ask : “ what did you do when you ’ ve faced the most difficult moral challenge of this era ? ”
the day of liberation
during my seven years , my grandmother ’ s grandmother , in 1960 , taught me that 8 may 1945 was the meaning of 1945 : nazi germany surrendered , and world war ii ended in europe .
at the time , we were summer holidays , where europe emerged from the holocaust on june 6 , 1944 , from its allies on june 6 , 1944 .
one evening , i heard my parents and my grandmother talking about the past .
i don ’ t recall the details of the conversation , but i hear my grandmother ’ s sigh of relief at the time : “ thank god , we lost that war . ”
from a child ’ s perspective , it is not easy to understand the failure .
but there is no doubt that my grandmother is right to equate defeat with liberation .
the more i know about her 45 years ago , the more i see it , the more it is unclear : “ we ” lose the war .
as a nation , germans are not just innocent victims of the sins of the “ nazi ” and are doomed to fail . “ nazism ” was deeply ingrained in germany , and a reflection on whether it once held the idea .
in germany today , most people favor a day of liberation , not only for europe , but also for germany on may 8 , 1945 .
this is a huge improvement relative to public opinion in 1960 .
paradoxically , however , it is likely to contain an element of “ forgetfulness , ” because it often leaves one truth : liberation is a military victory .
quoting my grandmother , the liberators was not “ us , ” but “ them . ”
there is more telling us that there is more to be said of the past than it is in the past .
this is the reference to the term “ the politics of memory ; ” it is why the relevant events are occurring 60 years ago ( the armenian genocide ) , or six years ago ( for example , in the 1967 war in kosovo ) .
wars in memory are likely to lead to violent conflict in the future .
former perpetrators often try to dismiss the moral superiority of their victims by claiming that they were victims themselves .
so , for the term “ the politics of memory , ” the 60th anniversary of the 60th anniversary of the 盟军 attack on dresden on february 13 , 1945 , could be a more critical moment .
the far-right party , the far-right director , has dubbed the “ dresden massacre , ” killing at least 30,000 people in the attack .
fortunately , their propaganda campaign failed .
while the german civilians killed as individuals in dresden and other german cities were innocent , there is no doubt that germany should be defeated as a nation .
among the left ’ s left , on may 8 , 1945 , as a day of liberation , it was never enough .
however , the fact that this outcome must be used massively , but sometimes 压置 .
left-wing pacifism often ignores this clear fact .
its slogan “ no longer war ! ” is only part of the truth , and some are “ no longer appeasement ! ”
on may 8 , 1945 , on may 8 , it was not the “ zero hour ” that germany cited , because there is already precedent : a lack of “ pre-emptive ” resistance to nazi germany at home and abroad in the 1930 ’ s .
there is another lesson to be learned .
yes , 8 may 1945 was a day of liberation by the soviet army .
but , for millions of central and eastern europeans , the 解放后 was stalin ’ s oppressive rule .
the memory of the war between the baltic republics and russia today is the theme of this year ’ s international celebration in moscow on may 9 , which makes germany aware of a special historical responsibility .
the “ 互不侵犯 ” treaty between the 德苏 , the so-called hitler agreement , had been revised on august 1939 , adding to a secret letter – the interests of finland , estonia , latvia , poland , and romania to the interests of the two powers .
but trying to defend nazi atrocities against stalin ’ s crimes is an intellectually and morally unacceptable .
when chancellor gerhard schröder came to jail to attend the celebrations , he should be able to rethink the responsibilities of germany for the baltic tragedy .
on may 8 , the public ’ s voice will remind us of how important it is .
they will emphasize that if the lessons of history are not learned , history will be doomed .
these are perfectly true .
but , as individuals , i also remember my grandmother ’ s sentence : “ thank god , we lose the war . ”
thank god for all of the allies who sacrificed their lives for defending europe ’ s freedoms .
crashing the sdr
santa barbara – the chinese government ’ s effort to enter the international monetary fund ’ s reserve asset , the international monetary fund , is now on the verge of success .
last week , the imf recommended that the renminbi joined the basket of currencies that determines the value of its so-called special drawing rights ( sdr ) .
the sdr basket currently includes the dollar , the euro , the british pound , and the japanese yen , adding the renminbi to china ’ s opportunity to raise its prestige .
more important , it would facilitate the chinese government ’ s policy of internationalizing the renminbi .
but it is also a mistake .
the long-term consequences of such a move could be regrettable .
from a purely technical perspective , it is doubtful that the renminbi will qualify for the sdr basket .
the imf has traditionally called for two criteria : issuers of currencies must be the world ’ s leading exporter ; and the currency must be “ freely usable ” – that is , widely used and traded .
as the world ’ s largest exporter , china clearly meets the first condition .
the second condition , however , remains inadequate .
the renminbi is still no match for the sdr basket ’ s four currencies .
in 2014 , the renminbi ranked seventh in global central-bank reserves , eighth international bond issuance , and 11th international transactions .
moreover , the renminbi is still non-convertible for most capital transactions , and china ’ s financial markets are primitive , and transactions in exchange rates are still set daily by the monetary authorities .
indeed , until august , the imf expressed skepticism about whether to join the people ’ s inclusion in the sdr , arguing that it will still need “ great jobs , ” and recommended that it postpone the decision until 2016 .
so why has the imf changed ?
the answer is obvious : china has brought together hard and hard change .
in august , the renminbi ’ s exchange-rate regime was loosened slightly .
london issued renminbi-denominated government bonds , and several financial centers in europe have proposed plans to create new trading platforms .
it is clear that china ’ s policymakers made it abundantly unpleasant to make their decisions unpleasant .
their pressure worked .
western governments have joined the renminbi , despite its practical limitations .
the imf received this message , and now responds .
the proposal to expand the sdr basket was supported by christine lagarde , the imf ’ s managing director , and is expected to decide the imf ’ s final decision at the end of the month .
many will say that this is a positive development .
obviously , it would appease chinese leaders , with greater incentives to continue to act within existing international monetary regimes .
china ’ s recent actions , particularly the establishment of the asian infrastructure investment bank , have led people to fear that it is intended to establish a new international institution to compete with organizations like the west .
the decision to incorporate the people into the sdr basket would mitigate this danger .
on the other hand , the decision ushered in yet a somewhat different precedent , putting politics out of a policy area that had been guided by objective economic considerations .
one can imagine that , in the long run , china ’ s success in enabling the renminbi to join the sdr basket also opens the door for lobbying by other governments to join the sdr basket .
why not join the swiss franc or the canadian dollar ?
or , for the same reason , why not join the russian ruble or indian rupee ?
once an accepted elite monetary club , it is now a political non-starter .
of course , one might argue that china ’ s recent economic trajectory suggests that the renminbi can be a matter of the sdr .
after all , the internationalization of the renminbi has been growing exponentially .
likewise , the use of the renminbi for the purpose of invoicing and settling trade with china is bound to continue to increase .
but for the most important role of the currency – investment vehicles or reserve assets , the renminbi ’ s prospects are not so good , because capital controls in china remain tight , and the level of financial development is low .
whether to join the sdr basket would boost the renminbi ’ s internationalization , as many believe .
some central banks may follow suit , incorporating renminbi-denominated assets into their reserves to match the composition of the sdr basket .
but this increase is small – and perhaps $ 40 billion in the coming years .
today , more than $ 10 trillion in global reserves is a tiny sum .
the political reasons for inclusion in the renminbi are clear .
unfortunately , the risk of doing so is less clear .
the retreat of international tax cooperation
new york – much of the world ’ s governments are eager to mobilize more tax revenues to finance development finance and to curb pervasive tax avoidance ( such as the so-called luxembourg leaks revealed by the so-called luxembourg leaks ) .
but at the third international conference on financing for development , held in addis ababa last month , strengthening international tax cooperation abruptly stopped .
developed countries blocked the creation of a intergovernmental tax authority within the un to replace the current un committee on taxation .
these countries ’ insistence on tax cooperation will only be carried out under their control of the oecd .
other countries should hope that this is a temporary stop for international cooperation , not an end to the international development finance conference , which began 13 years ago in monterrey , mexico .
two years later , in 2004 , the united nations economic and social committee ( ecosoc ) upgraded its tax experts to a permanent committee .
this means that experts will convene regularly , and their authority will be expanded , not just updating the 双税 treaty .
four years later , at the second conference on financing for development in doha , qatar , policymakers acknowledged that they were doing too little , and asked ecosoc to consider strengthening institutional arrangements .
in the first year of the addis ababa conference , the un secretary-general suggested that it supported the need for a “ intergovernmental panel on tax cooperation under the un framework . ”
the secretary-general ’ s support , together with strong support from ngos and international companies and international companies , has made demands for developing countries more powerful in developing a global tax code .
until the 11th hours of the negotiations in addis ababa , they were determined to demand a global framework for international cooperation on international tax cooperation through power and resources .
yet , with little : the home countries of the united states and the united kingdom – the home of “ luxembourg ’ s leaks ” – have managed to block the progress that this global governance desperately needed .
in the end , the addis ababa action agenda stipulates that the current commission will continue to function according to its 2004 mandate , adding three meetings each year to voluntary contributions .
this is a profoundly disappointing outcome .
the advanced countries have their reasons – but not convincing .
in fact , the oecd , comprising the world ’ s 34 richest countries , is clearly capable of developing international tax standards .
but a small group of countries dictates that , in reality , the global-governance structure of global governance is already out of touch with globalization .
the monterrey consensus reached in 2002 called for strengthening “ developing countries ’ voice and engagement in international economic decision-making and norms . ”
but while the oecd has invited some developing countries to participate in the discussions , there is no decision-making power .
the oecd is thus an inferior substitute for a globally representative intergovernmental forum .
despite disappointment in addis ababa , the call for reform of the international tax system is unlikely to be silenced .
on the contrary , the voices of all sides will increasingly increase the demand for a unilateral tax change in the oecd as the advanced countries ’ counterproductive refusal to make concessions on international tax cooperation led to a tsunami of unilateral tax measures in the oecd .
the formation of jihadism
madrid – the belgian historian henry 皮雷纳 has linked europe ’ s birth as a christian continent to the eighth century .
perhaps never mind that brussels will someday reach a muslim ghetto , much less imagine that it will become the center of jihadism , and it is seen as being marginalized and angry from europe ’ s borders .
divorce is not realistic at this stage .
but it can not be allowed to continue the kind of marriage that islam scholar ramadan ramadan advocates .
ramadan , the grandson of the egyptian muslim brotherhood ’ s founder , is a swiss citizen , with a resident of the united kingdom , who argued that islam ’ s moral and values should be injected into the european system .
europe is not only tolerant of islam , but also accepting it as an integral part of its own .
the problem with ramadan ’ s vision is that europe is a continent with a secular , 势力 continent that has deep and forward-looking ideas on moral grounds .
islamic societies , by contrast , are deeply religious and deeply embedded in the past .
when islamists talk about political and social reform , they are generally looking back at the time of the past , hoping that the era of renaissance , from gender equality to gay marriage , is in place .
even muslims who support islam ’ s modernization tend to dismiss europe ’ s moral vision .
ramadan ’ s flaw in the solution to european jihadism is a reflection of his flaws in this phenomenon , which blames jihadism for european involvement in the middle east , europe ’ s so-called collusion with israel , and its support for arab dictators .
“ we can not , ” he writes , “ support the dictatorship , when civilians are killed in our borders , and hope that we will not be responding to the injustice and humiliation of the injustice . ”
but the us launched the war in iraq and afghanistan , offering unconditional support to israel and repeatedly supporting arab autocrats .
europe has always been criticized for such policies – often with fierce rhetoric .
but the us has not suffered from a vengeance in jihadist sentiment .
us president barack obama ’ s gradual retreat from these policies might help to ease resentment of the us .
in the arab spring uprisings , for example , he quickly cut off support for tunisian president zine el abidine ben ali and egypt ’ s president hosni mubarak and allowed protesters inspired by western democratic models .
the us , or europe , certainly did not support the return of egypt ’ s dictatorship in 2013 by abdel fattah el-sisi ’ s coup coup , and both the us and europe supported the democratically elected muslim brotherhood .
in recent years , europe has even provided more direct help to arab countries .
if not in europe ’ s military intervention , libyans will still live under a brutal muammar el-qaddafi .
indeed , europe could have done more to prevent the ensuing chaos in libya .
but libya ’ s citizens certainly should be responsible for the proliferation of militias that refuse to unite the country to save the country into outright collapse .
more broadly , while the west – especially the united states – has made serious policy errors in the arab world over the last 50 years , outsiders can not be held accountable for the region ’ s crisis .
the current situation is the result of a profound civilizational crisis – one that only citizens in the arab world can address .
if europe ’ s foreign policy does not take responsibility for the current chaos in the arab world , it certainly should not be a reason for the rise of jihadism within europe .
the real problem is the domestic : it is the very effective policies that are lacking from the social justice , education , housing , and employment of the european muslim youth community .
the vast majority of europe ’ s jihadists have shown that such linkages do exist .
they lack the real understanding of the islamic teachings of islam , and lack the practical opportunities to improve their lives , so easy prey for extremists .
jihadism , in its sense of absolute certainty and solemn sense of purpose , offers a sense of purpose , pride , and identity – not to mention the opportunity to take risks – and provide them with an export of “ home ” anger that deprives them of their rights .
america ’ s muslim status quo underscores the failure of europe .
american muslims , like most americans , still believe in the american dream .
they are mostly middle class , and , despite all the talk of growing economic inequality , they have not given up faith in hard work and proactive us efforts .
the us is a country of immigrants , and its dynamic economy has repeatedly enabled new migrants to succeed .
the opposite is true for europe , where a person ’ s social standing has always been difficult ; and , with the economy stagnating and unemployment alarmingly high , it is understandable that raising social status is more difficult .
in the social sphere , the us also gives muslims some of the tolerance they can not give .
america ’ s fundamental religious culture makes muslims a greater sense of identity than in secular europe .
indeed , the core values of american personal responsibility and constitutional patriotism are more acceptable to muslims than europe ’ s more radical secular liberalism .
as a result , the integration and assimilation of muslim migrants are easier to achieve .
all of this suggests that europe must look inward to address homegrown jihadism effectively .
this does not mean that it must change secularism , much less to change liberal values .
on the contrary , europe must inject new dynamism into the “ european dream , ” ensuring that all people have real opportunities to improve their lives .
otherwise , it will face a lost generation of millions of young europeans – both muslims and the rest of europe .
the new climate economics
new york – the latest assessment of global warming by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) shows that the world ’ s climate scientists are set to define human activities more than ever before – mainly burning fossil fuels – that are stoking temperatures and rising sea levels .
in recent years , a series of extreme weather events – including hurricane sandy in new york and new jersey , floods in china , and droughts in the american midwest , russia , and many developing countries – have caused serious damage .
last week , mexico experienced hurricanes in the pacific and the gulf of mexico , and , in the case of hurricane closures , towns and cities were 俱毁 .
climate change is an important factor in such events , and we are facing a growing situation .
this brings a new debate to the center : how to reconcile a growing number of actions to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions accompanied by strong economic growth .
this debate has been lost in controversy .
most countries are already making serious investments in renewable energy , and many are beginning to implement carbon pricing and regulations , while critics accuse them of impeding growth .
the global economy is still recovering from the financial turmoil of 2008 , higher energy prices – which can not be offset by an increase in energy efficiency – for business and political leaders .
the advent of shale gas makes the energy debate more uncertain .
replacing coal with coal is a shortcut to a low-carbon future .
what is shocking , however , is that the dirtiest fuel – coal – is the dirtiest fuel .
companies and investors , by taking a modest amount of resource efficiency , investing in a few low-carbon assets , but not much change in their high-carbon portfolios and practices .
advocates of stronger action respond , with a much more robust and cleaner growth .
they point out that energy efficiency will save , and the market for clean-energy technologies can lead to market opportunities .
they have sought to prove that a more sustainable development model would provide the world ’ s cities , ( by reducing air pollution ) and providing many benefits to energy security , providing the poor with more energy .
they recommend green bonds , urging the investment bank to use the world ’ s low interest rates to finance new infrastructure and employment , and to fund new infrastructure and employment .
these are serious economic debates , but they often evolve into ideological disputes about the appropriate response to the economic crisis and the values of government intervention markets .
this is regrettable .
climate change is not a partisan struggle , and climate policy is fundamentally market-based .
this is a problem about correcting market failures so that markets and entrepreneurship can play a proper role in ensuring innovation and efficient resource allocation .
to escape this impasse , we helped create the global commission on the economic and climate commission .
the commission ’ s new climate economy project brings together seven leading research institutes in six continents , leading to a panel of experts from the former heads of government , finance ministers , and business leaders of the world ’ s leading economists .
the purpose is to provide new evidence of how governments and businesses can deliver stronger economic growth while addressing climate risks .
few governments or investors are starting on climate change .
they want to boost investment and economic growth , create jobs , stabilize public finances , expand markets , deliver profits , ensure reliable energy and food supplies , produce goods and services , reduce poverty , and build cities .
as a result , the main question we need to ask is not whether to reduce emissions , but how public policy can help to achieve these core goals while reducing emissions and building a climate-resilient economy .
here , too , many experience worldwide can follow .
when the stern review of the economics of climate change was published seven years ago , this topic was largely theoretical .
today , countries at every stage of development are pursuing a new economic-growth model for new thinking .
for example , germany is planning the world ’ s most ambitious low-carbon economy , based on energy efficiency and renewable energy .
south korea is set to develop “ green growth ” as a core economic goal .
mexico ’ s 2012 general law , the general law on climate change , will be used to use a major increase in clean power .
china will develop green technologies as the top priority of its agenda .
ethiopia is seeking to develop low-carbon agriculture .
brazil has dramatically reduced the rate of deforestation in the amazon .
some big firms provide a powerful example of what can be done .
unilever has pledged sustainable agricultural and forest products .
coca-cola is phasing out all kinds of hydrofluorocarbons .
the retail giant wal-mart is driving emissions reduction throughout its supply chain .
at the same time , the world bank and the european investment bank are no longer lending to high-cost coal plants .
but the real problem remains – at how fast the economy can move toward a low-carbon path , and what it means to achieve the most effective .
any structural change includes costs , trade-offs , and uncertainties , and properly understood these factors .
of course , powerful vested interests oppose all low-carbon transitions , suppressing even the beneficiaries of a low-carbon transition .
that means clarifying the choice .
science has clearly demonstrated the urgency of climate problems , and it is time for economists and policymakers to explain how to respond to this urgency .
the click of bluster
cambridge – until recently , the focus on cyber security was mostly computers and 阴谋 .
the internet ’ s creators – which belong to a closed narrow circle – are comfortable with the safety of security concerns .
today , however , there are three billion internet users , which have become serious vulnerabilities ; indeed , it is threatening the internet ’ s vast economic opportunities for the world as a whole .
the “ cyber attack ” could appear in countless forms , including simple probes , 涂鸦 web sites , denial-of-service attacks , espionage , and destruction .
the term “ cyber war ” is also a 千变万化 – though the best definition is that hostilities in the best possible definition is a reflection of a series of “ wars ” from armed conflict to work together , such as the “ 减贫战 . ”
cyber warfare and cyber espionage are mostly linked to states , and cyber crime and cyber terrorism are often issued by non-state actors .
the biggest costs currently come from espionage and crime ; but , over the next decade , cyber warfare and cyber terrorism are likely to pose a greater threat than today .
moreover , the alliance and the evolution of tactics are increasingly overlap .
terrorism can buy malware from criminals , and governments may be taking the strings behind them .
some argue that deterrence is in cyberspace , in cyberspace , because its source is difficult to determine .
but this is facile : inadequate attribution affects deterrence among countries , but deterrence is often used .
even if the source of “ false flags ” can be successfully masked by the source of “ false flags , ” the government may be able to rely on a 对称 relationship that has backfired .
china , for example , may suffer from a loss that severely damaged the us economy , and vice versa .
the unknown attacker can also be deterred by cyber-security efforts .
if the firewall is strong , or redundancy and resilience enough to enable it to recover quickly , or the risk of self-reinforcing response ( “ 电围栏 ” ) , it becomes less attractive to implement attacks .
while accurate attribution of the ultimate source of cyber attacks is sometimes difficult , it is not a mistake .
with false flags and rumors of attacks on the sources of attacks widely regarded as reliable ( though untested ) , the reputational damage to the soft power of attacker soft power could also deter .
finally , the reputation and openness of the 攻击能力 policies also helped to strengthen deterrence .
of course , non-state actors are harder to detect , so improved defenses – such as preemption and human intelligence – have become important in such cases .
but , among states , even nuclear deterrence is more complicated than at first glance , and even more so in cyberspace .
for its part , the internet needs some degree of international cooperation .
some call for the formal arms-control treaty of the internet .
but differences in cultural norms and the difficulty of verification will make such treaties difficult to negotiate and implement .
at the same time , pursuing international rules that prevent conflict is important .
russia and china sought a treaty to establish a comprehensive international oversight of the internet and “ information security , ” which would prohibit fraud and 嵌入 , which can be activated when the war occurs .
but america ’ s view that arms-control efforts to limit 攻击能力 control will weaken defenses against attacks , and are difficult to justify and enforce .
likewise , in terms of political values , the us has rejected agreements that could legitimize authoritarian governments to legitimize the internet – such as the “ great firewall of china . ”
moreover , cultural differences prevent any broad agreement on regulating online content .
nonetheless , it is possible to identify illegal practices such as cyber crime in domestic jurisdictions .
preventing all intrusions may be impossible , but it can start with cyber crime and cyber terrorism involving non-state actors .
to this end , it is in major countries ’ interest to limit damage by agreeing on forensics and controls .
transnational cyberspace poses new questions about the meaning of national security .
some of the most important responses must be national , unilateral , and focused on hygiene , redundancy , and resilience .
but it is very likely that large countries will soon find that the incomplete cooperation created by non-state networks will require close cooperation among governments .
a practical agenda for revolutionary times
oxford – as the world ’ s financial leaders gather at the international monetary fund and the world bank spring meetings , many of the world ’ s working-age people are demanding radical change , because their voices are not heard .
their supposed representatives should not continue to ignore this anger and frustration .
according to the 2017 edelman trust report , public confidence in the status quo has plummeted , owing to widespread concern about globalization , innovation , immigration , social values , and corruption .
at the same time , the reaction of elites who regard themselves as the guardians of economic growth has sometimes made matters worse .
if they believe that they can only explain the benefits of the current global economic system , and to adjust the policy to compensate marginalized groups , they will be met with a wake-up call .
earlier this month , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization issued a joint report detailing trade as a driver of productivity growth , competition , and consumer choice .
this argument is not new , and the recommendations proposed by the report ’ s proposed “ active labor-market policies ” support the recommendations of those who lose jobs and livelihoods .
the new situation is that repeating these views , while addressing people ’ s deeper concerns , is likely to do more harm than good .
global public opinion has changed dramatically in recent years .
most of the world ’ s population – with 72 % of the population in france and italy – now believes that the system has failed them .
moreover , only 29 % of the population in 28 countries trust government leaders , while three-quarters of respondents say they trust reformers who would upend the status quo .
these findings suggest that the defenders of free trade have lost credibility in the crowds they hope to persuade .
world leaders need to recognize that today ’ s populist revolts are being driven by a sense of loss of dignity – a perception that has not been taken into account in most policymakers for economic growth and compensatory payments .
working-class voters , because they feel economically abandoned , are socially despised and culturally despised .
their votes are their only means of fighting the establishment .
addressing public concerns requires a set of agendas .
the first priority is to reach out to the people who feel that no one was listening or represented .
during the us presidential campaign , trump used this sentiment , pledging to punish all companies that move jobs to china or mexico .
the fact that a populist plutocrat can do this has made america ’ s labor movement dead .
the party that came from the labor movement has long gone to the “ center . ”
today , they are accepting the political contributions of large corporations , and they have pursued a banner of shared prosperity and “ consensus politics , ” which makes many jobs that fail to benefit from such a prosperity and consensus .
second , the quality of work , and the status of work , must be improved .
in rich countries , instability , low wages , and even dangerous forms of employment are becoming increasingly common .
a new bloomberg ’ s report on the bloomberg business barometer describes every passing worker in 亚拉巴马州 零件厂 that can earn only $ 7.25 per hour , and it must be safe in hazardous situations .
in 2010 , these workers had 50 % higher 汽车零件 workers than 工人 workers elsewhere .
as the oecd has pointed out , “ non-standard ” work is rising globally .
this trend has led to the deterioration in working conditions , making workers feel increasingly vulnerable and vulnerable .
reversing this will require rigorous standards to ensure that the workplace is safe , fair pay , and the right to participate in collective bargaining arrangements .
governments need to intervene in these criteria , just as they did in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries to improve the environmental environment in factories .
otherwise , businesses will not be able to function decently , because they face the self-defeating race of unscrupulous competitors .
finally , there must be more opportunities for future generations – not just economic opportunities .
since the 2008 financial crisis , many governments have reduced their investments in health , education , housing , and other forms of human capital .
many governments also cut support for the unemployed , homeless , and indebted .
as a result , marginalized groups have been deprived not only of resources , but also from the 机会 .
the imf , the world bank , and the wto argue that free trade and globalization have undoubtedly expanded the size of the economic pie .
in principle , this should boost the government ’ s ability to compensate those left behind and create conditions for them .
indeed , the opposite is true , owing to the government ’ s austerity policies since 2008 .
the establishment ’ s agenda has long failed .
and when elites continue to advocate free trade and globalization , they can only continue to widen the chasm of public trust .
over the past year , this distrust has exploded in many countries , and voters rejected the status quo in a single election .
piecemeal curbs on globalization is not enough to calm the revolt .
instead , world leaders should emerge from their echo chamber , take the public ’ s concerns seriously , diversify their views , and consider why so many have lost faith in the system .
the development costs of homophobia
london – as a gay man living in nigeria , my biggest challenge is to choose between sexual orientation and work .
in 2004 , i began my performance .
at the time , i had just moved away from school and played a role as a “ richard ” ’ s role in expanding television stations in nigeria ’ s most popular television station , the “ richard , ” a wealthy family whose only son was a 罗曼史 .
i am sure that my private life was on the table .
almost immediately , my role was eliminated .
lost jobs also lost financial security .
like many gay men in africa , i must choose between economic freedom and mental imprisonment .
this year , nigeria and uganda have issued draconian anti-gay laws that incited global debates about human rights .
the debate is also underway in the world bank , where president jim yong kim recently announced that “ institutionalized discrimination is bad for human and social . ”
kim ’ s statement has invited criticism and controversy .
normally , as in uganda and nigeria , we tend to hear such voices : against official discrimination against gay , lesbian , bisexual , and transgender , “ western ” values imposed on africa .
but this claim implies that homosexuality is “ not africa . ”
and , while there is no evidence that there is no one in any country or continent without homosexuality , the contrary , and the contrary , many african leaders have taken this view .
in 2006 , nigeria ’ s then-president , olusegun obasanjo , was one of the first leaders to accept this view .
uganda ’ s president yoweri museveni followed suit , signing the anti-gay bill in 2014 .
other leaders , such as 总统 Jammeh , and zimbabwe ’ s president robert mugabe , are equally similar .
these official attitudes have caused africa ’ s gays to suffer .
indeed , in many african countries , the costs of homophobia are obvious : legal damage , social exclusion , mob justice , and so forth .
but this is precisely what africa ’ s anti-gay leaders miss : legal protection is not only a human-rights issue , but also an economic problem .
kim ’ s statement is the right thing to measure , measuring research on the economic costs of homophobia , and to explore the relationship between the law and the exclusion of same-sex sentiment and poverty .
at the world bank meeting in march 2014 , 经济学家 经济学家 , an economist at the university of 安姆赫司 , showed preliminary studies of the economic implications of homophobia in india .
the total cost of health loss alone totaled $ 257 billion in 2012 , owing to the depression , suicide , and aids treatment gaps caused by anti-gay stigma and discrimination .
in addition to these concrete costs , it is possible to become violence , loss of jobs , family exclusion , harassment in schools , and pressure to marry .
as a result , many gay education is low , poor productivity , less income , poor health , and shorter life expectancy .
in nigeria , i founded an independent project for equal rights in 2005 , in order to respond to an increasing number of people who have lost jobs in response to skepticism about their sexuality .
in the first year of the plan , we supported dozens of support .
one young man , “ 奥鲁 奥鲁 , ” was left out for him because she was gay .
another man called “ 乌奇 ” has lost his job for his sexuality .
it helps him to find accommodation and provide capital for a catering business .
for almost ten years , they can not safely use their names .
across africa , the economic costs of discrimination are increasing , and , accordingly , employers , landlords , health-care providers , educators , and others are excluded from lgbt people and others .
today , the world bank and other development agencies are setting priorities for development agendas after the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which will officially end in 2015 , including by promoting gender equality , increasing women ’ s rights as a strategy for economic growth .
looking ahead , the world bank should take the same approach to lgbt rights , with legal protections for sexual orientation and gender identity as conditions for countries receiving loans .
international investment and aid can help to improve economic performance and strengthen respect for basic human rights by working for the same protection to lgbt populations .
the world bank has always worried about its “ politics ” problem , emphasizing that it is not a global human-rights extension .
but it is also increasingly acknowledging its role in helping the bank member states to recognize their human-rights obligations .
lgbt rights should be a test for the bank .
aid to governments that allow specific social groups to be excluded could have a very realistic economic cost .
in considering new loans , steps should be taken to ensure that its benefits are as inclusive as possible .
at the moment , the world bank ’ s lending to nigeria is estimated to be $ 55 billion , and it is expected to increase by $ 2 billion annually in the next four years , and the bank is on track to follow suit .
africa ’ s lgbt people desperately need these powerful allies in the struggle for human rights and economic rights .
democracy in myanmar ?
tokyo – historical transformation has always been surprising .
in the cold war ’ s darkest days , gorbachev launched a liberalizing policy of reform and new thinking , while us president ronald reagan introduced strategic missile defense systems and war proxy wars in afghanistan and elsewhere .
deng xiaoping ’ s economic opening was followed by china ’ s bloody invasion of vietnam in 1978 .
and south africa ’ s last apartheid leader , clark , was initially regarded as yet another defender of the old regime , with few thought that he would unleash mandela and end the minority of whites .
now that the world has suddenly raised questions about myanmar , which , after 60 years of military dictatorship , does burma really begin to move toward the end of the country ’ s real political transition ?
will burma , like south africa ’ s south africa , actually go from a half-century of self-imposed isolation ?
is aung san suu kyi , the heroic leader of the opposition , and the new burma president , 登盛能 , a political transition that mandela and de klerk promoted in south africa in the early 1990 ’ s ?
although suu kyi has endured two decades of house arrest and isolation , the two qualities that have enabled mandela to do great things have been made possible : 心止 and 悲天悯人 .
as myanmar ’ s authorities begin to reform , these qualities and her negotiating skills – and , above all , her moral 居高临下 – will be tested as never before .
moreover , unlike mandela ’ s imprisonment in the 27 years of mandela , suu kyi has had the hope and experience of almost succeeding .
in the mid-1990 ’ s , and between 2002 and 2003 , suu kyi ’ s national democratic league ( nld ) was almost certain to compromise .
in the end , however , hardliners in the system are gaining ground , stifling hope for reform .
but suu kyi and most burmese opposition are beginning to acknowledge that today ’ s political liberalization may be true .
because burma ’ s generals are almost always silent about public opinion , it is difficult to see why they would allow the election of thein sein to take power , and it is difficult to explain why they are willing to talk to the opposition .
recent events have shown a possible explanation : burma ’ s rulers are beginning to worry about stifling positions – and that is the result of the country ’ s international isolation .
indeed , myanmar ’ s public opposition to china ’ s commercial exploitation of the country ’ s natural resources has been so widespread that the government has had to halt the 瓦底 dam projects that might have serious environmental damage .
thein sein ’ s decision to halt the project is clearly a clear policy shift .
moreover , it is signaling that myanmar ’ s new government is more willing to care than all of its predecessors about public pressure and international public opinion – both strongly opposed to dam construction .
at the same time , thein sein has offered a stronger message , suggesting that the government is a totally different government : he unleashed political prisoners and invited suu kyi and his direct talks with him .
in fact , suu kyi now has the most liberal life since her nobel peace prize 20 years ago , and the national democratic league recently declared that the organization will choose the upcoming parliamentary election candidates .
for aung san suu kyi and thein sein , every step that starts now will be delicate , and people will be able to demand the liberalization of their countries ’ liberalization of their countries with the liberalization of their countries .
but the international community must act carefully .
there is no doubt that thein sein ’ s willingness to see a large number of economic and political sanctions imposed on myanmar is being canceled , but it will be premature .
the outside world , however , should make clear : any progress toward greater political openness will receive international political and economic returns .
the japanese investment bank ’ s decision to invest in myanmar ’ s port development – which would be important if the economy is open – is a positive signal that the world will drag on thein sein ’ s progress .
us president barack obama ’ s decision to send secretary of state hillary clinton to burma to meet thein sein is another sign that the world is ready to end myanmar ’ s isolation .
on its immediate neighbor , asean ’ s recent decision to give burma the presidency in 2014 suggests that neighboring countries are also eager to integrate myanmar fully into asia .
now that it is too early to judge , thein sein ’ s decision is taking place at least as far as , for now , thein sein ’ s decision .
fortunately , myanmar has found its own mandela – suu kyi .
a currency devaluation solution
cambridge – this year is likely to be a make-or-break test for the euro .
if the eurozone is to survive , it needs a credible proposal to address its long-standing sovereign-debt crisis , which , in turn , requires addressing external imbalances and fiscal imbalances , which are at the heart of the crisis .
the crisis has exposed a significant gap in economic competitiveness within the eurozone .
from 1996 to 2010 , germany ’ s unit labor costs rose 8 % , with france rising 13 % , compared to 24 % in portugal , 35 % in spain , 37 % in italy , and 59 % in greece .
the problem is compounded by the fact that the eurozone ’ s internal trade deficit and public debt are large , owing to the fact that the problem is much more complicated for foreign creditors .
should the eurozone ’ s disintegration solve these imbalances ?
if portugal exits the eurozone , reintroducing a 埃斯库多 ( portuguese currency unit ) , the subsequent exchange-rate depreciation would have reduced the price of exports in portugal , with import prices rising , fueling much-needed economic growth .
but leaving the euro would be a tricky affair , given that the financial turmoil that it brings will outweigh any short-term gains in the competitiveness of any currency .
with such a simple solution , southern europe ’ s economic difficulties need not give up the euro , or to discount their exchange rates .
this would include raising the value-added tax , while cutting payroll taxes .
recent research shows that such “ fiscal devaluations , ” whether in gdp , consumption , or employment and inflation , have the impact on the economy ’ s exchange rate relative to undervaluation .
currency depreciation works , because it would make imports more expensive , export goods cheaper , and higher vat , and reduce payroll taxes .
raising the value-added tax would raise the prices of imported goods , with foreign firms facing higher tariffs .
to ensure that domestic firms do not raise prices , they will have to cut the payroll tax , while raising the value-added tax .
moreover , because exports are exempt from vat , the price of domestic exports will fall .
since then , even without leaving the eurozone , the exchange rate has depreciated , and it would enhance economic competitiveness and gain the same effect .
this policy also helps .
exchange-rate devaluations do strengthen competitiveness , which has positive effects on economic growth , improving the fiscal position by raising taxes .
moreover , an important advantage of fiscal devaluations lies in the additional revenue that the country ’ s trade deficit is on .
fiscal devaluations , as well as exchange-rate devaluations , have winners and losers .
both have the role of wealth leverage : inflation means that bondholders suffer from actual losses , which are commensurate with how much their wealth is commensurate with their wealth .
if the capital tax is not adjusted , domestic equity holders suffer similar losses .
by comparison , many transfers , such as unemployment benefits , health benefits , public pensions , and so on inflation , have sustained its real value .
the same is true of the minimum wage .
the impact of these allocations on the exchange rate has played an important political role in weakening exchange rates , which are reflected in the fiscal devaluation .
the fiscal devaluations have received some advocates .
indeed , french president nicolas sarkozy ’ s government has just announced a plan of fiscal depreciation .
if some worry that fiscal devaluations will clash with one another , the german government has been able to take a similar initiative , in 2007 , by implementing a similar program ( without public clarity ) in 2007 .
in short , there are other simple fiscal proposals to address southern europe ’ s short-term competitiveness problems , except for exchange-rate depreciation .
to be sure , feasible fiscal devaluations must be put in place to limit their size .
but , with debt restructuring , loose monetary policy , the ecb ’ s liquidity support , and the necessary structural reforms , these feasible fiscal devaluations can be achieved in the eurozone , without triggering a severe economic downturn stemming from austerity .
a dissident in china
tokyo – for china , 2009 was a good year .
in the image of a global recession , china ’ s economy is the tip of the world economy , a sharp leap forward ; us president barack obama was more like a man who , in his china ’ s visit to the imperial court , has been able to do so , not to mention the country ’ s most powerful global superpower .
the chinese government , under the communist leadership , has good reason to feel confident .
why , then , has a gentle old literary professor ( liu xiaobo ) been sentenced to a prison sentence for free speech and the end of one-party rule ?
liu was a petition for the 2008 petition , a common author of the book charter , which had already secured thousands of signatures .
liu was not a violent rebel , expressed in the articles expressed in the internet , and entirely devoid of 气 .
nonetheless , he was jailed for “ inciting subversion of state power . ”
it is patently absurd that liu xiaobo , or the ability to overturn the ccp ’ s huge power , is patently absurd .
the authorities , however , have apparently believed that they had to be honored , to prevent others from expressing similar views .
why is it perceived to be so dangerous for a purely consolidated regime , or even a petition for peace ?
that may be because the regime is not as secure as it seems .
without legitimacy , any government can not rule .
a wide variety of legitimacy is given to the political system : liberal democracy is only a recent innovation , often based on a hereditary monarchy that has historically been based on a totalitarian monarchy that has historically prevailed in some modern dictators , such as robert mugabe .
china has changed dramatically over the past century , but , in one respect , it has remained : a religious notion of politics remains the country .
the legitimacy of this view is not based on giving , bargaining , and the necessary compromises ; these forms of behavior form the basis of economic dogma , which is a pillar of the liberal democratic system .
on the contrary , the cornerstone of religious politics is a shared belief that is enforced by ideological legitimacy .
the ideal of the confucian state is to “ harmony . ”
if everyone follows a particular belief , including a moral code of behavior , conflicts will disappear .
in such an ideal system , ruled , as children obey their father , naturally obey rulers .
after the revolutions of the early decades of the twentieth century , confucianism was replaced by chinese-style communism .
marxism is attractive for chinese intellectuals , because it is in a sense of 气息 , introducing a modern moral orthodoxy ; and , in the form of marxism and confucianism , the conflict was based on a promise of perfect harmony : in communism ’ s utopian utopia , there would be no conflict .
chairman mao ’ s rule was a combination of the chinese imperial system with communist totalitarianism .
yet this orthodoxy is bound to fade away .
few chinese are still faithful devotees of marxism , and even in the communist party ’ s top ranks .
this left a ideological vacuum , which was quickly occupied by greed , corruption , and cynicism in the 1980 ’ s .
that crisis led to protests across all of china , and they were 笼而统之 as “ tiananmen square . ”
liu xiaobo was a vocal spokesman for student corruption in 1989 , and demanded a more liberal campaign for freedom .
soon after the bloody crackdown on tiananmen , a new orthodoxy replaced chinese marxism , which was china ’ s nationalism .
only one-party rule ensures that china will continue to rise , and for centuries of national humiliation ; the communist party represented a great power in china .
it is a mistake to hold doubt on the point of suspicion , or even “ anti-chinese ” behavior .
in doing so , liu ’ s critique is indeed subversive .
these views cast doubt on the official orthodoxy , and thus raised questions about the legitimacy of the state .
many people ’ s rejection of the chinese government ’ s refusal to negotiate with students in 1989 , or to the critics of today ’ s critics , is a misunderstanding of religious politics .
negotiations , compromise , and accommodation are a feature of economic politics , which can be traced ; in contrast , it is impossible to assume the price of negotiations .
this does not mean that economic dogma is an entirely unfamiliar model for chinese , and that , too , does not mean that religious politics is somehow religious .
in china , however , the insistence on orthodoxy remains strong enough to continue to serve as a default against political critics .
these developments can be reversed .
other confucian societies , such as south korea , taiwan , and japan , now have a thriving liberal democracy , with no reason to believe that china can not experience such a transition .
but external pressure is unlikely to bring about such change .
many foreign people , including me , have signed a letter on the jailing of liu xiaobo .
people are just hoping that this would be comfortable , and the moral inspiration for those who are working with liu was a moral inspiration ; but , for those who believe the prevailing orthodoxy in china , that move is unlikely to be shaken .
until china is liberated from religious politics , liu ’ s ideas are unlikely to take root .
this does not bode well for china ( and , indeed , the rest of the world ) .
the 禁毒 war on drugs
the hague – the war in afghanistan has been on the horizon for a decade , and it is likely that latin america has endured a much longer war , while latin america has endured a more protracted war and even more bloody : the “ war ” against drug trafficking .
building a “ stronger , more adaptable society ” is a new strategy for us secretary of state hillary clinton to promote a new strategy that has been linked to the rise in drug trafficking , which has been reported in 2006 , with the release of the 墨西哥政府 ’ s murder .
ciudad juárez , a sprawling mexican border town , is now the world ’ s homicide , and it must be at the top of the list .
four bridges and 排水沟 tunnels in juárez and texas are linked to four bridges .
a cartel with a competitive relationship is a name for control of the squares and killing security forces , and the squares were called for any drug route .
there is clearly no shortage of young men who are willing to join the carnage .
but it is far more difficult to address the urban and economic problems of a city like juárez , where some 8,000 soldiers are carrying assault rifles .
to this end , mexican president felipe calderón ’ s continued penchant for the war on drugs in bolivia , colombia , or peru , which had used military force and extradition to defuse america ’ s rage and punish the poor , would punish the poor and penalize the poor .
but the language used by the obama administration to describe the violence and state corruption that flow from the andes to the us border is beginning to seize the new thinking on drugs .
it is worth remembering that three former latin american presidents , mexico ’ s second-largest billionaire ricardo ricardo , and argentina ’ s supreme court have criticized the war on drugs as an obvious failure , with a real estate price , driving up drug production , and undermining the weaker countries .
more surprising , both bolivia and ecuador are the direct victims of the drug war ’ s neglected victims .
evo morales , bolivia ’ s president evo morales , emerged as leader of the country ’ s coca growers who are the country ’ s coca growers , the so-called dignity plan .
and ecuador ’ s president , rafael correa , has been jailed for smuggling drugs in the future only by age five .
the eu , like these leaders , has a paradoxical psychological dimension to the goals of illegal drugs , which have eased restrictions on drug consumption over the last few decades .
moreover , the original three us presidents have acknowledged that more or less use of illegal spirit to stimulate drug use , according to the united nations , is a regular cocaine user .
but the inertia of the management of the law of drug law ( in both the united states and the european union ) , fueled by fear of the “ threat ” of drugs and cartels , seems to have been driven by time and again , driven by “ threats ” to the drug and cartels .
for example , the united states ’ support for the cartels ’ campaign against mexico appears to be set in motion , with congress apparently ready to provide $ 300 million for another year ’ s military and security upgrading .
people plan to build seven joint military installations in colombia , and the support of us private contractors in the market for a monopoly plant could not be destabilized .
nonetheless , as the flaws in the 禁毒 edifice become more apparent , it is increasingly difficult to argue that the risk of drug use is more difficult than repression .
drug policy has contributed to an increase in the price of the drug , with a staggering 15,000 % of cocaine transport to europe from andean processing facilities .
while the war on drugs focuses on destroying cartels and their main figures , it has perversely facilitated the health of the market markets caught in legal trade flows and respond to price incentives .
in an interview with mexico ’ s magazine “ Proceso , ” the largest number of 人物 cartel , the largest 卡特尔 cartel , was made clear : “ the drug problem involves millions of people .
how can such a question be controlled ?
leading men can be jailed , killed , or extradited , but the replacement is already around the corner . ”
the presence of latin america ’ s powerful drug gangs is not the result of the radical evil of some individuals .
these are the natural conditions that naturally arise in the social conditions created by a 滥用权力 , capricious , and bureaucratic war .
indeed , mexico ’ s 齐塔 nemesis was originally trained in the counter-insurgency training provided by the 1990s to select special forces , and then fled the special forces .
in recent years , 明星 新锐 , a star of 明星 新锐 , has a special presence in guatemala , whose infamous 入门 technique was the head of a 咬掉 .
meanwhile , in jamaica and the rural frontier in central america , drug lords are playing the young and heroic role for the poor .
the time to revisit the situation and the integrity of illicit drugs is to consider selective legalization , not criminal considerations .
a global “ new deal ” ?
athens – the international monetary fund belatedly acknowledged that it grossly underestimated the damage that austerity poses to the eu ’ s growth rate , which suggests that the “ orthodox ” prescription for addressing the debt crises that occurred after the 2008-2009 financial crisis is self-defeating .
conventional wisdom suggests that , for individual countries ( or a group of countries ) , consolidation means lower interest rates , currency depreciation , and improved trade .
but , given that this can not happen simultaneously in all major economies – a country ( or a group of countries ) – the demand for such policies will eventually lead to a beggar-thy-neighbor scenario .
indeed , keynes opposed this dynamic precisely because it led to the great depression of the 1930 ’ s .
one component of today ’ s problems is that private demand in the developed world ( especially household consumption ) is weak , inadequate to compensate for the loss of demand from austerity .
for the past 20 years , consumption has driven these countries ’ economic growth , with its share of gdp reaching record highs .
moreover , major developed countries such as the united states , germany , and japan face an aging , long-term fiscal problem that is too large for the long term , straining their needs .
the current policy of monetary easing is right , but it has not been a game changer so far .
because domestic demand is the engine of growth , policies should shift resources from investment to consumption .
despite the size of the size of the size , it must be done , and it will lead to lower quality of growth , high unemployment , and the loss of life in the world ’ s poorest .
international economic policy coordination should be emphasized in order to respond effectively to changes in such a scale .
start with europe .
there is no doubt that austerity and domestic reform will not be enough to tip the eurozone ’ s periphery into recession .
it is increasingly recognized that the current policy is failing , which is causing social discontent , domestic disorder , and political instability to end the latest italian election and the growing resistance to greek reform efforts .
to bring back the eurozone ’ s periphery to growth , structural reforms and fiscal consolidation are not enough .
the eurozone ’ s economic governance system must also have radical reforms , aimed at restoring financial stability , reducing borrowing rates , while boosting external demand to offset the consequences of austerity .
reforming governance means a significant step toward economic union : through eurobonds , which would mobilize enough rescue funds ; allowing the ecb to intervene in the bond market ; and establish fiscal and banking coalitions .
this seems unlikely , because most eu member states are reluctant to cede power to european institutions .
but europe should be committed to this direction .
otherwise , speculation about member states ’ national debt will not stop , leading to borrowing costs at levels that are inconsistent with maintaining economic recovery .
when it comes to external demand , intra-european aid within a strong country is unlikely to be sufficient , owing mainly to domestic fiscal and political conditions .
the european internal version of marshall plan , adopted by mobilizing eu budget resources and increasing the european investment bank ’ s lending to the weaker countries ’ financial investments , could be an alternative , but without political support .
globally , neither the us nor japan has provided significant external stimulus .
only asia ’ s emerging and developing countries can effectively boost global demand by pursuing policies aimed at boosting domestic consumption – which , in turn , could spur more investment .
the imf ’ s latest experience suggests that , through appropriate coordination , private funds can mobilize participation in large companies , combining demand expansion and infrastructure investment .
in other words , we need a global “ new deal ” – combining policies aimed at an orderly and orderly global consumption and investment .
advanced countries should promote productivity-enhancing structural reforms with renewed vigor .
the eurozone should solidify its monetary union .
to make this new deal possible , some preconditions must be met .
first , the g20 must intensify international policy coordination , which can be considered by establishing a permanent secretariat to consider policy proposals and recommendations for macroeconomic and financial development .
the secretariat should be actively cooperating with the imf to analyze the results of the latter , especially with regard to exchange rates .
second , global financial reform must be accelerated .
the financial sector needs to strengthen regulation , strengthen oversight , and require international consensus mechanisms to address problems caused by too big ( or too complex ) to address the problems posed by large , global institutions .
such reforms are essential if the international financial system is to become a massive resource source ( and that is the basis for the changing structure of global demand ) .
finally , a new trade pact – which may be ( but not necessarily ) in doha – is to ensure that major trade powers can enter the foreign market .
this is vital to inspire confidence in asian countries , and to persuade them to develop internal , rather than external , sources of demand .
moreover , trade liberalization would also increase consumer confidence worldwide .
the new global agreement is at the time that the goal should be to boost growth , eliminate crises in some parts of the world , and rebalance the global economy so that it returned to a strong , robust growth path .
the other financial crisis
newport beach – the two variants of the financial crisis are continuing to wreak havoc on the west economy , exacerbating unemployment and poverty : a financial crisis that we often read in the newspapers ; and the other is not the same as the crises of the other .
before the two crises are addressed properly , the west will continue to bear the burden of losing growth , persistently high unemployment , and excessive wealth and wealth .
the sovereign-debt crisis is well known .
to avoid a depression , governments have implemented fiscal and monetary stimulus during the global financial crisis .
it succeeded in offsetting the severe economic dislocations caused by the private sector ’ s deleveraging , but it is in order to disrupt its fiscal balance and the costs of destabilizing central banks ’ balance sheets .
while the quality of sovereign credit has deteriorated almost completely – and it is likely to continue to deteriorate – its impact on countries is different .
some western countries – for example , greece – were at first a bad government accounting for their government ’ s books , so soon a crisis of secular continuity is long .
these countries will remain mired in crisis , even a long period of hope for their citizens .
other countries have been fiscally responsible for the past , but they are unable to cope with the debt ( for example , in ireland ’ s budget ) that they have incurred .
other countries – including the united states – have no direct threat , but are unable to make progress on some long-term issues , and several countries like germany have deep economic and financial resilience through years of fiscal discipline and institutional reforms .
it is not surprising that countries ’ responses vary .
but , in fact , these policies have only one ( and disappointing ) common denominator : the inability to rely on rapid economic growth to deleverage for its excessive debt .
greece has actually defaulted on some debt .
ireland and britain have opted for austerity and reform .
the us is gradually transferring resources from creditors to debtors through financial repression .
and germany is gradually adapting to a steady relative expansion of domestic demand .
so much of what i think about sovereign-debt crises , because the impact on its national , regional , and global implications is abundant enough .
after all , it was called sovereignty , because they have the power to collect , regulate , or even extreme .
and , as i know , small and medium-size enterprises in the west have experienced a significant decline in credit access – not only to new financing , but also to newer credit lines and ability to borrow and borrow .
the immediate causes of this credit crisis are clear .
its range covers the banks ’ efforts to curb lending to unusually risky risk aversion , from credit instruments to the collapse of credit intermediation to some institutions .
this credit constraint is one reason why many countries ’ unemployment rates have continued to rise – often at a worrisome level , for example , with 25 % unemployment in greece and spain ( where youth unemployment is already above 50 % ) – and a high rate of unemployment in countries like the united states ( which is not high in the united states ) .
this is not just a problem of productivity loss and rising poverty ; long-term unemployment also leads to social unrest , mistrust of domestic political leaders , and the risk of a lost generation .
indeed , unemployment data in many advanced countries are largely characterized by long-term unemployment ( often defined as six months or more ) .
the gradual loss of skills is a problem for those who had previously worked , and the first employment unsuccessful means not only that unemployment is so simple , but also the risk of not hiring .
governments have done too little to address the private credit crisis .
in theory , they must first address the sovereign debt of the crisis ; yet it is not yet clear whether most officials have set a comprehensive plan .
policy asymmetry among countries most acutely affected by the sovereign-debt crisis is most glaring .
in these countries , governments have largely left the private sector to fend for ; most households and businesses are struggling , so that the long-term economic collapse has intensified .
other countries have embraced a “ land of 寻梦 ” – known as “ the establishment of the platform , ” which has been “ built ” – to deal with private credit markets , such as in the us , where the fed ’ s policy measures , for example , reduce interest rates on mortgage mortgages .
the ecb is also taking an indirect approach .
in both places , however , other policymaking entities with more powerful tools seem neither willing nor able to assume their role .
in this case , the central bank ’ s actions will remain insufficient to gain traction .
in fact , only the uk has made clear that a more coordinated and direct way to offset the long-term shortfalls caused by the private credit crisis would be to offset the long-term shortfalls caused by the private credit crisis .
the “ lending package ” designed by the united kingdom to join banks and finance ministries was designed to “ increase the incentive for banks and building societies to lend to the uk ’ s families and non-financial firms , ” while also requiring responsibility for their actions .
british examples matter ; but , given the scope and scale of the challenges , the proposal is relatively conservative .
this program may spur some beneficial credit intermediation , but it can not have a major impact on the factors that continue to impede strong economic recovery .
the proper access to credit for the production sector is essential for a well-functioning economy .
otherwise , economic growth will be depleted , and it can not create full employment , rising wealth and income inequality , and erode social fabric .
that is why any comprehensive approach to restoring the economy and financial dynamism in the advanced countries must focus on the proper resumption of private credit flows .
toxic politics and better economics
new york – the relationship between politics and economics is changing .
developed-country politicians are trapped in a strange and often harmful conflict , rather than in an increasingly consistent economic consensus about how to escape an era of low inequality .
this trend must be reversed , or it will undermine the structure of the advanced economies , and to put emerging economies into trouble .
obviously , political infighting is not new .
but , until recently , people believed that if professional economists were able to agree on a given policy approach , political leaders can listen .
even if more radical parties try to pursue a different agenda , powerful forces – whether from the g7 governments to exhortations , private capital markets , or the strings of the international monetary fund and the world bank – are almost always sure that a common approach will eventually prevail .
the multilateral institutions have adopted the washington consensus mechanism amplified by the washington consensus , which drives the broader process of economic and financial globalization .
the incoming government – especially those that are governed by non-traditional movements – is able to rely on domestic anxiety and frustration with the prevailing political parties – sometimes the appropriateness and relevance of the washington consensus .
but , as brazil ’ s president 卢拉以 卢拉以 demonstrated in his 2002 policy priorities , the washington consensus is usually a triumph , and has long dominated the script until greek prime minister alexis tsipras took a similarly dramatic turn .
but after years of unusually sluggish and strikingly non-inclusive growth , the washington consensus is unraveling .
advanced-country citizens ’ citizens have been disappointed by the “ establishment ” – including economic “ experts , ” mainstream political leaders , major multinational corporations – and increasingly blame them for economic hardship .
anti-establishment movements and figures quickly seized this frustration , using inflammatory and even 战斗性 rhetoric to win support .
they do not even need to win elections to disrupt the transmission mechanism between economics and politics .
in june , britain was discredited by the brexit vote – a decision that directly repudiated the economic consensus that remained in the eu ’ s best interests .
the reason for the united kingdom ’ s referendum was that , in 2013 , then-prime minister david cameron feared that he could not secure his conservative party ’ s base in the year .
so he used the temptation to hold a referendum on euroskeptic voters .
why should cameron worry ?
the political disruptions created by the uk independence party ( ukip ) , the anti-establishment british independence party , won only a seat in parliament , and then in a muddle .
now , the floodgates have opened .
at the recent conservative conference , prime minister theresa may and his cabinet members suggest that they are prepared to pursue “ hard brexit , ” which would make trade arrangements that would benefit the uk economy .
they also attacked the “ international elite , ” and the bank of england ’ s policy played a central role in stabilizing the british economy , with the bank of england ’ s policy having succeeded in creating a coherent brexit strategy .
other advanced economies are experiencing similar political developments .
in germany , the far-right alternative für deutschland has performed unexpectedly in recent state elections , and it has already begun to influence the german government ’ s behavior .
in the united states , the fact that even donald trump ’ s campaign can not bring the republican party back to the white house ( an increasingly unusual possibility of a presidential campaign that has lately been masked by a remarkable presidential campaign ) could have lasting implications for american politics .
if management is mismanaged , italy ’ s constitutional referendum in december – prime minister matteo renzi ’ s government to consolidate his support for his support – would be counterproductive , as cameron ’ s referendum proposals have done , impeding effective action to address italy ’ s economic challenges .
make no mistake : credible and credible policy options are available .
after years of mediocre economic performance , a broad consensus is that the excessive reliance on unconventional monetary policy is needed .
as imf managing director christine lagarde put it , “ central banks can not be the only game . ”
but they are .
in the only game that i published in january , i argued that countries need a more comprehensive policy approach , including pro-growth structural reforms , more balanced demand management , and better cross-border policy coordination and organizational coordination .
and there is a need to address serious excessive debt problems – the ongoing greek crisis highlighted this – the disruptive impact of the problem extends far beyond the immediate victims .
the new consensus on these issues is good news .
but , in the current political environment , translating this consensus into action could be too slow or impossible to achieve .
the risk is that , as bad politics crowds out good economics , popular anger and discontent will intensify , making politics more harmful .
we want enlightened political leadership to take full control of the game , and voluntarily put in place the 中途 , lest clear economic and financial crises compel policymakers to focus on minimizing the impact .
new haven – one of the most recent surprises of inflation is real .
in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( cpi ) , which excludes food and energy , has returned to a downward trajectory .
in the three months ending in may , the core consumer price index remained unchanged , keeping it at 1.7 percentage points above its previous year .
for the us economy , which is widely believed to have reached full employment , this is a damning mistake – and the most embarrassing is that the fed , the most embarrassed , is trying to bring inflation back to 2 % .
on the other side of the world , a similar story is continuing in japan .
but the story is much tougher for japan ’ s highly prone to deflation .
in april , japan ’ s core consumer price index was basically flat , and the economic performance of tokyo ’ s metropolitan areas showed that may .
for the bank of japan ( boj ) , which used unprecedented unconventional policy buffers to stem the cumulative 年 of deflation ( 1994 ) , it is not just a cold 冷水 , but a fiasco .
the story applies to global reach .
of course , there are notable examples – such as the united kingdom , currency pressure , and a one-time holiday distortion – to the core inflation rate to 2.4 % , as well as malaysia ’ s elimination of the overall inflation rate , but the core inflation rate is at around 2.5 % .
but they are exceptions in the inflationless world .
the imf ’ s latest forecast suggests this .
despite the global economy ’ s modest growth , the advanced economies ’ inflation levels are expected to be just below 2 % in 2017-2018 .
the story of this story was written years ago in japan .
from asset bubbles and excessive leverage to the exchange rate and declining productivity , japan ’ s experience – the so-called “ lost decade ” – shows that a large economy may have made all the mistakes that a large economy could make .
but no lesson is much more profound than a series of policy mistakes made by the boj .
not only is the use of reckless monetary easing laying the groundwork for japan ’ s decline ; the country ’ s central bank will also cut policy rates to zero ( or even lower ) , implementing qe and manipulating long-term interest rates to revive the economy .
this creates an unhealthy dependency .
while japan has learned many lessons since the early 1990 ’ s , the rest of the world has ignored it .
the research papers have written countless , seminars , and , as former us federal reserve chairman ben bernanke promised , never will repeat japan .
yet another major central bank – especially the us federal reserve and the european central bank – will suddenly follow , with the equally dire consequences .
the inflation surprise of 2017 provides three key insights .
first , the relationship between inflation and depression – the so-called phillips curve – has broken down .
as a result of the so-called “ second partition ” of globalization ’ s “ second division , ” the world is replete with excess supply and increasingly decentralized global supply chains .
the outsourcing of these supply chains greatly expanded the global supply curve , radically altering the concept of slack in labor and product markets , and the inflationary pressures of such depressions .
second , today ’ s globalization is inherently asymmetric .
as a result of a variety of factors – the ongoing recession in japan and the us – domestic precautionary saving , combined with weak consumption in europe ’ s productivity , has been severely impaired .
then , in the context of ever-expanding supply , the imbalances are inherently deflationary .
third , central banks are powerless to respond to the changes in the so-called 流动性 liquidity trap .
sound familiar ?
today , the use of 新花招 is a growing global supply curve .
this makes today ’ s central banks more impotent than they were in the 1930 ’ s .
this is not an incurable disease .
in a globalized world – apart from protectionism led by the us 主义者 – the solution should focus on the demand side of the equation .
the most important lesson from the 1930 ’ s , and from the experience of modern japan , is that monetary policy can hardly afford a long-term lack of aggregate demand .
addressing this problem primarily depends on the financial sector , and the idea that central banks should consider renewed promises to raise its inflation target is unreliable .
at the same time , fed chair janet yellen has made the right decision , pushing for the fed ’ s policy normalization , ending a trial that is long overdue , owing to the futility of doing nothing .
the danger has been that when it comes to unconventional monetary easing , it will not gain traction in the real economy , which has injected liquidity into the us and global financial markets , which led to asset bubbles , reckless financial risk-taking , and the next crisis .
moreover , because unconventional easing is designed for a strategy that no longer exists , the fed has made no ammunition to deal with the inevitable next recession and crisis .
our neglect of history is very dangerous .
the recent disappointment of central banks targeting inflation is not a surprise , and the related decline in long-term interest rates is similar .
a careful look at japan ’ s lessons must benefit considerably .
a stop in europe
princeton – in a forthcoming speech , german chancellor gauck gauck conceded that the growing level of inequality among member states is generating “ disturbing feelings , even false anger , ” which increases the risk of state humiliation .
he points out that , in addition to the economic crisis , there is “ a crisis of confidence in a european political project . ”
while gauck stated that he remains a staunch pro-european , he emphasized the need for a deep european future , particularly the eurozone ’ s future .
on the cusp of further integration , europeans hesitate , “ don ’ t know whether we should be moving forward . ”
he has said that to quell this hesitation is a symptom of a deep sense of “ more europe . ”
gauck may not go far enough : an ever-closer union is likely to be a 政治婚姻 .
any meaningful progress that makes the eurozone more stable will require a significant – and largely open – fiscal commitment , and the eu is not ready to cross the threshold of one threshold .
repeatedly pretending to move forward , then a tipping point back then , increases political uncertainty and economic vulnerability .
it is now not encouraging to pursue a more unified time , but to restore the effective sovereignty of eurozone authorities .
doing so would alleviate anxiety in the short term , thereby giving europe a restructuring opportunity to prepare for a more integrated europe and a stronger euro .
to this end , eurozone leaders must implement three fundamental measures .
dysfunctional european fiscal governance should be abolished ; fiscal responsibility should be returned to member states ; and , in order to minimize the future of excessive borrowing , private creditors should be charged with the loss of unsustainable sovereign debt .
the problem with europe ’ s fiscal governance is clear .
before the crisis , the single-minded emphasis on limiting the budget deficit to 3 % of gdp led to the abuse of this approach .
the german and french economies , such as germany and france , openly ridiculed this goal , while others manipulate the numbers ( that is , the eurozone ’ s common phenomenon , not just greece ) .
after the crisis erupted , 3 % of the deficit was the focus of unrelenting austerity – a form that the anthropologist coined as “ 内卷化 , ” which occurs when a process arises from external or internal pressures .
in other words , eu leaders have begun to strengthen fiscal governance , ultimately creating the inevitable inefficiency and bureaucratic conundrum .
as fiscal metrics become more complex , monitoring of fiscal behavior is becoming increasingly easy to undermine .
the question of returning fiscal responsibility to national authorities is also large – not least because centralized fiscal authorities have proved highly ineffective .
the people of troubled countries bear the fiscal burden of the crisis , so that they are irresponsible to claim that they are irresponsible .
the current strategy of exchanging good behavior in favor of good behavior encourages a game of purpose .
despite the government ’ s risk of fiscal temptation , the people ’ s suffering is likely to contain future excesses .
national fiscal sovereignty promotes the final key measures : the creation of more sophisticated relationships with private creditors .
the eurozone is the creation of the “ no bailout ” principle : if member states can not repay their debts , creditors must bear the losses .
but the creditors chose to disregard this threat – the fact that they are right .
instead of imposing a precedent for bailing out the no-bailout principle , debtor countries use official loans to service private creditors .
as a result , these countries have pushed themselves into sustained austerity , low growth , and high debt while cutting off any future incentive to impose fiscal discipline on sovereign borrowers .
unless the burden of this burden is placed on private creditors , debtor countries can not escape their debt .
in the us , states are responsible for their fiscal management , without having to comply with the single model .
states are not regulated by the federal government ; they are constrained by the recognition of their debt .
the system worked well : in contrast to the eurozone ’ s fragile member states , the us states have sharply reduced deficits and debt ratios .
so far , european integration is largely a process of “ walking forward , ” and every drop becomes a lesson of a stronger union .
but this uncertain approach may be enough to claim that the basis for good intentions , but it does not inspire the confidence needed to make the profound fiscal commitments that countries urgently need .
europeans deserve a chance to regain their footing .
the return to fiscal responsibility to national authorities means not only the end of the fiscal situation , but also the sense of frustration and the lack of a meaningful sense of representation , which is a breeding ground for the euro pessimism .
simply put , taking back a step would be an opportunity to reset , rethink , and engineer a more stable and integrated europe .
for a fiscal union that can work – however unlikely – a solid foundation is essential .
as the 高克所 explained , europeans “ are pausing ... the next step , ” and the next step ( itself ) , the next step , is to enter uncharted territory . ”
giving europeans time and space to choose a more europe would help to strengthen the core values that underpin integration for more than six decades .
continuing to stumble forward , however , inevitably leads to weakness or even decline .
a european-style cure for the balkan downturn
vienna – much of europe ’ s politics is shaped by events and anniversaries .
but while events are often unpredictable , anniversaries are not .
after five years , europe will mark the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of world war i , which did not only lead to other events , but also through a series of events that led to the emergence of today ’ s eyes .
it is not hard to imagine that sarajevo will be the site of the brutal and bloody twentieth century of the twentieth century .
but what in five years will sarajevo be in five ?
will it still be the capital of the country ’ s citizens , whose citizens have totally lost touch with voters , and whose politicians have totally lost touch with the electorate ?
or is there any chance that european leaders will draw the anniversary , declaring that the remaining balkan countries have been integrated into the eu ?
but , just as recently , a survey of gallup europe has delivered 20 years since the fall of the berlin wall and a decade of war in kosovo , in serbia , 黑山共和国 , macedonia , albania , croatia , bosnia , and herzegovina .
and the findings seem to indicate that the next five years will be a key moment for the region ’ s future development .
the report shows that , while the vast majority of citizens believe that further armed conflict within the region is unlikely , the public ’ s mood – except kosovo and albania – is bleak .
the only thing they can offer is peace , and development is nowhere near .
trust in political elites , state institutions , and eu institutions is declining .
just last year , the majority of citizens suffered a decline in living standards , and it was still thought that there were more opportunities abroad .
the rate of pessimism among young people is alarmingly high , and government corruption and mismanagement are considered widespread .
so those who are worthy of praise for the region ’ s stability are worth watching .
indeed , most citizens of bosnia and herzegovina believe that their leaders are not interested in joining the eu .
the majority of citizens who are surveyed believe that their country is wrong .
less than a decade of croats ( the country will join the eu in the near future ) believes that their country is on track .
the region is now facing two options : the choice of “ shock consolidation ” to integrate all of the balkan west into the european union , and , for good or worse , for all of the eu ’ s countries , but the expectation is that these countries would be extremely dangerous .
so the eu ’ s goal in the region should not be the “ stability of stability . ”
and the eu will have more problems in the future if it continues to operate in places like bosnia and kosovo , where the benefits of the future can not be fulfilled .
for serbia , in particular , the old doctrine of non-alignment will be central to the country ’ s foreign and security policy if the delay is delayed .
as the best and brightest believe that their future is in a distant country , the chaos in the balkans will breed its own dynamic when “ stability ” is only synonymous with political and economic stagnation .
so if europe ’ s leaders do plan to meet in sarajevo in 2014 , they now need to act .
in fact , the lisbon treaty has added a long-term vision of european politics to a long-term vision of european politics , and the enlargement of the eu is no longer institutional obstacles .
today , unlike a year ago , we have been able to understand how many countries in the balkans have , and the balkan watch results indicate that these countries want to join the eu .
in addition to what the eu ’ s recent parliamentary elections have learned from the recent parliamentary elections in bulgaria , in contrast to conventional thinking , the impact on these countries ’ influence in brussels is growing .
the fact that the eu ’ s decision to ease serbia ’ s visa restrictions on serbia , 黑山共和国 , and macedonia – and , as george 帕 , the eu ’ s leading architect of the eu ’ s balkan integration strategy – is a source of optimism .
for the balkans , either they are now joined or never joined .
relaxing a visa would be a strategic step toward “ shock integration , ” but if the eu fails to make clear political action , it is just a new one .
in short , the moment of world war i ’ s 100 anniversary was not just the commemoration , but timing .
closing europe ’ s strategic gap
but there is a problem with almost no one : russia ’ s annexation of crimea and the invasion of eastern ukraine mean what europe ’ s foreign policy has meant for european foreign policy .
in the early stages of the crisis , germany , which had made great bets on russia , opposed any action that could have consequences .
but , as the crisis deepens , german chancellor angela merkel managed to persuade its european counterparts to implement a broad and draconian sanctions .
this is undoubtedly a step in defense of defense , but failed foreign-policy approaches to addressing the ukraine crisis , the failure of europe ’ s response to the european union , and the chaotic energy approach – that europe ’ s misguided neighborhood policy ( enp ) – will not help .
on both fronts , europe has a lack of strategic vision that gives people the impression that russian president vladimir putin is playing with applause .
the crisis in ukraine has increasingly shown signs of “ frozen conflict ” – the expertise of russia ’ s foreign policy .
in fact , the situation in ukraine demonstrates that russia has achieved a tactical victory , and a ceasefire that has been maintained – and thus to the vast political autonomy of donetsk and luhansk – has allowed russia to create a conflict in the eyes of the eu .
moreover , the lack of implementation of the eu ’ s association agreement with ukraine is a clear indication that russia ’ s current domination of the 欧盟 marriage is the case .
in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , a remarkable example of hungary ’ s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán ’ s government has been incompatible with the european union ’ s democratic standards in recent years , and now openly supports authoritarian regimes that have brought serious shadow to europe – especially putin ’ s regime .
nonetheless , the timing of the current ceasefire – that is , the european commission ’ s transition to a transition – is highly favorable , as is putin ’ s shortsighted emphasis on tactical victories .
eu leaders should use the battle for combat to stop reacting and start anticipating .
the eu can look at long-term strategy , overcoming and ultimately undermining putin ’ s short-term successes .
such a calculation must include a redefinition of the enp .
the plan ’ s task – helping to guide political , social , and economic transitions in neighboring countries – is not inherently problematic ; the problem is that the task is to be interpreted and implemented .
for starters , the enp assumes that all of the eu ’ s neighbors – whether the southern or eastern neighbors – ultimately want to achieve european values and structures at home .
in other words , the enp fails to account for the development , culture , and 志趣 differences among eu partners .
in practice , the enp has overly stressed the technical approach , with a lack of strategic vision and a lack of strategic vision .
in the run-up to the ukraine crisis , for example , the european commission was focused exclusively on the technical details of the association agreement , fully ignoring the potential consequences of the process – for example , in russia .
to be sure , the eu recognizes the need for a coherent strategy , and seeks to address this problem by establishing european external action service , the eeas , and high representative of foreign affairs .
but the eeas finally survived the european commission ’ s impasse , and outgoing senior representative catherine ashton has not moderated this tension , because she was unwilling to get into the eu ’ s internal disputes .
tellingly , ashton has made progress only in areas with ample consensus , such as negotiations on iran ’ s nuclear program and the pact between kosovo and serbia .
further constraining europe ’ s effectiveness is its fragmented approach to securing energy supplies .
countries have largely controlled their own energy policies , and european energy markets become inefficient and excessively dependent on russian supplies .
eu-wide energy policies exist , but they are linked to renewables , not geopolitics and energy security .
but we remain hopeful .
the new european commission president , jean-claude juncker , has made a stunning restructuring of europe with a much-needed strategic leadership .
indeed , juncker has already expressed a message to the incoming high representative federica mogherini to participate in the european commission ’ s policy agenda .
this new structure – which will guide the burden and coordination of multiple members , including the responsibility for trade , the enp , and the climate – should strengthen the unity and collegiality of eu policies , especially after she completed the global strategy to assess her european council ’ s appointment .
to do that , mogherini must make himself a leader supported by juncker and the european council president donald tusk .
most important , all eu member states must commit to cooperation .
ukrainians have demonstrated the power of europe ’ s values .
in fact , europe has plenty of tools ; it is simply a need to understand how to use it .
if it can , europe can not only respond better to russia ’ s challenges , but also to many other challenges in today ’ s rapidly changing global environment .
the women of europe ?
paris – will european women turn to the engine of political change ?
experience and common sense tell us that progress in the economic cycle , accountability , and hard work begins with women and depend on them .
for example , the loans that women receive and repay are generally more efficient .
perhaps because women are often responsible for raising their children , they become the best and most determined “ agent of change . ”
this is reflected in some of the economies of africa and africa , and europe today seems to be moving toward it .
the recent italian government election has been a sign of this new electoral campaign : the party ’ s ouster in the election of silvio berlusconi ’ s mayor , silvio berlusconi , who had been controlled by 贝氏 ( and the root of its power ) .
with the defeat of berlusconi ’ s campaign and former managing director dominique strauss-kahn in new york ’ s bizarre scandal with the international monetary fund , the country ’ s women and young voters immediately mobilized to mobilize against berlusconi ’ s campaign .
they can no longer stand in the combination of such macho and uncouth rhetoric , even though they have been 称为 in italy today as the man of “ 卡恩 . ”
when berlusconi first came to power 17 years ago , he was universally praised for a broad majority of women .
they have not been influenced by his view of women ’ s contradictions ( praising their role in traditional family life , while comparing them to a male bully ’ s sexual 玩物 ) .
but italy ’ s society is already very different : most women are now working , so that they are not interested in the old platitudes and their 胡作非为 大男子主义 .
italy ’ s men may sympathize with an aging leader , because he is increasingly distancing himself from his 蜡像 蜡像 .
but for women in italy ( in fact , women around the world ) , they have become angry and shame for a narcissistic , 沉迷于 charge of crime and 低级趣味 .
of course , it is not just women who oppose berlusconi , but they performed particularly strongly in milan .
they became the incarnation of modernity , driven by a yearning for basic dignity and respect .
in a newly dominated europe , they are not a person in the fight .
as iceland continues to fail – owing to the irresponsible behavior of the political and financial elites of its major men – its national consensus is that only one strong and accountable woman can address the problems facing the country today .
so they elected a female president .
in countries like greece , portugal , and spain , the depth and severity of domestic economic and social crises also create new opportunities for local women .
when confronted with what many have called “ economic warfare , ” women play an increasingly important role in maintaining family finances .
as the crisis spread , women seek to acquire more political positions that reflect their economic influence .
of course , women ’ s change will not translate immediately into political influence .
and the rest of europe will probably never look like the peninsula – where gender equality is much faster than anywhere else in the world .
likewise , whatever the outcome of the imf ’ s new york trial , the case will be a turning point for women in europe .
in people ’ s consciousness , it will be past time for the recognition of public and private atavistic machismo .
in the arab world , from tunis to cairo , young women play an important role in this process .
their desire for change – which is understandable as long as they want to be treated in traditional muslim societies – has become one of the main sources of revolutionary momentum in tunisia and egypt .
but none of this is to suggest that “ women ” are a positive force for europe and the world .
don ’ t forget that the world has a new female leader , marine le pen , the country ’ s national front , 埃列娜 nicolae ceausescu , and the recent 曝光 特拉 特拉 , a former president of the tunisian central bank .
in short , so many of the many countries that are eager to achieve far-reaching change in europe have a profound role to play .
but the main question is whether , as women engage in the rise of female politics , will they create a new vision of voters ( or protesters ) , and the new leadership model ?
a eurozone sabbatical
munich – under constant external pressure , the eurozone countries that have been hit by the crisis have finally abandoned their longstanding resistance to make their budget cuts .
a sharp reduction in wages , while cutting public employees , wants to keep the new debt at a tolerable level .
but these countries ’ competitiveness – especially greece and portugal – have not improved .
the latest eurostat figures in the european union show that , regardless of the country ’ s 价格指数 price index ( inflation-adjusted ) price index , there is no tendency to move toward substantial depreciation when the price index of the country is to be restored .
and only if the real price declines , the lower unit labor costs can translate into competitiveness .
after all , it was the introduction of cheap credit after the introduction of the euro , resulting in price inflation that eventually led to lower competitiveness in these countries , with current-account deficits and accumulation of large foreign debts .
now that capital markets are to fill these deficits , the price should be reversed , but it is clear that it is not happening .
in 2010 , inflation in some of the eurozone ’ s crisis-stricken countries was only slightly lower than that of the 同区 competitors .
but the recent eurostat figures in the european union showed a very different picture in the third quarter of 2011 : the price level of portugal and greece has remained intact after a year of disaster , and italy and spain have risen slightly , even slightly , by 0.3 % and 0.3 % , respectively .
only ireland continues to fall rapidly – from the country ’ s real-estate bubble in 2006 , and so far has fallen by 2.2 % relative to its prices .
overall , ireland ’ s relative price relative to other eurozone competitors has been almost 15 % cheaper relative to other eurozone competitors .
this internal devaluation was rewarded in return : ireland ’ s current-account deficit in 2008 amounted to 5.6 % of gdp , while the european commission expects the congress to run a surplus of GDP0.7% % in 2011 .
true , given that ireland can repay its own foreign debt only 1 % of its foreign debt , this is merely a relief problem .
but ireland ’ s surplus trade is actually improving further .
much of ireland ’ s reversal owes much to its efficient export sector – the authorities ’ backers have the ability to promote political u-turn .
instead , the lobbying forces of greece are powerful .
as greece ’ s economy minister 米 赫里 has put it , it would have to be tempted by the eu ’ s policy of subsidies , to be entrepreneurs to pay for the import sector .
today , these importers have developed a powerful barrier to resisting any possible deflation , even though lowering prices – and thus by shifting greek demand from external to internal production – is the only way to put the greek economy back on track .
because greece ’ s current-account deficit as a share of gdp is three times higher than ireland ’ s , greece ’ s price level will have to fall by half as much as it did .
but who does not believe that greece will be able to achieve this as a member of the eurozone without a massive social unrest – and perhaps even the brink of civil war .
the situation is quite intractable .
many people believe that debt relief and socialization of debt are the only way out .
but such measures have been implemented long ago .
the recent agreement to cut the greek 2370 billion ( $ 3160 billion ) debt is more than 30 % higher than the net national income of greece ’ s 180 billion ( $ 3160 billion ) . but such aid merely strengthens the wrong prices – and the low state of state competitiveness .
these debts will be reinvigorated like a tumor , one day more than a day , while undermining the creditworthiness of moderate eurozone countries .
if that happens , the euro will eventually collapse .
only lower prices can create current-account surpluses and enable them to repay their foreign debts .
it is time for europe to face this grim reality .
those countries that do not want to act lower their prices should receive a temporary exit from the eurozone to reduce prices and debt .
in other words , they should give a euro sabbatical – as the american economist kenneth rogoff recommends .
after the ensuing financial crash died , the sun will soon be 普照大地 .
the creditors may bear the brunt of the enormous losses incurred by debt relief , but the benefits would be even greater relative to those who would otherwise have been left to stay in the eurozone , because the prosperity that these countries can prosper through leaving them is the only chance to recover all assets .
turkey ’ s fair treatment
turkey appears to have received an ultimatum from the european commission : open ports to ships from cyprus in a month , or , otherwise , the danger of postponing the current accession talks .
at the same time , the commission ’ s latest report on turkey ’ s progress toward accession shows that political reforms have slowed , further questioning the possibility of the country ’ s future membership .
the european council will study the european commission ’ s progress report next month .
in this case , europe ’ s leaders should ask themselves that , in the case of cyprus , are the eu fair to turkey ?
is the eu always supportive of turkish political reform ?
what is the eu ’ s long-term interest in turkey ?
if the answers to the first two problems are not , as i believe , the third question is important .
indeed , turkey ’ s closure of ( greece ) has closed its ports , which violated the agreement .
but it is also true that , in part , turkey is denied access to free trade in parts of northern cyprus and other interests .
this is because cyprus remains a divided island .
at the time , when cyprus joined the eu in 2004 , it would be unified .
turkey accepted the united nations unified approach .
but , given that greece ’ s leaders did not adhere to an implicit agreement with the eu to support such a proposal , it voted against the proposal .
but cyprus became the eu ’ s member , but only greece .
this is obviously a mistake , because it makes the eu part of the conflict .
it has given greek cypriot leaders the possibility of blocking progress between the eu and turkey .
turkey ’ s political and legal reforms in recent years have been very broad , as turks ’ desire to move closer to the eu has facilitated these reforms .
but the turks are increasingly feeling that they have not received fair treatment , so the turkish public ’ s support for eu membership has fallen sharply .
that way , it has added new powers to those who want turkey to develop in another direction : they want turkey to move toward a more islamic society , not a modern secular state .
as a result , the eu ’ s move could largely explain the lack of progress in recent turkey ’ s reform process .
this raises the third question : what kind of turkey does the eu want ?
there should be no doubt about this question : turkey ’ s democracy and the economy continue to be strengthened in the eu ’ s interest .
more than four decades ago , the eu pledged that once turkey meets its membership , it would welcome its accession .
now the eu ’ s leaders should take this promise seriously .
a sad fact is that most voters within the eu oppose turkey ’ s accession .
but they are merely reacting to the current situation .
if they are , they want a reformed turkey as partner , with more people inclined to say .
europe ’ s leaders must therefore accept two challenges .
first , they should make clear to their constituents that the eu must adhere to turkey ’ s commitment to turkey , and that it is also in greater interest for all europeans .
second , they must be treated in the negotiations with turkey .
the litmus test of europe ’ s leadership is about the use of ports .
on this issue , finland , the eu ’ s rotating president , proposes a realistic and considered solution to the conflict .
all european leaders should support finland ’ s proposal .
at the same time , efforts should be made to restore the united nations ’ proposal for cyprus .
this should be the case if that means putting pressure on some eu member states .
永别 ( glorious ) war
in a recent few days , the italian government failed to fall after the congress ’ s proposal to deploy troops in afghanistan , and the uk and denmark announced their intention to withdraw their forces from iraq .
the bush administration has been moving toward an additional 名 us troops in iraq and urged allies to increase their troops in afghanistan .
they are increasingly convinced that “ victory ” is unpredictable in any asymmetrical conflict between the armed insurgents and the strength of its religious drive , regardless of how powerful and their religious forces are driven .
donald rumsfeld ’ s assessment of the military “ transition ” – the technological upgrading of military power to achieve decisive victory with fewer troops – has failed in iraq outright .
israel , even with a strong technical advantage , failed to defeat hezbollah in lebanon .
the rockets and missiles that fell into northern israel over 33 days were more than the attack on the united kingdom during world war ii .
so the israelis now must confront this new phenomenon : an asymmetric entity with a national firepower , hezbollah .
so the fierce debate about whether the size of us forces in iraq should be expanded is meaningless .
neither the soviet experience in afghanistan in the 1980 ’ s nor nato today demonstrates that the army ’ s number is the most important factor on the modern battlefield .
the great military thinker carl von clausewitz ’ s idea of equating “ decisive battles ” as the “ center of gravity ” of war has not lost its usefulness in a conflict of “ pivot . ”
indeed , while there was one such center of gravity ( which was a massive concentration of military force that could be devastating for enemies of enemies ) in 1991 , despite the defeat of rome in 1991 , the war between those industrialized countries has become a historical aberration .
most countries now have legitimate legal boundaries , and they are increasingly abiding by international norms and codes of conduct during times of war .
indeed , the obligation of countries to abide by humanitarian rules of code of conduct , and its wanton assault on its enemies , makes asymmetric warfare particularly difficult to reconcile .
moreover , in an era of global media and international war crimes courts , the conditions for state use are becoming increasingly complex .
where strategic frontiers exist , the armed conflict between the border and pakistan ’ s borders , the border between india and india , and the north-south border is likely to occur .
in this context , war , as egyptians showed in 1973 , can still be a means to resolve conflict .
syrians may try to attack israel in order to break the deadlock over the future of the golan heights .
yet , on kashmir , asymmetric conflicts now involving proxies and terrorist groups may not degenerate into a full-blown war , precisely because both india and pakistan have mutual nuclear deterrence .
the changing nature of the battlefield means that the idea of war as a defining event for international conflict has become obsolete .
clausewitz ’ s notion that military action will eventually lead to a political solution is no longer convincing .
the “ victory ” won ’ t bring peace , because there will always be no war on the other .
so , for example , the conventional war in kosovo has lasted two months , opening the stage for an asymmetric conflict .
likewise , the 三周 “ shock ” campaign launched in iraq in 2003 ended in “ victory , ” but opened the door to the occupiers and ordinary iraqis .
after the merciless pounding of southern lebanon , hezbollah has not been weakened .
nor does the return of the taliban in afghanistan six years after the overthrow of the taliban seemed to be in the cards .
the occupier ’ s weakness was revealed during the war of the last war , and continued deployment was the goal of increasing the deployment of the insurgents , while the occupying forces have no time to adapt to changing battlefield conditions .
insurgents in iraq , like the british , have been able to deal with their enemy ’ s technological advantages in just three years , and the irish republican army , which has spent 30 years failing to do so , did not .
the iraq war and israel ’ s war with hamas and hezbollah demonstrated the limits of military force , as well as the role of diplomatic and conflict resolution .
in responding to complex political and cultural conflicts , international and regional alliances revolve around a legitimate purpose .
it is naïve to believe that the idea of using force and deterrence is unnecessary .
but the purpose of using military force is to connect with such a recognition : in today ’ s asymmetric conflicts , victory can no longer be obtained on the battlefield .
a smarter foreign policy can produce more sustainable outcomes only if it is to cope with genuine anxieties about civilization in crisis .
a farewell to nuclear weapons
moscow – 25 years ago , in october , i and ronald reagan discuss how to cut and destroy the horrors of the terror of the two parties in reykjavik , which had been destroyed by the two countries 200 years ago .
despite the many disagreements that exist , it was strongly agreed that civilized societies should not put such horrors on the ground .
though we did not have the highest aspirations in reykjavik , reagan ’ s phrase was “ a turning point in search of a world of security stability . ”
the next few years will determine whether the dream of a nuclear weapon from the planet will be realized .
critics point out that nuclear disarmament is not realistic at best , and it is a dangerous utopian dream .
i strongly opposed this view as someone who used to use nuclear weapons .
nuclear deterrence is always a brittle guarantor of peace .
the us , russia , and other nuclear-armed states are using the world to introduce a future of nuclear weapons without a comprehensive plan for disarmament .
we must first be put to stop this catastrophe .
as george shultz and george shultz noted five years ago , as i pointed out five years ago , as the number of nuclear states grows , nuclear deterrence has become increasingly unreliable and dangerous as the number of nuclear states grows .
only a sincere set of nuclear disarmament roadmaps can stop preemptive war ( which has proven counterproductive ) and effective sanctions ( from now and now ) , generating a common sense of compromise on nuclear arms control and non-proliferation .
the trust and understanding created in reykjavik paved the way for two historic treaties .
the 1987 intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty ( inf ) made europe less fearful of a quick missile attack .
the first strategic arms reduction treaty , signed in 1991 , has reduced the soviet union ’ s massive nuclear arsenal by 80 % over a decade .
but the prospects for nuclear arms control and non-proliferation are darkening , owing to a lack of credible nuclear disarmament programs .
i saw the success of nuclear disarmament negotiations in reykjavik ’ s long two days , but the time and effort must be invested .
ronald reagan and i had been able to create the trust and understanding needed to mitigate a nuclear race that is spiraling out of control .
historically , the end of the cold war left global power and influence more chaotic .
the nuclear powers must adhere to the requirements of the 1968 nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) , and resume “ good faith ” in disarmament .
doing so would increase the diplomatic and moral capital needed for diplomatic negotiations , which can help to limit nuclear proliferation when the number of countries currently capable of building a nuclear bomb is more than unprecedented .
only a truly global plan for nuclear disarmament can provide reassurance and credibility to the global consensus that “ nuclear deterrence is dead . ”
both politically and financially , we can not afford to continue distinguishing between the current “ nuclear ” and “ non-nuclear ” system .
reykjavik proved that boldness can yield returns .
in the case of a nuclear disarmament agreement , 1986 and the environment in which reagan was in place are far from certain .
when i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between the soviet union ’ s two cold war superpowers were on record .
reagan and i , however , could still create space for constructive agreements to create a constructive agreement .
what the world lacks today is visionary and bold leaders , and thus can not establish the trust needed to put nuclear disarmament at the center of a peaceful global order .
economic constraints and the chernobyl disaster have become a further stimulus .
why can ’ t the great recession and the fukushima accident produce similar results today ?
the first step was the us final ratification of the 1996 comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty ( ctbt ) .
president barack obama has expressed support for this effort to block the nuclear test and prevent nuclear war .
it is time for obama to follow through on the promise made in prague in 2009 , inherited reagan ’ s mantle as “ great communicator , ” and persuaded the us senate to ratify the ctbt formally .
the us will force other countries to refuse to join the ctbt – china , egypt , india , indonesia , iran , israel , north korea , and pakistan – to reconsider their decisions .
this brings us to the path toward a comprehensive global nuclear test – whether on the ground , undersea , outer space , or the underground .
this step must be linked to the missile defense restrictions – an effort that is lost in reykjavik .
signing a fissile material treaty ( which has been stagnant since the geneva multilateral negotiations in geneva ) and a successful summit in seoul next year will help to halt the production of dangerous nuclear materials .
this also requires that the 2002 global partnership plan , which is committed to ending and destroy all weapons of mass destruction , would be needed to restart and expand scale .
the world remains in a state of 过度 .
in today ’ s economic climate , nuclear weapons have become loathsome money holes .
for now , if the economy continues , the us , russia , and other nuclear powers should seize the opportunity to launch multilateral weapons reductions through existing or 新启 channels such as the un conference on disarmament .
such an initiative would lead to greater security at lower cost .
but the construction of conventional military forces – most of which are due to the global deployment of the us military – should also be reduced .
since we engage in deeper european forces ( cfe ) arrangement , we should seriously consider reducing the burden of global military budgets and military forces .
us president john f. kennedy once warned that “ everyone , woman , or child , live under the sword of nuclear sword , live under the sword of damocles , and at any time possible . ”
for more than 50 years , humans have watched each of their lives as a rough , 发丝 pendulum , while politicians debated how to fix the pendulum .
the lesson of reykjavik shows that palliative measures are not the problem .
only when the bomb was dragged into the museum of the people ’ s barbaric history , and the great war of war with the slave trade of the slave trade war , was we seen 25 years ago to prove that there was no 白费 .
affirmative action for europe
the violent conflict between france ’ s model of the french model of social integration and the reckless policing of the police reflects the utter failure of the french model of social integration .
yet , in the face of violence in other parts of europe , such as london ’ s bombings in july and the dutch movies in november 2004 were brutally murdered in the streets of amsterdam , it has been painfully clear that europe has failed in a minority of minorities .
as the riots in france fade , french politicians are agonizing about what to do about it .
forty years ago , the us faced a similar problem when it formally ended the legal segregation of blacks and whites .
the us response , however , suggests that it can not be seen as a one-way street .
beyond imposing legal guarantees on minorities , society must be voluntary for all of its citizens .
as a potential model , europe should look carefully at the so-called “ affirmative action ” policy that the us provides to blacks to provide opportunities for blacks .
affirmative action , or “ positive discrimination , ” or “ positive discrimination , ” began university admissions .
but , in the early 1970s , president richard nixon expanded the scope of affirmative action .
as a result , ethnic categorizations began to be accepted as a positive factor , not only in university admissions , but also in public procurement decision-making , credit and government hiring , and government hiring .
the rationale behind affirmative action is that , after a long-term systemic injustice , it is not enough to ensure equal opportunity for all of race and gender discrimination .
these policies are often thought to be contrary to basic american values : admission , lending , and hiring decisions should be based on individual achievements , rather than ethnic categorizations .
but three decades later , these policies remain .
indeed , leading american companies , such as general motors , general electric , and walmart , have created affirmative action programs on people ’ s employment and suppliers choices .
similarly , there are many male backgrounds in america ’ s television news news programs .
affirmative action in the us is effective in creating a large african-american middle class .
over the past 40 years , the percentage of black households earning more than $ 50,000 ( adjusted for inflation ) has tripled , from 9.1 % in 1967 to % % in 2001 .
indeed , the number of people and women held in the us in public and private areas exceeds that of any other place in the world .
the fact that a large black underclass still exists – exposure to the recent floods in new orleans – has been exposed mainly to the deteriorating school system .
of course , affirmative action programs have always been targeted by those who can not benefit from it .
in 2003 , a white student called for the us supreme court to declare that the university of michigan ’ s use of racial standards in the university of michigan violated the pari passu clause in the us constitution .
but the supreme court ruled that the policy is in the constitutional spirit , citing the principle of “ enforceable national interests ” in ethnic diversity .
“ the members of all ethnic and ethnic groups effectively participated in our citizens ’ lives , ” said the decision , are essential to a country ’ s indivisible dreams .
in the process of reaching that decision , the supreme court took a brief reference to a legal brief submitted by the 60 us corporations , led by general motors , which requires maintaining affirmative action programs .
these companies believe that the skills needed for today ’ s global markets can be obtained only through diverse channels of communication .
retired officers and commanders told the court that affirmative action was essential to maintaining the integrity of the military officer .
what america ’ s affirmative action policies can not do is quotas for minorities , because it would impede competition among ethnic groups .
but , when it comes to comparing the comparison of various ethnic groups , the policy allows for a minority of individual members ’ identity as a condition for personal advantage .
as a result , even with a more white student ’ s performance , universities may move to a black student in entrance exams .
in the current french view , however , laws and regulations based on ethnic and regulatory laws are perceived as unwelcome , and an assault on republican ideals .
french president jacques chirac vehemently opposes quotas for immigration , fearing that such a policy would be a ethnic relic .
and french companies do not see the problem of solving the problem of the suburbs .
moreover , france ’ s interior minister nicolas sarkozy has not done anything except to give some of the smartest immigrants from the suburbs .
france , too , has affirmative action programs , but is directed against poverty rather than ethnicity .
if europe ’ s politicians are serious about preventing the division of population , affirmative action would be essential – not only to reflect the workplace , but also to account for small business loans , housing loans , public procurement , and school admissions .
tony blair , who faced the flaws in britain ’ s 民族融合 in july , should use the uk as an opportunity for the european union ’ s current rotating presidency to hold affirmative action at the top of the european heads of government in brussels .
affordable green energy
copenhagen – despite growing skepticism about global warming , the scientific community has reached an unprecedented consensus on the phenomenon : man-made climate change does exist , and we ignore the risks it poses .
but if the problem is ( and should be ) addressed , one equally important and important question is urgently needed : what approach is it ?
one solution is increasingly popular , and it seems plausible that the world must cut its greenhouse-gas emissions dramatically by a day .
specifically , the goal is to reduce global co2 emissions by 50 % by mid-century .
even proponents of that solution know that achieving this goal is not easy – and they are right .
indeed , they are right to make their own mistakes .
and i ’ ve heard it :
most renewable energy sources come from burning wood or other biomass in the third world , and are often unsustainable .
fossil fuels account for more than four-fifths of the world ’ s energy diet .
so , if we are to halve global carbon emissions by mid-century , it is clear that we must obtain more energy from those who do not emit carbon .
can we do this ?
according to the international energy agency , we must do the same by 2050 : we must do the same by 2050 :
now consider the list of devices that we need to build on the next 40 years , rather than the number of devices that we need for the next 40 years !
there is still a little more : even if we are to put these things up ( obviously , it is impossible ) , by 2050 , it will have little impact on global temperatures .
according to the most famous 经济模型 model , this large-scale construction will eventually reduce global temperatures by 0.1 degrees ( roughly 0.2 fahrenheit ) , while rising sea levels will only reduce ( less than 半 ) .
this is not a good bargain .
indeed , the projected cost of such a package – perhaps $ 5 trillion annually – is so large that it would be absurd to call it “ solutions . ”
fortunately , there is a better , smarter approach to tackling global warming .
instead of having hundreds of billions of dollars in energy plants – or , intentionally , the cost of raising carbon fuel – the world ’ s billions of people live in poverty , making green energy cheaper .
so far , solar panels are expensive – more than ten times the cost of energy exports – only in the west , where rich and desperate ( and often subsidized ) westerners can .
but imagine that if we can increase the efficiency of solar cells by ten times – in other words , if i can make it cheaper than fossil fuels .
we simply didn ’ t need to force ( or subsidize ) people to stop burning fossil fuels .
everyone in the world , including china and the people of india , will turn to a cheaper and cleaner alternative – and global emission-reduction targets are automatically realized .
so , can we achieve this technological miracle over the next 20 to 40 years ?
in short , yes .
the price of solar power will fall steadily in the next 30 years – roughly 50 % per decade – and we can accelerate the rate of decline further if there is plenty of money to study .
so , “ a lot of money ” ?
as long as a mere 0.2 % of global gdp ( roughly $ 100 billion ) is invested in research , the belief that breakthroughs will be groundbreaking is not limited to solar power , and that other alternative energy technologies will benefit .
my confidence in the potential of technological progress is that some climate activists believe it is naïve .
is it really ?
consider one of the miracles of the world today – the personal computer .
because government subsidies are subsidized and forced to increase the price of 打字机 and 计算尺 , these devices simply don ’ t have to enter the family .
and , in fact , because the space race is in place , the us government invested heavily in physical and electronics projects , not just neil armstrong ’ s 1969 moonshot , but also the arrival of apple ’ s personal computer in 1976 , following the arrival of ibm ’ s personal computer .
it is a successful precedent for clean energy .
don ’ t try to subsidize inefficient technologies or to try to increase the price of fossil fuels , in turn making it more difficult to fund basic research , which makes green energy cheaper .
afghanistan ’ s future without better rule
this year , the us and nato allies have made good progress in afghanistan .
the ongoing maria action , which arrested the 巴拉 of the country ’ s darfur and two taliban “ pivot to ministers , ” has been a victory in the right direction .
but , regardless of how much progress is made elsewhere , the us and its allies can succeed only if the afghan government works effectively – but now the afghan government is moving in the wrong direction .
only by changing the sci , or do all efforts to do so are in opposition , and the international community ’ s engagement has not been legitimate .
us president barack obama has set america ’ s goal in afghanistan : to bring down al qaeda ’ s safe haven , blunt the taliban , and help the country establish security forces and effective government , to “ lead the afghan future . ”
to this end , with nato allies , obama launched the 18 months of military action that preceded the formal withdrawal .
to achieve this , nato and its afghan allies must overcome three obstacles .
first , they must thrive in the war against the taliban to create the possibility of rebuilding the state and negotiation .
second , they must persuade pakistan to join the afghan taliban in an effort to address the taliban ’ s safe haven .
third , they must support the creation of a legitimate afghan government , not the current corrupt regime .
nato ’ s strategy of success has been successful on all fronts , if afghanistan can not establish a legitimate government , so that the military victories and pakistan ’ s strike against the taliban will be undone .
recent mistrust of karzai ’ s government suggests that the current regime lacks capacity and will to manage the country .
when the general election in august 2009 , nato officials found that ordinary afghans loathe the government ’ s massive corruption , which is one of the taliban ’ s most effective premises .
at the time , they were expected to help afghan leaders implement reforms through the general election .
the subsequent rigged election brought an end to heart .
the failure of the 2009 election was a comprehensive , and no voter rolls will be hard to prevent .
a large part of the election commission , an independent election body , was appointed by karzai .
most members of the electoral oversight committee , formed by the afghan and international community , were appointed by the un – maintaining some authority in the electoral process .
the presence of the electoral oversight committee ensures some degree of fairness on the electoral process , preventing the electorate ’ s potential open conflict .
although the election is deeply flawed , the situation would be even worse without oversight .
after the election , many hoped that karzai was building a trusted government to ensure that afghanistan ’ s future and future peacekeeping forces engage in international aid .
in a high-profile speech in london in january , karzai pledged to be committed to corruption and promotion of government accountability .
the opposite is true .
since the london speech , karzai has actively opposed efforts to fight corruption , introducing warlords in his cabinet to promote the construction of civil society , and oppose increasing women ’ s share in parliament .
making matters worse , karzai ’ s imposition of decree on february 13 , which led to the appointment of all of his members ’ members , was clearly meant to strengthen nepotism , which is clearly meant to strengthen the regime ’ s integrity .
nato and the international community must act to create a credible and credible government .
while the afghan government can not be fully centralized , it will not be happy if the central government fails .
so , unless karzai has changed , he will be active , and nato allies have no need to risk their soldiers ’ risk and to increase precious resources .
karzai could be able to lead the country on his own , but the us and its allies can not , unless the current government becomes effective partners , and should not maintain its commitments .
no exit from afghanistan
new delhi – despite frequent turmoil and repeated invasions , afghanistan has barely changed for centuries .
nearly 120 years ago , winston churchill described the futility of war in the region : “ fiscal is a disaster . ”
moral that is evil .
militarily , this is a mistake .
there is no doubt that churchill ’ s assessment is the right alarm for many of the us and nato officials today – and they are organizing a withdrawal from the united states ’ longest overseas fight .
the war in afghanistan has contributed less to american casualties than previous us wars , but the human costs remain large – especially after the afghan casualties .
moreover , trillions of dollars are wasted , and the less positive positive effect of the us-led military intervention has begun to dissipate , with adverse effects continuing to destabilize the region .
now us president barack obama is trying to negotiate a new “ position ” agreement with the afghan government to determine how many us troops will remain in afghanistan and their deployment .
but the reality is that the us has lost its defeat from the conflict , just as it did nearly 40 years ago in vietnam , leaving the oppressed people to fend for themselves .
instead of recognizing failure , us officials resort to diversionary tactics .
secretary of state john kerry , for example , said in his recent address to the new delhi address that the key to stabilizing afghanistan is to build a “ new silk road , ” linking it to central asia – a poor excuse that is clearly used to mask america ’ s failures .
kerry insists that the us is not withdrawing , but “ 缩编 , ” which is clearly a matter of manipulation .
there is no doubt that america ’ s presence in afghanistan has given rise to important regional linkages ; unfortunately , these linkages do not support economic recovery .
the wars and laws of the last decade have fueled the taliban ’ s emergence in pakistan and afghanistan , leading the taliban to view the taliban as a formidable military force – a belief that could lead to any progress toward stability .
indeed , the taliban ’ s confidence has prompted them to disrupt the peace talks with the afghan government .
the taliban first agreed to establish a office specifically for negotiations , but in june they established a 准 relationship with the islamic emirate of afghanistan .
the afghan government responded by suspending negotiations with the taliban and negotiating a military position with the us .
pakistan recommends looking for other places to negotiate with the taliban , rather than abandoning coordination efforts altogether .
this would be a boon for the resumption of negotiations , as pakistan played an important role in helping the taliban to rise , as the afghan taliban ’ s ruling council , including its leader , and the pakistani taliban .
信心 Katju , the former indian ambassador to afghanistan , confidently believed that afghan president hamid karzai ’ s anger in the taliban ’ s strategy of qatar will delay negotiations long .
( indeed , karzai has repeatedly met with taliban representatives in secret talks aimed at restarting a stalled peace plan . )
the reason that the negotiations had to be revived is that america ’ s “ strategic desperation ” is so strong that this desperation is so strong that the us could not even fulfill kerry ’ s pledge to repeal the negotiations if the ties with al-qaeda were found .
after all , the us has accepted the taliban ’ s unrealistic assurances that it will not use afghanistan as a base of “ trouble ” in other regions , which is the result of terrorist attacks .
fortunately for the us , the taliban are no longer homogeneous organizations .
a decade of 一刻不停 and targeted drone attacks have created rifts within the taliban .
but , as 专家 高尔 , a security expert , has observed , “ the 塔利班 and disillusioned taliban today have found solace and goals in an extreme interpretation of islam . ”
the taliban may no longer be a military force , but it is clearly still extremely dangerous .
all of these developments make india ’ s situation extremely difficult .
after the withdrawal of us troops , afghanistan would most likely return to its pre-war state ; pakistan ’ s state-sponsored terrorism would revive the country ; extremist spillover spillovers spill over into indian 查默邦 and kashmir .
to minimize the odds , india must be prepared to defend its interests at all costs .
after all , with the us moving from the afghan quagmire , its own national interests will continue to overwhelm all other considerations .
but china , pakistan , and iran also have important national-security interests in afghanistan , all of which will do everything they can to preserve it .
so , while the us military might leave afghanistan , the violence created by the united states ’ war in the united states is a dream – especially for south asia ’ s south asian neighbors .
afghanistan ’ s customary anguish
拉赫 , afghanistan – when it comes to sorting out the challenges of violence , danger , corruption , fundamentalism , and fundamentalism , it is often ignored : the influence of customary law .
the current impact on afghanistan ’ s main legal system : the constitution , the koran , and the customary law known as farhang , and , in the law , the most important and strictest version is the pashtun law .
the old honor code of honor was designed to ensure that control of family control is among the oldest men in the hands of the oldest men , with married sons , unmarried sons , grandchildren , and wives ( among the youngest ) .
collective decision-making is made by the elders ’ elders , who must be subject to their decisions .
the decision includes whether to work with the taliban and the alliance , and include accepting or rejecting poppy eradication in the village .
all of the things that have gone wrong are the patriarch ’ s hands , except to consolidate no one ’ s right to intervene – for example , by resorting to a 石块 girl , or for what women call “ honor killings . ”
every move in afghanistan ’ s male lives contains some form of swap , and nothing is paid .
Melmastia ( mutual accommodation ) is a basic principle of heightened language , meaning that “ even if you are a murderer who is killed , so long as you can help me shelter , you will have to fight me . ”
this established 责任意识 can explain why president hamid karzai ’ s cronies remain in office and why taliban leaders remain safe .
women are excluded from collective decision-making , because they are simply devoid of ideas .
girls are essentially a form of pleasure when marriage is married ( the father paid for his daughter ’ s labor and birth ) , and to her husband ’ s family .
the younger the young , the higher the cost .
in the provinces of afghanistan , in particular , marriage is often adolescent girls .
but women also have valuable consequences .
a family ’ s main “ cultural capital ” is the honor of the family , and the preservation of the family ’ s honor must ensure that women have no chance to hide their families ’ mistakes and thus tarnish their family ’ s respectability .
so women must be thoroughly isolated , not public spaces , because women are in the interest of their schools , hospitals , parks , or markets .
they are properly programmed to hide their identity and make certain of them certain in public places .
each woman simultaneously carries her father ’ s and her husband ’ s honor , and that all of the violence imposed on these nominal countries must be unconditional .
that may mean that they must choose to die when they are willing to die , and they can not afford to take a place in public places like the risk of humiliation .
the courts are almost unheard of , because it means giving up family decisions .
from a male perspective , turning to outside police or judicial forces means that there is no capacity for an independent war – equivalent to admitting defeat and accepting symbolic 阉割 .
this helps to explain the severity of the country ’ s courts , who believe that the “ honor ” of the rape or murderer can be redeemed by bribery .
because violence is meant to be private , delegating justice to state institutions could become an intolerable humiliation .
later , the increasingly rigid rigidity of the state was the influence of islamist militancy , which seeks to legitimize violence with religious teachings , especially violence against women .
however , farhang and personal violence are precisely what mohammad wanted to ban through the koran , which has surpassed private issues , setting a code of law , and giving women some rights .
for example , while the koran allows for consideration of women ’ s inheritance , tribal practice is not recognized , and that it can be explained by the tribal committees ’ frustration over tribal councils .
likewise , the koran must have four witnesses to verify that , but only suspicion that a woman may have been illegal in the face of the law ’ s rules would be brutal to its customary rule .
but even in remote provinces , awareness of alternative options is being infiltrated through the media .
the iranian film and the 喜爱 indian tv show , not to mention the occasional american film , influence perceptions .
the same is true of refugees living in pakistan and iran .
girls know that there are alternatives to the absence of an intolerable lifestyle : in the range of customs rules , women are demanding a growing number of requirements .
this is especially true of people living in iran , where they are pure and purely muslim , but allowing women to study and work with adequate health care and family planning .
once it returned to the afghan countryside , forced to accept brutal marriages , many desperate women – especially women from iran – would prefer to self-destruct .
violence and murder against women are on the rise , because men of crimes feel challenging their authority .
westerners perceive religion as the central issue in afghanistan .
but the crux of the problem is that the ancient caste rights that can be traced back to the bible of the biblical era have only some adjustments to the demands of globalized capitalism .
the government and international aid agencies have yet to take into account the role of farhang , perhaps because the power of the most westerners can not be understood .
in afghanistan , however , many of afghanistan ’ s problems can not be resolved until the 私人 private violence triggered the old rules .
afghanistan ’ s 环境 environment
afghanistan ’ s president hamid karzai has strengthened international fundraising activity in recent weeks , seeking a new set of weapons and reconstruction assistance in the united states and stronger strategic safeguards .
but karzai ’ s relationship with his sponsors has begun to deteriorate , partly because his government failed to stop the rise of afghanistan ’ s massive opium trade .
hidden in the opium issue , another security threat , though a serious threat to afghanistan and long-term stability in the region , has never been taken seriously since the us-led invasion of the taliban in 2001 .
at home , 80 % of the country ’ s population is living in 种植业 , where many villages live away from water sources , and that environmental hazards are not only economically deteriorating , but also politically damaging .
before the taliban fall , people should remember and remember that lesson , especially in the us .
after all , desertification and deforestation contributed to the rise of maoist guerilla groups in peru more than two decades ago .
Sendero , 靠 by planting drugs and smuggling of timber and smuggling , deliberately opted for 干旱 droughts , 采伐 mountain villages as the stronghold of their insurgency .
likewise , nepal ’ s maoist insurgency , which has killed more than 10,000 people , has made a desperate despair of the mountain of mountain , which had been hit by floods , as the result of deforestation in the highlands .
no maoist group could secure a foothold in the south ’ s south in south afghanistan ( after all , they once 赤手空拳 the soviets ) .
but the taliban ’ s rapid growth in the 1990 ’ s was inextricably linked to the failure of irrigation systems .
villagers ’ crops die in a prolonged drought , and they saw joining the taliban as an opportunity to improve the economy .
if more irrigation is available , the taliban ’ s presence may be far less impressive .
today , the taliban are spending , but the lack of water makes it difficult to sustain the opium production process in the former south .
without a strong investment in irrigation systems , including building reservoirs to take full advantage of the snow in the hindu kush , and invest in new cash crops such as saffron and 玫瑰油 , afghanistan will become a 国 country .
the 做法 of the mountains of pakistan ’ s mountains is being questioned .
the local agriculture , the willow , and 西河柳 , which had been cut off from the 松弛 , the willow , and 西河柳 in the winter , have been hit hard by 为 , 柳树 , and 桑树 .
if people work together , investing in developing local varieties of local varieties can be restored .
the disappearance of ancient cedar , pine , 枞树 , and 橡树 forests on the slopes is another matter .
this year ’ s 融水 and flooding – a warning that many more soil erosion and the loss of arable land will be disrupted ; hundreds of thousands lost their livelihoods .
afghanistan ’ s forests have been a problem .
in 1960 , the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) spoke of an uneven logging act , such as “ wood 滚滑法 ” ( $ 37 billion ) , and the trees of trees .
airline photographers were sent to photos , and the result was canceled .
but the fao admitted in 1976 that forest and water basins were “ very limited ” in a new plan .
the 1976 plan called for sustainable logging and basic control of forest fires , but the war prevented afghanistan from half of its forest land .
more than 60 % of the 土地 province , the second 鸦片 province , is old , but they were cleared during the war .
the jihadist group ’ s factions , and later the taliban and the subsequent 塔利班 省及 , exported pakistani export varieties to pakistan ’ s export variety .
until today , illegal logging continues .
at the current rate , afghanistan ’ s old 熟林 will disappear within a decade .
the united nations recognizes the problem , but it is not willing to risk a remote tribal region that will venture in the hands of the united states and its allied forces only if the us and its allied forces are armed .
security issues and costs limit involvement in international conservation organizations .
a new initiative called the green corps includes 300 forest rangers responsible for stopping illegal logging , and the government wants to increase its numbers within a year .
but the plan seems unlikely .
with more than 200 people in the illegal logging corps , they have 锯子 and trucks , armed , and supported by drug and 翡翠 smugglers ( often local officials ) .
the price of cedar cedar in lahore is high enough to convince them to bribe or kill any green group in their way .
environmental issues are important for the periphery , because it is directly affected by direct human survival .
when the issue of urgent management of natural resources – whether in the water or water management of water or water – is in the sand , afghanistan is already awash with discontent and the most sensitive terrain , and the power of the intelligence officer and the disaffected is the most likely site of the 奥萨马 .
afghanistan ’ s feminist revolution
on april 16 , more than 300 afghan women – many of them students – marched together in kabul , protesting parliament through a new law that would impose a series of 式 restrictions on women .
this law allows women to rape rape , limiting women ’ s actions without permission for male permission – for example , work or learning , or even to criminalize women as illegal as their husbands hoped .
these women , faced with the anger of men with “ prostitutes ” and other epithets , marched two miles in 谩骂 , expressing their disapproval of the law .
both houses of congress have passed the law , and president hamid karzai has signed the bill .
the law now affects only the shia minority , but it may affect the pending legislation that could limit the rights of 妇女 women .
in the west , the argument for a woman ’ s property is a highly personalized individual ’ s demands for personal autonomy – that is , decisions by women , not on her as wife , mother , community members , or religious believers .
but , while some western feminist views may help in afghanistan and other developing countries to reject certain forms of male oppression , we should not assume that , as western feminists have done , our task is to make “ our ” feminist change .
on the contrary , feminist ideas expressed by women in afghanistan should educate the west to recognize their weaknesses .
emerging feminism in the traditional and religious communities of traditional and religious societies is very different from western feminism – the former ’ s human and deepest human suffering .
in india , for example , feminists ’ ideas for women ’ s equality of women are more good for family than on their own , and they owe their contributions to society rather than the satisfaction of individuals .
they have not seen their struggle as a cultural or ideological clash of men and women , but as a practical work to enable themselves to avoid violence and sexual abuse , forced early marriage , and legal inequality .
the support of women ’ s freedom and rights to expand women ’ s freedom and rights has just been set in motion , though it is bound to bring about some instability and adjustment , especially in the growing middle class , but not – and perhaps never – the most basic trust and warm .
it does not seem to follow through on partition , individualized , solitary society – and the commercialization of the commercialization of western feminism .
this kind of feminist version of feminism – which has the right to demand equal but still value value in households – is a much-needed remedy for some western feminist shortcomings .
ideally , developing-country men ’ s drive for progress will continue to change , combining the idea of autonomy and support for families , societies , and other relationships , and western men will learn and improve .
moreover , from a sensible point of view , these women remind us that western feminism does not necessarily have to be developed on the basis of established directions , and we can still modify and refine it with a more satisfactory and comfortable definition of equality .
simone de villepin ’ s book the book of 第二性 , the post-war western feminism , was a man who was neither a wife nor a mother nor a mother .
as a result , her book naturally placed women in a context of secular , isolated , and individualistic identity , with “ freedom ” meant purely autonomous , not equal , integration with family groups or even god .
the good news for women in east and west is that president hamid karzai ’ s harsh international criticism – critics of criticism from the west – changed the law less than a week after the march to end .
this international turmoil demonstrates how the challenges of leadership in the west over three decades have brought the world to a good path .
but we are over – and there are good reasons to do so – in the age of feminist leadership .
we now know where the problem for women in the west is , and the solution is clear .
what we lack now is not analysis , but the organizational and political will to implement it .
so leadership has shifted to women in developing countries .
their task is more urgent , and , frankly , their problems are far more serious than we are , so they urgently need theories that are compatible with the challenges that they face .
if a brave afghan woman who engages in kabul ’ s march – as i hope she or she had done in developing countries – is a fundamental text in the next 50 years , it is no doubt that it will be driven by equality , and is truly practical .
and perhaps , in their view of the possibility that the world is consuming , competitive , or gender war , it will become a valuable challenge for our western feminist – and loved men – as a worthy challenge .
afghanistan ’ s opium war
when nato leaders gather at the riga summit in riga , there was a monster at the meeting : afghanistan ’ s opium problem .
afghanistan is in the hands of terrorists , insurgents , and criminals , while billions of dollars of opium trade are at the heart of the country ’ s ills .
indeed , nato commander-in-chief jones jones called drugs a lethal weakness in afghanistan .
this year ’ s lost tons of opium harvest will produce more than $ 3 billion , almost half of gdp in afghanistan .
profits for drug traffickers downstream will be almost 20 times that amount .
opium revenues are corrupting afghan society from bottom to bottom .
armed convoys transport opium in their borders .
sometimes the army and police are involved .
weapons and bribes ensure that trucks are waved through checkpoints .
鸦片剂 flows flow freely into iran , pakistan , and other central asian countries .
with local officials gaining access to local officials , the opium fields of wealthy landowners are thriving .
because judges are bribed or intimidated , drug traffickers have never been free .
senior government officials collect opium revenues or bribes to keep quiet .
some provincial governors and government officials are also the main players in the drug trade .
as a result , afghanistan ’ s state is at risk of taking over the dangerous alliance of extremists , criminals , and opportunists .
opium is choking afghan society .
in afghanistan , there is growing drug use .
with opium and heroin , the past is now a staple of consumption .
using intravenous drugs is spreading hiv/aids in iran , central asia , and the former soviet union .
in traditional western european markets , health officials will suffer from the rise in the number of deaths associated with drug addiction , owing to the higher doses of heroin crop this year .
what is to be done ?
for starters , the veil of corruption in afghanistan must be revealed , and afghans have been silenced for hubris .
they are on the verge of a 豪宅 , driving the top 奔驰 trillion in 奔驰 cars .
the afghan government should now name , humiliate , and fire corrupt officials , arrest major drug traffickers and opium landlords , and seize their assets .
donors have trained police , prosecutors , and built courts and detention centers .
now , the government should use the judiciary to implement the rule of law .
restoring confidence in the central government will be difficult , but not impossible .
it would be a good start to focus major drug traffickers in prison on a new and safe haven at the 喀布尔 新 of kabul .
of course , afghanistan does not bear all responsibility for its disaster .
if western governments are serious about combating drug consumption , the heroin trade will not be rampant .
ironically , the countries that have sent their lives to afghanistan are also the biggest market for afghan heroin .
moreover , afghanistan ’ s neighbors must do much to stop insurgents , weapons , money , and chemical 前体 from flowing into the country .
joint forces should take a tougher approach to drug issues .
counter-insurgency and counter-narcotics are two dimensions of the problem .
improving security and the rule of law must include destroying opium transactions .
the un security council has authorized the international security assistance force to take all necessary measures to achieve its mandate .
nato forces should be empowered to help the afghan army fight opium , in order to destroy the heroin labs , remove the opium bazaar , attack opium , and bring the big drug traffickers to justice .
and it is time to give them the equipment and manpower to do the job .
it is not useful to try to win the hearts and minds of major drug traffickers .
farmers are a different story .
forcing the farmers into the hands of extremists will not lead to a sustainable reduction in opium .
indeed , as we have seen in some andean countries , doing so could backfire .
so security and development must go hand in hand .
in order to achieve this , afghanistan needs more international aid .
international support has so far been generous , but , far below the per capita level of the rest of the post-war period , demand is even larger .
farmers can survive long enough to survive long enough to survive .
so far , afghanistan ’ s drug lords are struggling , and rural communities are suffering .
this must be reversed .
we must punish drug traffickers and reward farmers .
we can not fail in afghanistan .
the recent history vividly tells us what a failed endgame is .
but any solution in afghanistan depends on eliminating its opium .
afghanistan ’ s terrorized women
kabul – the recent independence of the human rights commission ( AIHRC ) in afghanistan has been reported in 库 offices .
先是 gul , just 15 years old , was forced to marry a young man who was older than her , and then forced to coerce the prostitution into a full seven years , before being rescued from the rescue .
over the last decade , the committee received more than 19,000 complaints related to mistreatment of women .
though some progress has been made on the investigation and handed over the judiciary ’ s rise , the challenge remains daunting .
since 2002 , many efforts have been made to improve women ’ s treatment in afghanistan .
the state enacted a series of new laws and established a fairly advanced legal framework to end discrimination against women , including a law that would treat any violence against women .
but laws and policies alone are not enough to protect women from cruelty to their brutal family practices .
indeed , the case above is only the appearance of the most revealing .
there was also a young woman named a young woman who was raped after her relatives raped ( though she recently received an amnesty from the president , but may be forced to marry with rape ) .
the other young woman , known as an entrepreneur , cut off his nose and cut off his nose .
violence against women is continuing in afghanistan , for the first time in many reasons : the country inherited a secular tribal tradition that regards women as inferior , and thus denied women ’ s fundamental rights and freedoms .
there are significant numbers of people who are opposed to the rights of women , who provide strong support for radical groups .
the taliban , for example , have used a policy of suppressing women ’ s policies to attract people in tribal and rural areas .
third , the family ’ s honor is more important than the happiness and safety of women .
if the other family members were home to a woman , she has several options .
normally , she will remain silent and 选择 the family .
if women are to report the report to the authorities , the case will hardly be seriously investigated , and the perpetrators will not be prosecuted .
in the case of gul , for example , gul ’ s report on the atrocities he endured gave the police , who had returned to the family after some of the great powers involved .
fourth , laws often fail to be fully enforced , and sharia law often takes precedence over civil codes , making it free for violence against women or crime .
in october 2010 , for example , afghanistan ’ s supreme court ruled that the women who fled to the family or their immediate family will have to flee their families in 卖淫罪 .
finally , when the taliban collapsed a decade ago , discrimination and violence against women have been in place for centuries in afghanistan .
despite some progress , the public and official sensitivity to these events are only slowly established .
the afghan government must therefore take a number of steps to protect women ’ s rights .
nowhere is it more important to prosecute these violent acts of violence against women and trial under appropriate legal proceedings .
this requires strengthening the rule of law and ending the culture of impunity .
this , in turn , calls for the public to communicate to the public ’ s rights and women ’ s rights by textbooks , continuing education curricula , and mass media propaganda .
and it needs to persuade representatives and policymakers to formulate policies and allocate budgets to combat violence against women , training the police and judges , and training the 警察 .
perhaps more important , it would be more important to bring sweeping judicial systems such as sharia , or to review and amend them .
for 莎 gul , her case must be thoroughly investigated , and the police and judges must do everything that she can to justice her .
moreover , these cases must be studied at the root of such crimes .
unless afghanistan ’ s leaders begin to address this problem seriously , the country will continue to lose its crimes against women .
a flat world and a round ball
the world cup ’ s final stage is approaching , and now is a good time to make a 赛中 comment .
this year ’ s world cup , unlike the previous world cup in south korea and south korea in 2002 , has not emerged in the first round .
the swiss and australian teams are surprisingly surprised , and the asian and african teams have been somewhat disappointing , and only marginally stronger .
so far , only two games , italy ’ s ugly commitment to the netherlands and portugal in the united states and portugal , 犯规 , 下流 attacks , unnecessary aggression , and 红黄牌 红黄牌 .
otherwise , we are experiencing a wonderful world cup in germany , whether from a sports perspective or a general atmosphere .
germany and germany , for their part , have little awareness of their country and their compatriots .
even mother nature is 随人意 .
after a long winter and an approaching spring , with the start of the first match , it is almost overnight and almost overnight , germany has made the most sunny and happy side .
the current world cup organization ’ s organization is exceptional ( as is expected ) , and the police ’ s excellent job has allowed athletes to do nothing .
the german national community is celebrating the never-ending party with guests from all over the world ( without anticipating ) .
and germany shows a wonderful modern offensive football , which is not expected !
more importantly , it is not just germany ’ s football team , but the entire country that is in a young , charming , 悠闲 , and 无忧无虑 image , as well as 汇 , 友善 , and 风趣 .
the bad news for years has passed , and there is no trace to germany .
doctors are on strike , taxes are rising , and coalition governments are attacking each other each other , and german chancellor angela merkel herself declared that the state is national .
germany ’ s citizens , however , have no interest in celebrating this soccer event , only to continue with friends from all over the world .
black , red , and gold in german flag never hit the entire country with the same brush as it is now , but there is no cause for nationalism .
indeed , the flags of many countries fly alongside german flags .
in berlin and other major german cities , taxi drivers can see their countries ’ flags , from angola to saudi arabia .
fans around the world have not only painted their flags , but also dress in their respective countries ’ colors .
flags are the hope of victory in the hope of victory , as well as to conquer the tears that were defeated by the national team .
all told , germany during the world cup recalls shakespeare ’ s midsummer night ’ s dreams , and the atmosphere that was filled with tocqueville .
outside the football field , the 转播 match has become a 球迷 “ event . ”
what about football itself ?
this world cup demonstrates three major developments that sport has undergone .
first , europe and south america are more privileged than they have been four years ago , and they remain in great power for international soccer .
so we must hope that south africa ’ s world cup will finally lead to greater global parity in 2010 .
second , international soccer is witnessing a new generation of international soccer .
spain , argentina , and germany have launched a very young team that is impressive .
although zidane , 贝克汉姆 , and 菲哥 are still in the field , the young players in france , the united kingdom , and the united kingdom have deepened the news .
brazil , too , seems richer , and it is more likely to score the score than the aging champion of the world since 2002 .
this generational change is accelerated by a third development .
at the top of the international level , football has become more rapid , and more demand , more effective teams , and more effective teams .
a team would not be able to keep moving smoothly for a team or longer for more than 90 minutes , quickly shifting from defensive defenses to offensive , and to limit its opponents ’ movements .
here , something similar can be found in a similar place between football and today ’ s globalized market , which is necessary for a similar restructuring .
but , unlike economic globalization , it remains to be seen whether this new , fast-paced soccer victory will prevail ( after all , 血气方刚 spain lost to an aging france ) .
sport and fans will certainly benefit .
now that is the world cup , shaped by a new generation of young people , a world cup of convenience , glamorous , and 美丽动人 .
germany desperately needs this spirit of optimism , because , unfortunately , two principles remain valid in the future : first , winter will return ; second , football is round , and the next game is always the most difficult .
a free lunch for america
berkeley – former us treasury secretary lawrence summers has an imaginative idea at this year ’ s imf meeting : the approach of national governments , as well as the patient ’ s failure to do so .
summers is in a position to focus on minor issues like greece ’ s focus on the greek problem , and the imbalances between the north and south of the south – the imbalance between the northern and southern governments , the reckless banks ’ creditors , and poor government governments – is more serious a day than one day .
but , on the other side of the atlantic , americans have no reason to feel smug .
summers ’ s analogy can also be described as a way to describe the us – the long-term funding dilemma for the americans , while ignoring the us macroeconomic and unemployment crisis .
the us government ’ s 30-year debt ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rate is about 1 % per year .
assuming that the us government will spend $ 500 billion in the next two years , and to spend the money on infrastructure – even if these investments are unproductive , their social returns are only 25 % annually .
assuming that , as it stands , it is simple keynesian government spending multiplier that is right .
thus , the $ 500 billion additional federal infrastructure spending in the next two years will produce an additional $ 1 trillion in output of goods and services , creating an additional seven million additional jobs , and lowers annual unemployment by two percentage points .
moreover , as the labor force affects the effect of the labor force , the unemployment rate will decline by just 0.1 percentage points in the indefinite future .
the stakes are not limited .
better infrastructure would mean $ 20 billion a year of income and social wealth .
lower unemployment in the future would mean a $ 20 billion increase in annual production .
and half of the extra $ 1 trillion of goods and services will show up for us households and services .
consider the benefits : higher employment today , $ 500 billion in additional goods and services in the next two years , and more than $ 40 billion in additional income flows and production .
so what is the potential cost of $ 500 billion in infrastructure spending over the next two years ?
first , $ 500 billion of extra government spending could be offset by a tax increase of 300 billion , from higher economic activity .
the net result is that the national debt will increase by $ 200 billion .
america ’ s taxpayers must therefore pay $ 2 billion a year to pay for this extra debt for the next 30 years , and then pay the $ 200 billion to roll over the debt .
but , by increasing economic activity by about $ 40 billion per year , an extra $ 40 billion would generate additional tax revenue .
with some of the interest payments to pay for the debt , and saving the remaining part of the savings , it would be more healthy in the form of a healthier economy , which would be able to eliminate the increase in the national debt .
in other words , taxpayers will be winners , because the benefits of a healthier economy will compensate for higher interest costs on the national debt , thereby enabling the government to provide more services without raising taxes .
businesses are also winners , because goods and workers will be able to use improved infrastructure .
the unemployed are winners , because many people will be employed .
even bond investors are winners , because they get their money back to work , and they have the interest in the contract .
what is bad ?
no .
one might ask me why ?
but two things are different today .
for starters , the us labor market has failed , so that the expansion of government spending does not create resource costs for a society as a whole .
second , bond investors are stupid in reality .
today , the s & p 500 could yield 7 % annual benefits , so it is supposed that a us government 30-year inflation-adjusted bonds – yields only 1 % annually .
the difference in the difference in real yield on the 60 percentage points is a testament to bond investors ’ unusually irrational panic .
they are willing to pay 6 % annual interest payments for “ security . ”
at the moment , however , governments can create “ security ” by printing bonds alone .
as a result , the government is also the winner , and it can get around 6 % of the value of every year in the next 30 years , and those who now see the winner are likely to see their portfolio performance as a result of their portfolio performance during the 2041 period .
a french presidential primer
as former british prime minister harold wilson once put it , “ a week is a long time in politics . ”
so , for more than 30 weeks before the next french presidential election , any prediction that is being made today is likely to reverse and reverse the reversal before the vote .
but two candidates in opinion polls have been ahead of the curve : they are nicolas sarkozy , nicolas sarkozy and ségolène royal , nicolas royal .
in fact , they have other parallels in common , with two people proposing to break with the past , but to reflect some form of succession .
for sarkozy , “ rupture ” reflects both secular skills and deep personal choices .
jacques chirac ’ s 12 years in office , and the tradition of change in france , suggests that victory is a leftist party .
it is the only way to avoid it .
this is reflected in sarkozy ’ s openly pro-american stance – a position that is sorely needed in france , where anti-americanism prevails .
sarkozy ’ s message is that chirac ’ s 和维尔 against the us military invasion of iraq was not wrong , but it was not in the form of it .
so his deep admiration for “ american values ” , though truly sincere , does not mean that president george w. bush ’ s behavior will be agreed .
sarkozy ’ s position was reassured by the french business community , which was startled by dominique de villepin ’ s blatant confrontation with the us when chirac was chirac ’ s foreign minister .
on the domestic front , sarkozy has focused on young people , seeking patriotic , 爱国热情 values , and the values of law and law .
it must be abandoned in may 1968 , when the leader of the revolution and his supporters may lose political damage to de gaulle , but the “ false values ” that they highlighted in the coming decades have weakened france ’ s power considerably .
by contrast , the view against parents ’ generation of the generation is that restoring traditional moral norms can save france – a view that is good for issues like education and immigration .
for royal , the meaning of a “ rupture ” is clearer and clearer .
she tried to become the first woman president in the french republic .
to that end , she would prefer to emphasize his “ essence , ” and to counter sarkozy ’ s “ 实干家 ” record .
she appealed to voters ’ slogans : “ i am a woman who has never been a woman , and you should be able to keep up with the tide . ”
hiding behind the originality in his gender ( in french president ’ s political politics ) , royal has been 闪烁其辞 and unwilling to articulate detailed measures .
when the details of her political arrangements are cast on the details of her political arrangements , the most effective defense ( at least so far ) is : “ if i aren ’ t a woman , you can ’ t dare to ask ! ”
one can only guess what she will make in diplomacy .
on europe ’ s issues , she seems like sarkozy , who , like her , is a new generation of “ 欧洲 ” leaders .
in terms of values , royal also seems to have advocated a rupture with may 1968 , while her emphasis was on the family and the family .
according to public-opinion polls , royal is apparently favored by leftist parties , with the only possible candidate to defeat sarkozy .
the support of women voters is particularly intense .
the real question is whether the real problem is whether it will dare to fight royal ’ s popularity , owing to the legacy of the socialist party that is eager to recapture yet from the first round of the election in 2002 .
in many of the opponents of the socialist and military opponents , the dominance of the media in the political process has led to political moderation : the qualities needed to be elected are incompatible with the qualities needed to govern .
in the view of royal ’ s socialist critics , the political “ 化 ” of the political “ 化 ” brought about a new phenomenon : leaders ’ grandstanding , and the general public has become the main actor .
but the same criticism can be pointed to sarkozy .
moreover , both candidates are consistent with the past , reflecting continuity in policy – sarkozy ’ s policies , royal ’ s legacy , and royal ’ s socialist legacy .
royal openly stated that he will inherit mitterrand ’ s career when he was establishing legal status , and sarkozy ’ s rejection of chirac is far greater than substance .
to a large extent , sarkozy is more competent than chirac , and royal is clearly less than mitterrand .
when voters decided to make final decisions in the spring of 2007 , the determinants may be more likely to come from negative , rather than positive , impression , which was exactly what chirac did when chirac faced the infamous nationalist le pen in 2002 .
as in 2002 , the victory of the electorate will be less abominable and fearful .
but , regardless of who wins , one thing is certain : personalities will become a decisive force above political insights .
a new beginning for sino-japanese relations ?
edmonton – china ’ s president hu jintao will visit japan on may 6 to visit japan , a visit to the second chinese president in history .
in both countries , the visit was carefully handled , and the rest of the world has been watching closely for the visit : china ’ s sino-japanese relations over the past decade have been the most volatile of various kinds of instability , perhaps the most moderate .
when he visited japan ten years ago , when he visited japan 10 years ago , bilateral relations were quickly deteriorating : china ’ s refusal to respond to the country ’ s past aggression in the past , and thus to growing anxiety over china ’ s rise .
japan ’ s media ran overwhelmingly negative coverage , and the visit was remembered as a public-relations catastrophe .
in 2002 , when former japanese prime minister junichiro koizumi took office , he encouraged the introduction of a “ new thinking ” in sino-japanese relations , which could be far removed from historical grievances and promoting a healthier bilateral relationship .
but koizumi not only failed to carry out china ’ s 递出 olive branch , but has pursued a more nationalistic political strategy , including an annual visit to the yasukuni shrine , which is emblematic of japan ’ s militarism .
koizumi ’ s hardline approach infuriated china and angered china , provoking a series of anti-japanese demonstrations in 2005 .
but both japan and china recognize that further tension is not in either side ’ s long-term interest .
koizumi ’ s successor , shinzo abe , and prime minister yasuo fukuda , and prime minister yasuo fukuda have sought to improve relations with china over the past two years , and china ’ s prime minister , wen jiabao , succeeded in beijing last year .
hu ’ s visit is likely to continue to work .
he will emphasize a common strategic interest in both sides , emphasizing bilateral economic benefits , promote positive public opinion , and promote further exchanges .
japan is not only china ’ s largest trade and investment partner , but also the most powerful neighbor in china ’ s hope of maintaining a friendly relationship with the rest of the world , with china doing the rest of the world as a threat to china and the rest of the world .
and japan ’ s economic recovery in recent years should be largely due to deepening relations with china , so japan is also eager to show that japan is not as a threat , but an opportunity , at least in economic terms .
and the two governments will certainly have to use hu ’ s visit to develop a new initiative aimed at promoting bilateral understanding and friendship , to celebrate the treaty ’ s 三十周年 anniversary .
but , unlike 30 years ago , when japan viewed china as one of the most favored countries , the public opinion in both countries is far more negative than goodwill .
behind smiles , polite contacts , and carefully worded diplomatic language , there remains a 暗流 and 暗流 暗流 .
one problem is the disputed waters of the east china sea .
despite new partnerships in energy efficiency and environmental protection , china has made japan the first partner in industrial areas to be industrialized , but there are serious disputes over the territorial waters in japan , where there is a great deal of oil , gas , and other mineral resources .
then there is a serious strategic doubt .
fukuda has stopped abe ’ s negotiations on “ free circles ” – a group of efforts to forge a joint bloc with the us , australia , and india .
but japan remains concerned about china ’ s rapid military modernization , and china fears that the us-japan might join china , especially if the crisis in the taiwan strait occurs .
so , while both sides applauded the “ mutually beneficial strategic relationship , ” there has been much progress on bilateral military exchanges , but there is much work to be done in reviving confidence .
moreover , the current trend toward “ political heat , cool economics ” is replacing the pattern of “ political cold , economic hot ” in koizumi .
last year , japan ’ s exclusive investment projects in china were 24 % lower than in 2006 , while real investment shrank by 25 % , partly owing to china ’ s regulatory changes in capital inflows .
the recent security problems , such as “ 毒 , ” have raised the japanese public ’ s alarm about chinese exports .
finally , historical events can resurface to create new problems .
while fukuda has made it clear that he will no longer visit the yasukuni shrine , 160 members of the parliament have expressed respect for the last month , suggesting that conservative forces in japan are still strong , so the right of future japanese prime ministers will not have to give up the yasukuni shrine .
and , as japan has so far failed to fulfill its obligations to the treaty ’ s share of its obligations , the japanese military abandoned the japanese army ’ s 末期 chemical weapons in the late days of world war ii , and that , if these weapons were causing death in china , the chinese are likely to remind the chinese about the painful experiences of their suffering .
a new start for europe
when europe ’ s leaders assembled in portugal , it is time for the new , 精减 reform pact to pretend that the european integration of the past 50 years had never occurred .
let us imagine what europe needs to meet the most pressing challenges , especially if it can escape the political constraints of the eu ’ s bargaining and ramshackle institutions .
until then , let ’ s hope that , while the eu ’ s “ 零年 ” would mean that we have no basis for a half-century of intra-european cooperation , the eu is still eager to implement long-term common policies .
so let ’ s suspend our doubts and imagine how europe can and should do what it takes to address the most enduring and difficult policy challenges that will determine whether the next half-century will be constructive .
or , in other words , let us take the potential of these problems and the eu to create long-term new policies , and then ask ourselves why the eu did not realize its potential , .
europe ’ s policymakers , for their part , can do better at the national and eu levels : europe can play a greater role in global challenges ; in the context of the european union and the world , it has created and strengthened the efficiency of the eu ’ s own political machinery .
europe needs a clearer and more recognizable global agenda .
it needs to boost leadership on climate change by implementing more stringent eu objectives , and then using its international economic and trade clout to lead the new global standards .
on the conflict and security issues , europe should enter a new phase , with a clear and strong stance on the issues ranging from nuclear proliferation to the sanctions regime .
doing so would aim to make europe a strong and fair player on the world stage , rather than a “ 大圣堂 ” of different views .
the goal is to establish europe ’ s global role , as “ soft power ” tools like eu development assistance and economic partnership are linked to growing political and security guarantees .
of course , this means that the eu should seek to expand its transatlantic mindset so that the eu and the united states are more closely aligned – and thus in the world ’ s interest – to define their common interests in the world .
this is not even a euphemism for the creation of a common foreign and security policy for the eu .
building more human capital in europe and around the world is a crucial factor in the eu ’ s future activities .
education is the highest level of investment that the eu can undertake so far , so it should initiate the most ambitious program in history , creating new recruits and job opportunities within the world , while helping the world ’ s poorest countries expand their education .
europe must also address the endemic problem of migration policy – a problem that has eluded generations of leaders .
we need a european immigration code that seeks to reconcile europe ’ s external labor with widespread demand for the labor force through widespread fear of cultural stress and social unrest .
a europe that is building a fairer and more multi-cultural europe is not easy , but it will have a much heavier price on this issue .
for the same reason , european governments should be doing more to strengthen their shared sense of history and common values .
a stronger european identity is the strongest foundation for creating a culture of culture that is inevitable .
meanwhile , doubts remain over the political and institutional machinery that the eu needs to achieve its ambitious ambitions .
the agreement that the european union ’ s leaders agreed on in a comprehensive review of the organization ’ s decision-making mechanism is a relief , but whether the new agreement will be ratified remains uncertain .
but we believe that the new pact ’ s provisions , which are increasingly being used by the member states , are increasingly using the effective majority of the treaty ’ s approval .
thus , even if the eu ’ s few member governments can not ratify the treaty , it would not be as intimidated as its predecessor , the constitution , in 2005 .
how to help the african dust bowl
seattle – imagine a small farm under a hot sky .
severe droughts affect around the region , with the next harvest bleak , and the financial system lacks the capacity to provide emergency loans to farmers .
this image describes today ’ s southern africa , which is suffering from a historical drought .
this happened to be a description of the “ dust bowl ” weather in eastern nebraska in the early 1930 ’ s – the experience of my family and my family .
my father , ralph 莱克斯 , was the first person to graduate from college .
after graduating in california , he first took office in california , where he wanted to visit massachusetts ’ s graduate graduate in massachusetts .
he did not .
he was forced to stay in nebraska , helping my grandfather save family farms from being repaid , and banks had withdrawn one-third of their land .
my father , the most important change in my father , was a mindset that he sees as a family operation , rather than as a family business .
he turned to the university of nebraska , where he received the university of nebraska , where he received the hybrid corn and other improved seeds that universities are developing .
he then monitors the production of inputs and weather conditions that were unusual at the time .
my father realized that he can not go it alone , and he needs to finance it .
so he helped to create the agricultural credit association , which was originally a customer ’ s identity , and became an adviser and director , a 国家银行 network aimed at helping local farmers to weather the dust bowl .
he also helped to build the nebraska farm business association , which aggregated data collected by his and her peers to determine the best practices .
he worked together with my mother , alice , who runs the family ’ s 禽类 business .
the rural credit association and the university of nebraska ’ s labs and greenhouses stem from the us government ’ s plan to improve agricultural performance .
in 1933 , the agricultural situation was depressed ; with one-quarter of the population living in agriculture , it was needed to invest more in this area .
the federal farm program regards farm farming as a business enterprise , enabling businessmen like my father to prosper .
eight years later , african farmers need to make the same shift , treating their subsistence operations as family-owned businesses .
and , like my father , my father , they have a new approach : to develop new seeds and other technologies for african farms to develop a new seed and the seeds of a new technology .
in october , a group of scientists received the world food prize because of production and distribution of a new crop , producing vitamin a vitamin a in sub-saharan africans , and other new seed varieties are helping farmers weather their 旱灾 drought .
but a recent report by the 联盟 alliance in africa suggests that government investment must follow scientific principles .
agriculture accounts for two-thirds of sub-saharan africa ’ s labor force , and the african union was ambitious in calling for a 10 % increase in investment in the agricultural sector in 2003 .
only 13 countries responded to this call , but their investments – in research and development , services , and financing programs that help farmers use new research research , credit , and financing – have already paid dividends .
the 13 countries ’ agricultural production , per capita gdp , and nutrition are significantly improved .
government investment paves the way for private-sector investment , which is likely to transform the rules of the game for a long period of time .
only 6 % of rural households in sub-saharan africa receive loans from financial institutions .
moreover , nearly two-thirds of africa ’ s agricultural land lacks key access , and many farmers lack the resources and technical knowledge to restore land control , leaving them unable to take full advantage of new technologies .
farmers in africa grow new crop varieties to increase crop varieties by only 28 % , compared to 88 % in asia .
my parents ensure that every child in their children read college .
like them , farmers everywhere want to ensure that their children live in healthy , prosperous lives ; and they all recognize the importance of education .
the farmers i have encountered around the world often want to sell enough extra agricultural products to pay for their medical expenses and send their children to school .
they get caught up in their opportunity , and they worked hard to ensure that their children can gain greater profits in the future .
one hopes that the story of american economic progress like my family will soon be in africa .
as many innovations are concentrated , african farmers ’ farm farmers need their government to invest in their future .
if governments do this , the future will be much better than today ’ s dusty and desperate reality .
africa at risk
addis ababa – climate change has hit africa the first , and hardest hit , continent .
beyond antarctica , africa is the only continent that has yet to industrialize .
indeed , in the 1980 ’ s , the continent ’ s industrialization process has been reversed overall .
africa has thus failed to play any role in the accumulation of greenhouse gases for industrialization .
moreover , africa ’ s current carbon emissions are minimal , with all of africa ’ s carbon emissions coming from deforestation and the degradation of forests and farmland .
but climate change is the biggest blow to africa , because it affects the continent ’ s fragile agricultural sector , which has consumed 70 % of africa ’ s population .
all estimates of global warming may have shown that most of africa ’ s regions will become drier , and the continent as a whole will experience greater climate change .
we already know the impact of periodic drought on tens of millions of africans .
we can therefore imagine the impact of climate change on agriculture .
africa is hit only hardest , and it is first .
indeed , the impact of climate change is already being felt .
much of east africa is experiencing a drought – a direct relationship with climate change – and is more severe than ever .
the upcoming climate negotiations should be targeted against specific parts of the world ’ s poor poor regions .
the first step , the first step , is to keep global warming within the seemingly inevitable range of two degrees celsius , which would make poverty and vulnerability impossible to afford .
second , adequate resources should be provided to poor and vulnerable countries and regions , so that they can adapt to climate change .
climate change , which has been driven by developed-country activities generally , has increased poverty and vulnerability to poverty and vulnerability , exacerbating the development environment .
the resulting losses , however much they spend , are not enough .
but scaling up adequate funds to mitigate the damage may be part of the solution .
as a result , the advanced countries have an obligation to pay for a portion of the compensation needed to pay for poorer countries and regions .
there are various estimates of the investment required to invest in these countries .
one conservative estimate has raised the $ 50 billion annual investment rate by 2015 , to $ 100 billion by 2020 – a proposal that is likely to be adopted precisely because it is conservative .
a transitional financing program will be implemented from 2010 to 2015 .
some argue that , in the current economic mess , the advanced countries have no such amount .
but no one has so far suggested that the loss of growth in poor countries and regions is less than offset by compensation for adjustment costs .
the reason is clear : the losses are several times higher than the amount of compensation required .
even so , the advanced countries can not afford to pay these amounts , regardless of the actual amount of losses .
but we all know that these countries and their central banks have the ability to spend trillions of dollars in a few months to bail out banks that they earned when they were operating smoothly .
when the good times ended , taxpayers and governments were prepared to rescue them , ensuring that they continue to receive additional dividends .
how can it be impossible to do so if the advanced countries were able to show trillions of dollars to clean up banks ’ mess , and how can it be unable to make a dent in the threat that the world can create to its own people ?
the key to the problem is not the relevant resources , but the inappropriate priorities of resource allocation .
the key to the problem is that in some values , the banks should be bailed out , even if banks want to be responsible for the chaos that they have created , and that they are threatened by the chaos that the world ’ s poorest people have already caused .
i can not believe that people in developed countries will support the aid banks and oppose a partial contribution to poorer countries when they know the facts .
i can not believe that they will allow this injustice .
if they do not express outrage about this injustice , they can only be given the truth about facts .
africa ’ s three humanitarian challenges in 2018
nairobi – in the decade since the outbreak of somalia , the outbreak of somalia was virtually paralyzed , and health experts were the worst prepared to prepare .
so far , drought , malnutrition , and poverty remain stubbornly 难除 , and a fatal scenario in which deadly diarrhea is paralyzed seems inevitable .
despite hundreds of millions of deaths , the collective response to the national red cross , nongovernmental organizations , local communities – the red cross , supported by the red cross – has also contained the epidemic .
but it also reminds us that local capacity is vulnerable to crisis .
while some african countries have become self-sufficient in public health , others remain heavily dependent on international aid .
for these areas , cooperation is the best way to minimize risks .
in particular , three major challenges this year are likely to be most difficult to test for africa ’ s ability to manage humanitarian crises .
the first challenge is violence in the drc .
last year , the drc ’ s central kasai region was displaced with 1.4 million people , leaving the total population of the country at 4.1 million – the largest domestic refugee group in africa .
violence has exacerbated food security , with more than three million people severely undernourished .
unfortunately , the kasai crisis will continue to worsen in 2018 .
a recent assessment by the drc ’ s red cross warns that the number of displaced people will continue to grow , and the threat of a rapidly spreading cholera epidemic in the region is urgently needed .
the second challenge this year is somalia ’ s food security problem , which , according to the famine early warning systems network , somalia ’ s food security problem will intensify this year .
in 2017 , lower rainfall levels impede harvests , and most regions have not fully recovered .
as humanitarian aid continues to flow to somalia , long-term solutions must be developed , such as improved agricultural output , education , and economic opportunities .
historically , most aid to somalia has been used to provide emergency relief ; even collective cholera responses are narrowly focused on short-term health .
but somalia desperately needs a more holistic long-term development strategy .
finally , last year ’ s disaster was overcome in somalia , and this year will be sorely needed elsewhere in the region .
yemen ’ s cholera epidemic has reached the largest , with more than one million cases of diagnosis , and , despite years of international support , africa remains beset by cholera .
over the last four decades , african countries have reported three million new cases , and in africa ’ s 中东部 and southern regions , new cases emerged this year .
fortunately , somalia ’ s containment of cholera in 2017 hopes to be replicated , as long as social and personal awareness of cholera and its related risks is clear , and the resources that local actors can receive .
the global task force , the global task force for cholera control , is responsible for improving local and international support for improved health care and sanitation , which has already issued a global roadmap for ending the global road map by 2030 .
though this is an ambitious goal , it is achievable as long as international organizations and local governments work together .
natural and manmade crises will continue to rage in africa , but my and other organizations are working hard to build a brighter future through improved capacity .
but , to succeed , local and international development partners must change their thinking : humanitarian aid alone is inadequate to address africa ’ s huge challenges .
money is clearly needed , but it must be spent more strategically , to improve the structural weaknesses that have sustained instability .
for example , if more money is available to health care at the community level , local organizations would be better positioned to lead when outbreaks occur .
in short , the international development community must invest more in grassroots solutions , empowering africans , rather than treating them as subcontractors to their own difficulties .
local organizations are better equipped to cope with complex cultural and linguistic environments ; but , if they fail , the costs are larger .
last year was a disastrous year for many africans , with millions suffering drought , hunger , and violence .
but in somalia , a coordinated response to severe health threats makes sense of a new hope for a safer future .
for many african countries , there is a long and confident first step toward building resilience than the next one .
british prime minister tony blair has declared that the two major issues of the g-8 summit this july will be africa ’ s poverty and global climate change .
these two themes may look different , but they are in fact interconnected .
that trip helps to explain a village in the Tigre region in northern ethiopia .
one morning , i was brought to the village on a dry riverbed .
farmers are digging a 深坑 in the riverbed , and they have been digging in the ground to the ground .
they explained that this the river was long before the river was not exhausted , and that it flows around the corner , but now that dry season stops .
only in the summer of summer will there be water in the river river .
when it comes to that point , it would be hard to find water , water , and water , as long as there is enough money to find water .
as in many other parts of africa , the rain cycle in north ethiopia has changed markedly in recent years .
the ethiopian village has long relied on two crops to grow in a short rain in march and april , while the main crop grew during the summer season .
in recent years , the short rains have vanished entirely , and long rains have become less stable .
hunger is spreading .
perhaps half of all children are severely underweight .
much of sub-saharan sub-saharan africa , especially in the sahel ( where the region is in the desert south ) , has fallen sharply in the last 25 years .
at the same time , the rise in the surface temperature to the indian ocean has increased , implying that the reduction in rainfall is actually part of the long-term global warming that humans have created .
the lack of rainfall has led not only to famine generation , but also to violence , with hungry people fighting scarce food and water for scarce food and water .
when water shortages in the region , such as darfur and sudan , political leaders viewed the problem from narrow political angles .
when action is taken , they use peace peacekeepers , international sanctions , and humanitarian assistance .
but , like tigre , for darfur , it needs a development strategy that can withstand famine and drought .
there must be a way to help impoverished africa “ adapt ” to climate change and leave the poverty trap .
by improving technology , such as “ drip irrigation ” that can most effectively use the most effective rainfall , 汇集 rainwater , 改良 储水 devices , 深井 储水 , and agricultural 林学 are partly partly immune to climate change .
poor countries themselves can not afford these technologies .
this should not be borne by them .
poor countries in africa or elsewhere provide the help that they adapt to the help of climate change should not be viewed as charity or aid , but to compensate for the planet ’ s poorest , enforceable people .
for decades , providing more of them to these countries has repeatedly arisen from the promise of extreme poverty .
in addition to adapting to climate change , the world must reduce emissions of greenhouse gases to reduce the risk of the planet ’ s future , which is the source of man-made climate change .
while adaptation to climate change is necessary – because it has already happened – it is not enough .
if the world can not mitigate the trend toward future climate change , rising temperatures , more severe 旱情 , more frequent droughts , and the proliferation of tropical diseases will pose a major test for global warming .
the famines in ethiopia and the violence in darfur have heralded the situation .
以碳作 power plants are not permitted to release co2 emissions , dispose of carbon dioxide , and 妥善处理 , such as switching to hybrid automobiles and trucks .
most likely , these three approaches must play a role .
to reduce greenhouse gases also require many efforts , but , given that the global energy system takes a long time , we must begin now .
rich countries should take the lead .
ironically , the united states , which has always defined itself as a friend of democracy and poor countries , provides only the smallest share of gnp , and it refuses to participate in global action to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions .
this is particularly ironic , because african countries like ethiopia are struggling to stand up to freedom and oppose terrorism , even if they struggle to struggle hard in hunger , disease , and famine .
moreover , countries like ethiopia are taking a strong and effective approach to overcoming their problems , despite the lack of adequate help from the world ’ s richest countries .
africans who are suffering from hunger and droughts , as well as poverty everywhere , have the right to demand more for the us and other rich countries .
tony blair has called for his rich-country colleagues to fulfill their unfulfilled promises .
capitalizing on africa ’ s demographic dividend
洛美 – africa has the world ’ s youngest and fastest-growing population .
over the next three decades , as many as 20 million young people join labor , and africa faces opportunities to transform local and global growth balances : employment .
but that is not the final regime .
african countries will need to be educated and trained to take advantage of this demographic dividend , and have ample employment opportunities .
meeting these conditions will not be easy .
our time is uncertain .
the threat of trade tensions between the us and china threatens the integrity of the global value chain , which is likely to lead to greater disruption .
the international monetary fund ’ s forecast of its october forecast warned that as historic economic engines stall , global growth will likely fall to 3.7 % this year and next , with previous projections slowing by 0.2 percentage points .
but as this slowdown is reflected in the world stock market , the new growth engine will emerge .
africa is well positioned to become one of the new engines .
according to the world bank , six of the world ’ s ten fastest-growing economies are in africa .
intra-african trade may become a gateway to future local and global growth , and its vibrant population will create many opportunities for transnational opportunity .
most important , africa ’ s labor force is coming to a boil .
today , 60 % of africans are younger than 25 , compared to less than 15 .
by 2050 , africa ’ s youth population is expected to reach 840 million .
but this huge pool of future talent is a double-edged sword .
despite strong gdp growth over the past decade , most young africans are unable to grasp economic opportunities .
moreover , the african union reports that africa ’ s development dynamics 2018 will emphasize that africa ’ s young people will suffer the most if unemployment trends continue .
unable to employ africa ’ s young people sufficiently to be marginalized for a generation , they will push them to the path that they may not be prepared to undermine .
if not , if high-quality employment remains scarce , the economic expansion that africa can achieve will not happen .
in other words , african governments face the deadline to match job growth with skills training .
unfortunately , few countries can effectively meet this challenge .
according to the african development bank , youth unemployment in africa stands at twice that of adults .
indeed , young people have been left out before they start looking for work .
for example , too many primary schools are severely underfunded , while gender discrimination has left millions of girls in school .
to overcome these shortcomings , it will require significant political and financial capital .
some leaders are moving in this direction .
at the paris peace forum ( ppf ) , held earlier this month , african and global leaders gathered to discuss a powerful concept : international cooperation is crucial to resolving global challenges and ensuring lasting peace .
on the sidelines of the ppf , the focus is on african youth .
as one of the 119 projects chosen to participate in the ppf , the au youth cooperation center has attended discussion of the union ’ s youth agenda .
the program aims to make african and european youth participate in the current and future decisions , aimed at creating strategies that enable african and european cooperation to address challenges like demographic dividend .
one way to capitalize on africa ’ s demographic dividend is to expand training programs to align employers ’ needs with african talent .
as a former member of the ibrahim leadership program , i can attest to the transformative power of good education , as well as the value of 孵化器 incubators .
africa ’ s success depends on its ability to equip young people with technological and innovative skills , as a catalyst for economic growth , thereby capturing the demographic dividend .
this includes training and 训练项目 programs , along with the value chains of raw materials from africa to industries and markets across the continent .
by 2030 , one in five people worldwide will live in africa .
on that scale alone , the size of africa ’ s workforce will likely be the engine of global growth for decades .
to do that , however , africans must undertake unnecessary reforms now .
as our demographic dividend matures , governments , institutions , and organizations must help young people prepare for success .
if african countries can overcome this challenge , long-term economic growth – both domestic and foreign .
africa ’ s path out of poverty
beijing – all low-income countries have the potential to achieve dynamic economic growth .
we know this , because the past has been repeated : poor rural economies have morphed into middle-income and even high-income cities for two generations .
the key is to seize the window of opportunity for industrialization created by the light of light manufacturing in high-income countries .
that was true in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries , and today it remains .
japan seized this opportunity after world war ii , with labor-intensive industries ( such as preventing and simple electronics ) driving the economy , until labor costs contained comparative advantage in these sectors .
this shift , then , led to a similar role for low-income asian economies – south korea , taiwan , hong kong , singapore , and some – malaysia and thailand .
of course , china is the latest traveler on this old path .
and now china has lost its comparative advantage in labor-intensive industries , and other developing countries – especially in africa – are on the verge of replacing china .
indeed , since the industrial revolution , the rise of light manufacturing has driven significant increases in national income .
the british economic transformation began with textiles .
both belgium , france , sweden , denmark , italy , and switzerland are light manufacturing sectors .
likewise , in the united states , cities like boston , baltimore , and philadelphia are the production centers for textiles , apparel , and shoes .
until recently , few believed that africa could also be the center of modern manufacturing .
but , with the right policies , there is no reason to believe that african countries can not follow the same trajectory .
consider land-locked ethiopia , which , ten years ago , seemed to be hopeless .
but it has subsequently built a industrial park near addis ababa to invite china ’ s 制鞋 to make a plant .
the company opened its doors in 2012 , with two production lines and 600 workers .
by the end of that year , the company hired 2,000 ethiopians and doubled ethiopia ’ s exports .
today , the company has 3,500 workers in ethiopia , producing more than two million shoes annually .
in 2013 , inspired by the international success of 受华建 , the ethiopian government built a new industrial park that includes 22 factory units .
in three months , all units were leased by export-oriented companies from turkey , south korea , taiwan , china , and elsewhere .
the world bank provides $ 2.5 million to support continued construction of industrial parks .
ethiopia ’ s success story is only a start .
as investors learn about africa , they will increasingly see africa ’ s plans .
indeed , africa ’ s labor costs are large , and ethiopia can even attract companies such as bangladesh .
africa ’ s agricultural labor force is too small to rest .
as long as foreign firms operate in labor-intensive industries with comparative advantages in africa , they can train local labor .
some workers will be managers .
they will be familiar with technology and learning how to maintain the quality of their production .
they will contract with international buyers and investors .
at the end of the day , some of them will be able to raise capital for their own start-ups – the african people ’ s own export companies .
mauritius is a case in point .
in the 1970s , the government built industrial parks to produce textiles and garments for export .
back then , owners of some factories came from taiwan and hong kong ; today , more than 70 % of the country ’ s industrial companies are in their country .
a carefully focused export strategy is essential .
international development institutions and many african governments want to move in the region to regional integration , linking markets to market linkages in 55 african countries .
today , africa accounts for just 1.9 % of global gdp , compared to 21 % in the us and 23 % for europe .
developing countries must devote limited resources to the most efficient places , and there is no doubt that africa ’ s most attractive opportunities are yet to be found .
for example , 埃塞 russia should not invest heavily in the infrastructure needed for regional integration , investing in building industrial parks and road links with ports in djibouti .
with the right growth strategy , we can see far-reaching changes – and even change – in lifetime .
my native taiwan is now a high-income economy .
but when i was born in 1952 , the island was poorer than almost every country in africa .
then again , i experienced this shift .
i went to mainland china in 1979 , when china ’ s per capita income was less than one-third of sub-saharan africa ’ s .
china is now a high-income country , and it is likely to be high-income status by 2020 .
i hope to see a third economic transformation in my lifetime – in ethiopia and other african countries .
if they are able to insist that other countries have tried and tested , my hope is very likely .
the promise of digital health
basel – africa has changed dramatically since the young in angola 20 years ago , and the better .
but the most obvious is the mobile technology of africa .
africans – indeed , all those in low- and middle-income countries – are seizing the opportunities provided by technology to use mobile phones to distribute mobile phones and access to health care .
the advantage of mobile technology lies in access .
barriers to geographical distance and resource scarcity have long hampered billions of people from the care they need , and these barriers can easily be overcome in the digital age .
in fact , technology can be used countless ways to improve access to health care and delivery .
of course , this is not new news , and a growing number of technology-based health-care innovations have been made in recent years .
but only a few innovations have created scale and sustained long-term sustainability ; most projects have not yet endured the experiments .
as a result , digital solutions are highly fragmented – in some cases , adding extra constraints to existing health-care systems .
the first step in addressing this problem is to do nothing – and which obstacles impede success .
here , the most important observation relates to how the solutions relate to reality .
after all , technology is the result of innovation in health care , which is not an end in itself .
solutions that focus on end-users – whether doctors or patients – are most likely to succeed .
the key to this approach is to recognize that what users need is not necessarily the most advanced technology , but rather the ability to use and implement solutions .
indeed , seemingly outdated technologies such as voice and text messages can become tools for the expected users , far more useful than the most up-to-date innovations in APP or , say , nanotechnology .
consider ghana ’ s community-based health improvement program , which i led , and 360 360 , which i led .
the program supports patients through regular mobile health care to remind them of their functions , and to manage recommendations in the necessary way of life .
the penetration rate of mobile-phone penetration is 80 % , but only a few people have smartphones , but such a simple solution is still the most effective .
for health-care workers , digital solutions must make them more efficient , rather than adding to their already costly workload .
people working with the rich world to achieve health-care services in low-resource settings can help to ensure that the solutions are implemented .
for example , the telemedicine networks that novartis and its partners have joined with ghana ’ s ministry of health are directly responsive to the demands of health-care workers to expand coverage of health-care professionals .
the network gives the frontline health workers a phone call to a center for referral hospitals , which work hours for hours , with doctors and specialists at the time .
from the outset , the project was designed to respond to the need to expand coverage of health-care experts , and that the ministry of health workers operate responsibly , enabling the model to achieve scale and sustainable sustainability .
to realize the potential of digital health , solutions must be integrated with national health systems .
only then can digital technologies accelerate progress toward universal health coverage and address national priorities .
cooperation on health care and ict – including private and public cooperation – is essential .
multidisciplinary partnerships , driven by sustained leadership by senior government officials , must be guided by the planning stage .
governments working to finance a digital solution to digital health solutions and effective governance mechanisms are key to success .
digital technology provides a huge opportunity to improve health care .
to seize these opportunities , we must learn from past experience .
by focusing on the reality of end-users and the most important medical needs , rather than lost the latest technologies , we can achieve the promise of digital health care .
confronting africa ’ s water challenge
abidjan – the world is essential , but many of the world faces water scarcity .
because of the impact of climate change , africa is experiencing the worst drought in 1945 , especially in south sudan , somalia , ethiopia , and northern nigeria .
these fragile regions now need international support .
we need to build resilient systems that ensure access to potable water for all , and to improve water supplies and sanitation in africa ’ s rapidly growing cities .
we should start by raising africans ’ ability to harness wastewater .
through investment and appropriate management , wastewater can continue to provide wealth for many africans , and to boost human health , agricultural productivity , and sustainable environmental protection .
over the past six years , the african development bank has invested $ 33 billion to expand access to potable water and sanitation , with roughly $ 2.2 billion in urban services for at least seven million people .
the african development bank supports a comprehensive urban model of water management , which seeks to keep the un sustainable development goals under article 8 of the un sustainable development goals , ensuring sustainable income from urban liquid and solid waste .
a comprehensive city of water management requires considerable initial investment , and the cost of money and operational operations is significant .
only a few african cities collect and treat more than 20 % of wastewater through centralized wastewater-management systems .
the remaining 80 % have a potentially large amount of potentially valuable liquid and solid waste .
with appropriate investment , foresight , and commitment , these sources of resources can create jobs and generate sustainable growth .
the 管理 is thus central to the african development bank ’ s focus on the quality of life , which aims to increase africans ’ quality of life , promote public health , achieve gender equality , create jobs , and make society more vulnerable to climate change .
meanwhile , water will play a critical role in achieving the high 5s ’ industrialization and sustainable agricultural goals .
and one of the $ 40 million invested in health programs in the african development bank helped to reduce the proportion of the city ’ s 雅温得 population from 16 % to 12 % .
in abidjan ’ s capital , abidjan , côte d ’ ivoire , the value of the $ 30 million in the value of the afdb ’ s investments has dramatically reduced the number of floods in the 古鲁 basin , significantly improving the lives of 28 million inhabitants .
in zimbabwe , in the wake of the outbreak of the cholera outbreak in 2008-2009 , the african development bank and other donors financed the $ 4 million emergency water supply and sanitation programs that have been allocated to the city ’ s more than 25 million emergency water and sanitation programs .
all the african development bank supports the sustainable development principle , in order to ensure that it improves economic gains and the affordable costs that local communities can afford .
these projects also help countries to harness wastewater and waste by converting sewage to fertilizer and fertilizer .
moreover , the african development bank ’ s african water facility ( AWF ) program complements its program by attracting downstream funding to water infrastructure .
in february , flooding and 飓风 尼奥 of tropical storms devastated the coast of mozambique , severely affecting the local population ’ s production .
but just a few weeks later , the water facility in africa has launched a feasibility survey that aims to improve the capacity and livelihoods of 莫桑比克 , mozambique , which suffered a storm attack .
the gpe , together with the global water partnership organization , is implementing a comprehensive urban water management program in five african cities , including the democratic republic of congo and in zimbabwe .
by 2030 , in the democratic republic of congo alone , comprehensive urban water management can help to improve water delivery and sanitation .
the bill & melinda gates fund also uses the african development bank ’ s expertise to support the afdb ’ s urban health-care program by providing $ 88 million .
this effort would help to foster commercial innovation that offers affordable , sustainable , and sustainable services to africa , which could benefit two million residents directly , and another six million people through subsidiary projects .
africa ’ s wastewater-management challenges are huge and complex .
but the afdb is determined to provide opportunities for africans to deliver dividends , regardless of public health , improved health , economic development , or environmental protection .
improving the quality of life in all africans requires political resolve , public-private partnerships , and active public engagement .
under the high 5s framework , the afdb is working to integrate all three ingredients .
africa and all stakeholders in africa must redouble their efforts to ensure clean , affordable water for all , and provide assistance to african countries suffering from historic droughts .
doing so is a moral obligation .
after all , water and life are connected .
is africa still rising ?
washington , dc – from 2000 to 2014 , africa achieved strong growth , creating a belief in the “ africa rising . ”
but , since 2015 , growth in sub-saharan africa has slowed , while the gloomy outlook for commodity prices has raised questions about africa ’ s economic future , with many questioning the emergence of “ africa ’ s rising ” narrative – a point that some have claimed to be dead .
to some extent , such skepticism is understandable .
the 2014 oil-price shock hit some african economies very serious , and the overall growth rate has fallen from 5-6 % between 2004 and 2014 to 2.5 % from 2004 to 2017 – a growth rate that is still less than population growth .
moreover , africa ’ s three largest economies – angola , nigeria , and south africa – have experienced a dramatic decline .
last year , angola and south africa have stagnated , while nigeria has experienced the first real contraction since 1991 .
recent projections suggest that these economies ’ recoveries will be slow for years to come .
but africa ’ s skeptics overlook many important factors .
first , if you exclude three largest economies , sub-saharan africa ’ s overall growth rate will rise from 2.5 % to close to 4 % this year .
in fact , five of the ten fastest-growing economies in the world are in africa .
over the next five years , about half of sub-saharan economies will be at as much as the average growth rate of “ africa ’ s rise . ”
moreover , high commodity prices are only one factor in the region ’ s strong economic performance between 2000 and 2014 .
many african countries have made great strides in macroeconomic management , governance , and business conditions , and entrepreneurship is booming .
even if commodity prices fall , these developments can still support many african economies .
today ’ s skepticism may reflect memories of the dark ages , as well as concerns about africa ’ s progress .
from the 1970s to the mid-1990 ’ s , many african countries were ruled by dictators , and the institutions needed to sustain strong economic growth were fragile .
the civil war has repeatedly bedeviled social structures in many countries , and decades of economic growth in africa have been slow .
by 2000 , africa had become the economist ’ s “ hopeless africa . ”
but these days are gone .
african policymakers have maintained the reforms of the 1990 ’ s , laying the groundwork for continued growth .
while much work remains to be done , the economic and business environment in many african countries has continued to improve , and institutions and governance have become stronger .
thanks to new information and communications technologies , africans , especially young africans , are learning more about information and more actively in civil and political affairs .
information and communication technology has also unleashed a wave of innovation and entrepreneurship in africa .
these positive trends are difficult to reverse , and will continue to improve africa ’ s economic conditions , even if commodity prices can not rebound .
after all , from 2000 to 2004 , the rapid rise in commodity prices did not begin , with average growth in africa at 5.6 % .
but this is not to say that africa will not face daunting challenges for years to come .
around the world , economic conditions are even worse for africa ’ s economies .
in major advanced economies , interest rates will soon rise , and political opposition to globalization may force governments to abandon their commitments to development aid .
faced with all of this uncertainty , african policymakers should look inward , focusing on mobilizing financing policies for national resources and economic agendas .
these agendas should include a set of critical priorities .
african countries need to diversify their economies to withstand future shocks better , while the entire continent needs to accelerate the pace of industrialization .
governments must find a way to create decent jobs for the 11 million africans who join the labor force each year .
they also need to take steps to reduce poverty , ensuring that prosperity is shared by all .
these objectives are particularly important for angola , nigeria , and south africa .
angola and nigeria need to reduce their dependence on oil ; south africa still needs major reforms to address structural problems that have plagued it since the apartheid era .
these projects will require a capable leader to uphold the principles of good governance .
failure could lead to long-term growth .
but even if africa ’ s three largest economies eventually fall into depression , the story of “ africa ’ s rising ” story may not be entirely rejected .
from the 1960s to the 1990 ’ s , the “ asian tigers ” narrative was confined to hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan , and none of the other developing economies in china , including china , were in the same place .
likewise , the gap between africa ’ s economies is widening , and thus should be assessed on the merits of their respective economic policies .
africa still rising
johannesburg – is the honeymoon over african economies over ?
less than a decade ago , with a staggering gdp growth and development in many countries , the continent ’ s economic dreams seemed to be becoming a reality .
now , as the continent becomes increasingly vulnerable to the challenges of challenging external conditions , it is difficult to sustain the growth rate .
in china ’ s economic slowdown , the sharp drop in commodity prices , and the drag on security crises , africa ’ s annual gdp growth rate was just 3.3 % in 2015 , just as fast as that of the population – a sharp slowdown compared to the record in 2000 .
but deeper observations suggest that the situation may not be as severe as it seems , with two main reasons .
first , while average growth has declined , some african countries have thrived in recent years .
in fact , the oil exporters ’ economic woes and security crises in the sahel and north africa have been in place since 2010 ; but , in other parts of africa , gdp growth accelerated , from 4.1 % in 2000 to 4.4 % between 2010 and 2015 .
second , africa is experiencing a deep long-term transformation characterized by rapid digitization , urbanization , and the working-age population , which will surpass china and india in 2034 .
such a demographic trend could unlock future economic growth by advancing economic diversification , spurring domestic consumption , and supporting industrialization .
indeed , today ’ s high-growth countries – including côte d ’ ivoire , ethiopia , kenya , and tanzania – have made substantial progress in reducing dependence on commodity exports , developing trade , investment , and domestic consumption .
and many slow growth countries can take a similar path .
according to the mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) , total spending by african consumers and firms has reached $ 4 trillion .
by 2025 , private spending could reach $ 5.6 trillion – $ 2.1 trillion from the household sector , and $ 3.5 trillion from businesses .
this creates enormous opportunities for manufacturers in africa .
we believe that africa can almost double manufacturing output by 2025 , and 75 % of the growth is closely tied to local markets .
the question is whether manufacturing firms can exploit the growth potential of the past .
african firms have not yet proved capable of meeting existing domestic demand .
africa ’ s food , beverages , and similar processed products still depend on imports , while the association of southeast asian nations imports only about 20 % , and south america ’ s mercosur group imports only about 10 % .
even a 15 % of africa ’ s cement is dependent on imports , though africa has abundant raw materials .
to be sure , african firms have made considerable progress in recent years .
today , 400 african companies have achieved more than $ 1 billion in annual income , and there are more than 500 million annual annual income .
in general , these large firms are growing rapidly – and increasingly lucrative – than their counterparts in the rest of the world .
but there is a long way to go .
the average annual income of $ 2 billion in large african firms ( except in south africa ) has averaged half of brazil , india , mexico , and russia .
and more than 40 % of the continent ’ s large companies can be equal to other emerging economies .
one key factor limiting corporate growth is the fragmentation of african markets , with the existing african market comprising small economies with limited economic and political ties .
only egypt , morocco , nigeria , and south africa are ranked top 100 in the global connectedness index of the mckinsey global institute .
in addition to trade barriers , africa suffers from inadequate links to free movement of people and transport .
africans need visas for more than half of their continent ’ s countries .
the recent launch of the african union passport is a step in the right direction – but only a step forward .
stronger market integration will not only create the economies needed to compete for african businesses ; it can also attract institutional investors .
building such markets therefore must be a top priority for african leaders , so that it can unleash the continent ’ s economic potential .
it is equally important that african leaders work hard to improve the business environment .
although some progress has been made over the last two decades , non-tariff barriers remain high .
indeed , regulatory issues remain severely constrained .
many african businesses – almost half of nigeria ’ s businesses , angola and egypt – emphasize that electricity supplies are unreliable to them .
almost 40 % of the world bank ’ s survey of investigative firms has limited competition for informal firms .
some of these problems are being addressed faster .
since 2007 , for example , rwanda has made significant progress in establishing the business environment in rwanda .
in less than a decade , the commission has led the creation of the “ 一站式 center ” for promoting investment , the rapid application of regulatory structures , and a fixed fee for a fixed fee for property registration , customs extension , and 海关检查 海关检查 .
as a result , rwanda ’ s global ranking in the global business environment jumped from 143 in 2008 to 32 in 2014 .
the rest of africa can certainly replicate such success .
despite the challenges facing african countries , the continent has enormous economic potential , thanks to the optimistic demographic trends , rapidly growing cities , thriving domestic markets , and digital revolutions .
africa will still have a rising opportunity as long as he , carrying out it , and decides to do so .
africa ’ s moment of development
new york – the african development bank has just released its economic outlook for africa in 2018 .
a revised version of the version of this year – more than a year ago , a more appropriate structure of analysis , and no exaggeration – reflects the continent ’ s own transformation , because it may finally see the hope of the continent ’ s long-awaited economic development .
africa ’ s rise has been constant .
in the 1960 ’ s , there was strong hope .
an independent generation of leaders – including ghana ’ s kwame nkrumah and kenya ’ s 乔莫 kenyatta – received the advice of the world ’ s top economists .
the 加勒比 nobel laureate arthur lewis became nkrumah ’ s chief economic adviser .
in india , we read these leaders ’ friendship with our own post-independence prime minister , jawaharlal nehru , and see all emerging economies new .
and many emerging economies do take off .
in the late 1960s , some east asian countries were growing rapidly .
beginning in the early 1980 ’ s , china embarked on a decade-long rise .
but africa remains stagnant , mired in poverty .
ironically , the continent ’ s resource wealth has impeded economic progress , owing to the conflict between the government and the militants eager to control them .
the resulting political instability attracts outsiders keen to exploit government weaknesses .
the indian poet and nobel laureate 拉宾 tagore coined the “ african 颂歌 ” in 1936 , when he expressed his views on civilization , noting that the continent became the prey of a “ civilized world , ” as the arrival of 殖民者 殖民者 becomes more dynamic .
eventually , in the turn of the twenty-first century , things began to change in africa .
some dynamic leaders , active democratic events , and emerging regional cooperation led to poverty reduction and growth rates .
commodity exporters experienced some setback in 2014 , when prices plummeted .
but this has gradually evolved into a 变相 , because it forced countries to increase production and diversify their economies – factors that underpin new growth .
the african development bank reports that africa ’ s 54 economies grew by 2.2 % in 2016 , and 3.6 % in 2017 .
the african development bank predicts that average growth will increase to 4.1 % in 2018 , while the world bank expects ghana to grow by 8.3 % , ethiopia ’ s 8.2 % , and senegal by 6.9 % , and the world ’ s fastest-growing economies .
these figures are not wishful thinking : ethiopia ’ s gdp grew by 7.6 % in 2016 .
of course , africa faces serious challenges .
south africa , the continent ’ s strongest economy , is now facing a difficult task of addressing entrenched corruption .
but , because the anc is now clearly determined to replace president jacob zuma ’ s scandal with the government of president jacob ramaphosa ’ s administration , there is reason for hope .
more broadly , many african countries need to find ways to create more jobs quickly .
the share of the working-age population in africa is rising faster than any other region .
this “ demographic dividend ” could have enormous potential .
but if job creation stalls , the unemployed or under-employed will most likely feel frustrated – and thus conflict .
consider tanzania .
thanks to president john 马古夫里 ’ s efforts to mobilize more domestic revenue to support additional development spending , the economy is now doing well .
but , with some 800,000 children joining the workforce each year , tanzania needs more working , better infrastructure , and education reforms aimed at ensuring that workers have decent jobs , resources , and opportunities to ensure decent employment .
the same is true in ethiopia .
in the last few decades , the country ’ s export-led growth has made considerable progress , supported by industrial growth and massive investment from china ’ s massive investment .
now , ethiopia is set to become an economic powerhouse in east africa .
but the urban youth unemployment rate has remained at 23.3 % : if unchecked , this is likely to lead to ethnic conflict and political instability .
another related challenge concerns resource mobilization : countries need to invest in infrastructure , human resources , and trade and digital linkages that are needed to invest in africa and beyond .
the african development bank report estimates that infrastructure investment alone will require about $ 170 billion annually in the continent , which is roughly $ 100 billion per year .
currently , africa receives a total of about $ 60 billion in foreign direct investment in foreign direct investment .
african governments must attract more funding to bridge this gap .
the challenge , at least , is daunting .
but african countries can learn from one another .
for example , ghana ’ s smooth transfer of power after the december 2016 election set a positive example of democratic institutions .
nigeria ’ s lagos state and tanzania are doing very well to mobilize internal resources for development .
add to that the rise of the indigenous intelligentsia , such as the african development bank , which seems to be in the offing .
africa ’ s schooling 失教
accra – as september begins , the news has received good news from nearly a half-million students attending high school : · 总统 fulfilled his promise to deliver free secondary education to children in the country .
he swore not only to withdraw fees , but also provide free textbooks and meals – both of which have historically been a barrier to the poorest students .
ghana began free compulsory education in primary and secondary school in 1995 , but it was poorly implemented – and students ’ educational dreams ended up before high school .
even in 2014 , only 37 % of the country ’ s students were enrolled in secondary school .
the president ’ s move is an inspiring example that should follow .
unfortunately , despite these incremental reforms , students in africa still face serious obstacles to achieving genuine universal education .
even in ghana , poor and rural children are still struggling to benefit from new secondary education policies .
things may be worse in the rest of the continent .
the problem is not just that there is a lack of access to schools , but also a lack of good schools .
a startling report by the unesco institute for statistics shows that six of the world ’ s ten children and adolescents – six million people – have not learned basic skills in math and reading .
in sub-saharan africa , 88 % of children and adolescents enter adulthood without basic literacy .
this constitutes a moral and development crisis that would require immediate action .
the department of education , the department of education in ghana , which serves as the director of education university , has learned from my experience that one of the main issues is education ’ s lack of education and absenteeism .
the world bank has also made a “ return to schooling ” in a new report , which also confirms my view .
addressing this will require investing more in the world , promoting teaching as the professional honor of the country ’ s builders , while encouraging the best students to take the lead .
we can not expect a small , poorly educated teacher to learn from a weak education .
we must also invest more resources – including from scholarships for poor students to new libraries and classrooms – to improve schools and learning .
because many african governments are unable to provide citizens with equal access to quality education , this is not a challenge that they can afford to assume .
as the continent ’ s population grows – half the world ’ s population growth between 2017 and 2050 – africa ’ s heads of state must work closely with major allies and multilateral organizations to finance and share core educational skills .
fortunately , as unesco reports , several partners have already stepped up .
french president emmanuel macron is perhaps the most prominent among the heads of state promising to invest africa ’ s education investment as a priority .
as the un ’ s main education and cultural organization , unesco itself will play a critical role in pushing for free , high-quality schooling in the continent .
the new director-general who took office next month will also have an opportunity to develop the right agenda to address this challenge .
notably , france ’ s candidate , former minister of culture of culture , will put unesco ’ s internal crisis and education at the top of the agenda .
she presented the fiscal dilemma as the biggest threat to unesco , and has emphasized more dialogue with member states , such as the united states , than the united states .
in his previous administration ’ s role , azoulay helped launch a program of global cultural diversity and a plan to protect cultural heritage in conflict zones .
she also called for unesco to treat education as a catalyst for development and gender equality , and is the best way to help combat “ ideological radicalization . ”
she promised that , if elected , the sdgs will be sustainable – quality education for the 普适性 – as a core mission for unesco , and especially in africa .
in part , the preamble to the preamble of the unesco charter points out : “ because war begins with people ’ s hearts , it is time for the preservation of peace . ”
unfortunately , in africa , we all know what will happen when efforts to build peace eventually fail .
islamist militants continue to impose threats on mali , and in 2013 they burned down a library of thousands of valuable historical manuscripts in the cultural center of timbuktu .
this is not only a serious blow to the world ’ s cultural heritage ; it also reminded people that africa was a center of cultural exchange , literature , and education , and it needs to act .
africa faces high risks .
our children are not only threatened by a lack of access to schools , but also a lack of opportunities to learn from their own histories .
we really want more national governments to follow ghana ’ s example , more like france ’ s allies like france , and the new director-general will be more important in africa than ever before , all of which will be more important than ever .
africa ’ s year of opportunity
geneva – we have just entered the beginning of 2018 , and we already feel that tensions and disorder will be the defining feature of this year .
from anti-immigration policies in the united states to the region ’ s remarkable geopolitical hotspots , disruption , instability , and uncertainty seems to be in place today .
but at least one metric has reasons for cautious optimism : economic development .
the imf estimates that this year ’ s global economic growth will reach 3.7 % this year , up from 3.6 % in 2017 .
as christine lagarde , the imf managing director , put it in a speech in december , “ sunshine is penetrating clouds and helping most economies achieve the strongest development since the financial crisis . ”
lagarde made such an outcome in addis ababa , because the rays of prosperity are most impressive in africa .
indeed , as eight key areas grow , i predict that 2018 will be a year in many – though not all – african economies .
first , africa is about to achieve a slow economic recovery even if it is 断断续续 .
after three years of weak economic performance , overall growth is expected to accelerate from 2.9 % in 2017 to 3.5 % today .
this year ’ s expected growth rate stems mainly from global environmental improvement , increased oil production , and the ease of drought in the east .
to be sure , growth is not balanced .
while almost one-third of africa ’ s economies will grow by about 5 % , economic growth in more than a dozen african countries could slow .
this is especially true of nearly half of sub-saharan africa ’ s public debt , which has risen to 50 % of gdp .
but , overall , africa will have a positive year .
second , africa ’ s political landscape is liberalizing .
some of africa ’ s longest-serving presidents , including robert mugabe in zimbabwe , angola ’ s josé eduardo eduardo 和 , and the gambia ’ s yahya 叶海亚 , have dropped in 2017 .
in january , libyans witnessed the transfer of power for the first time since 1944 , when former soccer star george weah was sworn into office .
all of this progress will be tested as voters in 18 countries come to vote this year .
several african countries continue to be politically vulnerable , including the central african republic , burundi , nigeria , south sudan , and somalia .
the third source of optimism is africa ’ s agricultural sector , where farmers are finally realizing their potential , most of which are women .
agricultural yields in africa are expected to reach $ 1 trillion by 2030 .
it is precisely the best time to emerge ; almost two-thirds of africans depend on agriculture to sustain their livelihoods .
large chunks of 未开垦 land , young labor , and the emergence of a “ agriculture entrepreneur ” are increasing output and reforming the entire economy .
fourth , africans are benefiting from technological disruption .
with more than 995 million mobile subscribers , africa ’ s growing information interconnection is helping to accelerate innovation .
key sectors such as agriculture , health care , education , banks , and insurance have already begun to transform the region ’ s business landscape .
fifth , african leaders are serious about curbing illicit funding from corrupt practices , with the corrupt majority occurring in the oil and gas sector , which is about $ 50 billion per year .
although us legislators are pushing for the repeal of the dodd-frank financial reform act of 2010 – which includes the requirement that oil gas and mining companies disclose the regulations to government payments – they will not be able to increase transparency and establish a responsible and responsible trend .
for example , the panama papers and paradise papers have revealed in underground systems such as tax havens and shell companies , and billions of dollars out of the world ’ s poorest countries , including many african countries .
with the g-20 and the oecd working hard to fight tax evasion , africa could soon benefit from global efforts to end the curve .
sixth , africa ’ s energy sector is set to flourish .
while tractor million africans still lack reliable access to electricity , innovations like renewable energy , mini-grids , and smart metering are benefiting more people from energy facilitation .
in south africa , renewable energy has taken off ; the price of wind power is now competitive with coal prices .
ethiopia , kenya , morocco , and rwanda also attract substantial investment in renewable energy .
the seventh area showing signs of progress is education .
to be sure , africa ’ s educational products remain low ; in sub-saharan africa , more than 30 million children are out of school , even if those children do not have enough knowledge .
but many african leaders and citizens have recognized these shortcomings ; in some countries , including ghana , education has even become a decisive issue for voters .
as the education commission highlights , some countries are increasing investment in education .
this creates an opportunity to align learning outcomes with future employment needs .
but , with more than one billion young people living in africa by 2050 , investment in education is urgently needed .
finally , it is increasingly focused on building 泛非 identities , and african fashions , films , and food are moving toward new markets .
as cultural connections continue to grow , africa ’ s soft power will continue to grow and powerful radiation outside the continent .
in many corners of the world , 2018 is becoming a disappointing year , as inequality and poverty continue to fuel anger and populism .
africa will not be immune to such developments .
nonetheless , the continent ’ s residents have at least eight compelling reasons for optimism , and most of the rest of the continent has no such luck .
johannesburg – in october , the european union announced a plan to invest $ 40 billion in investment in africa , an african “ marshall plan ” that would boost african economic growth , create jobs , and eventually reduce african youth to europe .
“ it ’ s impossible to say that immigrants will stay home , ” the european parliament president 塔 雅尼 said , “ we have a chance to live with a decent life . ”
tajani is right .
unfortunately , his approach is wrong .
for almost six decades , well-meaning foreign governments – many of them from europe – have invested heavily in africa , but have little impact .
the ongoing solution to africa ’ s development challenges will certainly require funding , but it also requires important adjustments to foreign partners .
africa ’ s relationship with europe is most needed .
the problem is much deeper than money ; it may even be a philosophical issue .
africa and europe have a long history of relationship , with complexity and pain .
europe will impose its governance system , values , and then impose its trade approach on africa , which has been saying that africans need to be trained to modernize , need to be modernized .
this 庇护 partnership is no longer tenable , and it is crucial to change this dynamic .
the fifth african union summit , in abidjan , côte d ’ ivoire , concluded last week in abidjan , côte d ’ ivoire .
at the african union summit , “ investment in youth ” has become the focus of the focus , and it has also made the complex connection between the two sides .
one conclusion is clear : the eu ’ s current solution to migration in africa is outdated .
if europe ’ s strategy to address the migration challenge relies solely on money , it is doomed to fail .
the 倾斜 relationship between the colonial era is long gone .
today , europe needs africa more than africa needs europe , especially in human capital .
over the next 15 years , some 440 million africans will enter the labor market , and europe is only 200 million .
african job seekers will need work , and europe has jobs .
aging populations have already begun to influence european growth , and , as labor has declined , vacancies are expected to rise .
even if it is possible , the care of europe ’ s pensioners will be paid to the african youth .
these demographic differences imply a significant potential for rethinking economic and political ties .
without migration , the redistribution policies dependent on the european welfare state will not withstand the current rate of aging .
not only is it more difficult to take care of an aging population ; obtaining sufficient revenue to fund social security systems will become increasingly difficult as the dependency ratio rises .
migration policies that emphasize mobility are essential to support european industry , household consumption , and ultimately social-welfare financing .
strategic competitors like china and india have already recognized the human capital potential of young africans , and europe must move quickly to attract and retain – rather than resist – african professionals .
many of africa ’ s students are studying abroad each year , many of which will find their place in a globalized economy .
the us , canada , china , the middle east , and africa themselves are increasingly competing for these highly educated and highly educated students .
just as europe in the sixteenth century required the continent ’ s gold , there was no african diaspora , and europe ’ s twenty-first-century europe will be elusive .
so , for europe , europe must not succumb to political calculation , but in this regard other economies .
instead , europe should work to achieve mutually beneficial employment schemes , thereby maximizing both peoples and cultures , most notably through skills transfer .
europe ’ s recognition of its need for africa is a necessary paradigm shift , and that we hope to bring about rational cooperation .
in an increasingly uncertain world , africa and europe can lay the groundwork for smarter partnerships by changing their foundations .
if it does not , it will be high .
but much of the price will be borne by europe .
the rest of the world has already embarked on talent , and the biggest impact is not africa .
gender equality for african scientists
kigali – a ethiopian girl can grow up as long as it is able to find a proper mentor to a new approach to crop yields .
a young woman in malawi has a new idea of cancer for cancer , but if she is forced to stay out of school forever .
a girl in rwanda has all the skills to create mathematical models to mitigate droughts ; she needs just a research grant to help her .
there are global gender imbalances in science , technology , engineering , and mathematics – the so-called stem disciplines .
but in africa , not only is the future being threatened by such imbalances .
it also deprives the continent of talent and contributions needed to advance development and progress .
according to a 2011 african development bank report , “ bringing women to science and technology ultimately benefits society . ”
while gender equality in science , technology , engineering , and mathematics can be achieved , many african scholars are showing how they will lead the world .
but they need help , and programs that provide scholarships and support are the best way to achieve scientific equity .
the reasons for africa ’ s scientific , technological , engineering , and mathematical imbalances are often compared to a leaky cocktail : girls are full interest and talent when they are beginning , but they are forced to quit in the education stages .
early data from the mastercard foundation ’ s aim of reversing these trends show that a comprehensive approach to plugging the leaks will change the entire picture .
it is successful to acknowledge that gender equality in science , technology , engineering , and mathematics has begun .
the “ science needs us ” is the words of 阿曼 库瓦希 , a former mastercard foundation scholar and industrial engineer .
“ different ideas and perspectives can lead to better solutions and thinking , which drives scientific innovation forward and benefits across africa . ”
the right thing is true .
africa can not afford to squander its young female talent .
sub-saharan africa faces shortages of 2.5 million engineers , technologists , mathematicians , and scientists .
this lack of expertise could threaten several sustainable development goals , such as food security , health care , clean water , sanitation , and energy and infrastructure .
eliminating gender barriers in science , technology , engineering , and mathematics will require african governments to prioritize scientific equity issues .
most successful in rwanda , our collective experience has helped more than 250 girls and young women have done well in these disciplines .
the african institute for mathematical sciences in kigali , rwanda , is one of the drivers of this change .
innovative approaches to mathematical science in africa include helping governments to train teachers , ensure that a number of girls in classrooms , support for the classroom , and work with industry leaders to help graduates achieve success .
to attract more female students , 30 % of the school ’ s scholarships are reserved for female applicants , and schools want to reach 50 % in the near future .
likewise , carnegie mellon university in kigali is promoting change by allocating 30 % of its scholarships to young women .
such a move would have a positive impact on the entire educational system , because the african carnegie academy of carnegie university is actively taking steps to increase enrollment rates for women .
finally , the forum for education in africa has funded the education of 1,200 students in the country ’ s excellent high school , technology , engineering , and mathematics .
in these students , an estimated 70 % of the population is expected to learn the science of science .
despite these positive developments , quotas alone can not achieve parity .
opportunities outside the classroom will require lasting gains .
at the african women forum for education , rwanda , a 项目 project called “ making us publicly express ” through play , 歌唱 , and creative art training , and taught them with a speech , negotiation , and decision-making technology .
rwanda ’ s education professionals forum also collaborated with teachers to develop pedagogical methods .
likewise , the african carnegie academy of carnegie university was invited to participate in a school symposium on the minds of schools , the annual global gathering of undergraduates , at the meeting of undergraduates , students , government officials , and industry representatives to demonstrate their achievements .
moreover , according to the 精选 project of the african institute for mathematical science , the world ’ s highest youth scientist and the technical workforce – 40 % of whom are women – provide the opportunity to lead their own research , while encouraging the next generation of scientific thinkers .
inequalities in girls and young women in africa can not be eliminated overnight .
as 丽贝卡 丽贝卡 , a mastercard foundation scholar at uganda , has said , “ my classroom once called us ‘ 假小子 , because if you were a woman and a university , you are 假小子 . ”
but , 丽贝卡 added , “ the science of science is cool . ”
africa needs more women like 丽贝卡 , technology , engineering , and mathematics .
to ensure that science is attractive to women , schools , governments , and industry must work together to educate teachers and teachers , while funding the gender gap .
as the other mastercard foundation scholar 米兰达 米兰达 recently noted , “ when we want to find new creation and inventions to promote economic development , i believe that mathematics and science are at the forefront of progress .
as professionals who do best to improve african education , my view is that i am not .
liberal democracy in africa can wait
yaoundé – african policymakers understand that strong economic and political leadership is essential to growth and stability .
for years , africa ’ s economic performance has been better than expected , which is a commitment to improving governance .
the question now is how to sustain this momentum .
the current strategy does not provide sufficient answers .
at the recent african economic conference in addis ababa , ethiopia , leaders pledged to keep governance reform at the top of africa ’ s agenda , but they did not offer a roadmap .
from my perspective , this gap is an opportunity to think about new governance paradigms , including the “ washington consensus ” and the paradigm of “ beijing . ”
development practitioners have long debated that model is the best framework for reform .
simply put , “ governance ” refers to a dynamic rule of law , structure , and process to help governments manage the economy , politics , and 行政事务 .
but there is a different approach to the principles that governments should focus on .
since trump ’ s presidency , the united states , which has remained africa ’ s primary donor , has begun to focus more on the principles favored by china – such as political stability , trade , and counterterrorism – than human rights .
the reason is that the beijing model is better for africa in the short and medium term .
while acknowledging that this may not be popular , trump has a point .
simply put , food , shelter , health , and good sanitation are more important for most africans than to voting rights .
moreover , only when the population is richer and creates a healthy middle class can the rights of democracy be fully demanded .
ironically , the best way to build a strong middle class in africa is to adopt the principles pursued by china ’ s model at all levels .
for africa , the governing approach , the adoption of washington consensus , requires its leaders to work toward improving institutional effectiveness and economic management .
the first set of reforms should include establishing clear borders with international partners .
africa ’ s relationship with western donors , for example , has historically placed individual rights above national rights .
but in my view , individual rights should not go beyond sovereignty .
punishing the country for the laws that affect the minority would backfire .
one example of this collective punishment occurred in uganda in 2014 , when the world bank froze roughly $ 90 million in loans .
at the time , uganda ’ s government spokesperson said that the world bank “ should not capture its members ” to accept western values .
but , when the governance model is judged solely by the standards of the washington consensus , there is little choice .
at the same time , the second set of reforms concerns economic rights rather than political rights .
politicians who manage the economy , for example , should not have term limits .
neither singapore nor china is democratic ; but both leaders have used their political power to improve living standards .
forcing leaders to step down in the medium term could prove counterproductive .
none of this seems far-fetched .
today , in rwanda , one of africa ’ s success stories , leaders have improved stability by abandoning the governance approach of the washington consensus .
politically , rwanda is strong , organized , and disciplined , but not free .
the landslide re-election of president paul kagame last year has not stemmed from democracy .
although kagame remains popular , his government was criticized for stifling free speech and oppression of human rights .
my conclusion is not that human rights are important , but the political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy that are acceptable to the ongoing improvements in economic and institutional governance .
we should be intellectually honest and spade a spade a spade .
the people of rwanda need not be ashamed that they are more ashamed than their fair economic and administrative strength .
so the question facing other african countries seeking to reform the governance model is to emulate rwanda ’ s approach .
neither the washington consensus nor the beijing model is all the answer .
but , as rwanda shows , if discipline and strong leadership can improve lives and provide public goods , perhaps liberal democracy should be a long-term priority .
dar es salaam – my grandmother is 76 , and my grandfather is 83 .
they live in a remote village in the southwest of the southwest of uganda , raising crop grazing crops .
but whenever i think of them , i am more in awe of their health than their hard work .
because of the remote region ’ s remoteness , each of my grandparents needs to travel to the nearest hospital in a hospital that is known to be known as boda 前往 .
then , because they had recently been forced to withdraw from medicare , they had to cough up more money to pay for their bills .
in other words , for my grandparents – and for many of africa ’ s elderly people – the doctor is not only troubling , expensive , and rare .
access to health care has become 强迫症 强迫症 .
in may , at the who ’ s annual world health assembly , officials from dozens of countries discussed how to achieve universal health coverage through the united nations sustainable development goals .
but maternal and child attracts vast swaths of the attention ; the discussion of elderly people in developing countries is largely ignored .
without this omission of omission , a growing number of people in africa will lack access to affordable health care .
according to the world bank , life expectancy in sub-saharan africa has been rising steadily in recent decades , from only 40 years in 1960 to 60 today .
if this trend continues , the number of africans aged 60 years old will double by 2050 .
this is certainly good news ; longevity is a key indicator of human development .
but africa ’ s aging population will have devastating consequences if longevity means that the disease suffers from inadequate health care .
in uganda , many rural health-care centers are inadequate to meet older patients ’ needs , supplies , and infrastructure .
it is often a few miles away , too , that the most elderly patients typically turn to the most senior hospital .
riding a motorcycle on a bumpy terrain could worsen health conditions ; but , because there is no other option , the vulnerable must choose between a bumpy ride and abandoning treatment .
no wonder some chose the latter .
according to a 2010 survey by doctors at the national referral hospital in kampala , surgeons are the main causes of uganda ’ s road damage .
during the survey , motorcycle passengers accounted for 41 % of the city ’ s 1,500 trauma cases , compared to 62.5 % of the 该院 budget .
given the dangers that may arise , it is no wonder that my grandparents are reluctant to seek medical services .
of course , like elsewhere , money is the biggest 障碍因素 of health care in uganda .
in 2015 , researchers at the university of 雷雷 found that household income was the primary determinant of elderly people ’ s access and access to health care .
the situation is similar in the us , where the average annual health-care costs have been increasing in recent decades .
but while older patients in the us can use medicare ( 15 % of federal spending in 2017 ) , the elderly in most african countries lack the government ’ s support .
nonetheless , the lack of resources does not mean that african leaders must ignore older voters ’ needs .
by combining care services with existing programs , health benefits can be extended to underserved populations .
for example , initiatives like the hiv/aids treatment programs , such as the hiv/aids treatment program , can be incorporated into the health care of elderly people .
health-care workers in the service of pregnant women and mothers could also be trained to provide 上门 medical services for elderly families in generations .
developing countries have made significant progress in improving health care for young people .
now we must provide the same services to the elderly .
in uganda , a strengthening of the elderly ’ s health-care strategy could easily be achieved by adding the elderly to the list of so-called vulnerable .
other means of expanding access to health care are the existing health-care framework , such as ethiopia ’ s health extension program , tanzania ’ s community-based health program , and the rural health teams of my country .
finally , to prevent the exclusion of poor older patients , there must be radical reform of the community ’ s health insurance programs .
to ensure health care for the elderly and protect the elderly from financial bankruptcy , we need to reform programs that are financially sound and broadening their base base .
everyone is hungry for longevity , health , and productive life , like my grandparents .
but without a decent quality health care , longevity can be achieved without science .
the extent of how to treat the most young and oldest members can determine the extent of society .
the same reasoning applies to governments .
africa ’ s last decade
vienna – since 2000 , africa ’ s economy has grown impressive , owing largely to the long-term prosperity of development aid and commodity .
although the continent has shown great diversity in socioeconomic development , growth rates often mask the absence of structural transformation .
many african countries still have not experienced the kind of transformation needed to achieve long-term social inclusion and environmental sustainability : industrialization .
wherever industrialization is occurring , it certainly fosters economic diversification , helping to nurture , strengthen , and maintain the conditions needed for competitive development and growth .
in recent decades , some developing countries – mainly in asia – have managed to industrialize .
but , despite repeated attempts , african countries have failed to industrialize .
in 2014 , the region ’ s share of global manufacturing value added was 44.6 % , compared to just 1.6 % in africa .
with only one industrialized country in south africa , sub-saharan africa is the least industrialized region in the world .
to achieve sustainable development , african countries must increase the share of industry – especially manufacturing – in areas like national investment , production , and trade .
to be sure , most african countries have already recognized that such a transformation will be needed to address the range of interconnected challenges that they currently face .
one challenge is population growth .
more than half of the continent ’ s 1.2 billion people are under the age of 19 , and almost one in five are between 15 and 24 .
every year , 12 million new entrants are added to the workforce , and they need the tools and skills to ensure future living standards .
industrialization is essential to helping africa ’ s fast-growing population achieve a demographic dividend .
the related challenge is immigration .
many of africa ’ s most ambitious and entrepreneurial young people are joining others with the rest of the population .
but no country , especially in africa , can afford to lose so much talent and potential .
industrialization alone can not solve the migration crisis , but it can be addressed by creating jobs in the countries of origin .
to meet this challenge , africa needs to develop and apply green technologies while attracting more investment in resource efficiency and clean energy .
if there is plenty of investment , african countries can reduce the cost of transmission to rural areas and contribute to global efforts to reduce the impact of climate change and mitigate climate change .
in short , africa must industrialize , and it must do so in a way that ensures social inclusion and environmental sustainability .
given that sustainable development efforts in africa have largely failed , it is clear that a new approach is needed : sustainable development must take care of a broad basis , and to take advantage of financial and non-financial resources , promoting regional integration , and foster partnerships between africa ’ s development partners .
indeed , the un general assembly has declared that the 2016 period is the third of africa ’ s industrial development .
during the third decade of industrial development , the united nations industrial development organization ( unido ) , which i lead , will spearhead the new approach to sustainable development .
the united nations industry development organization supports partnerships with partners to mobilize resources , while providing a 验证 model for african countries .
the pcp in the united nations industrial development organization provides technical assistance , policy consultation , and investment to countries that help them design and implement industrialization strategies .
the program was launched in 2014 , and has been successfully implemented in two african countries , such as ethiopia and senegal .
the national partnership provides a model of 以多 partnerships that can be implemented after the national development agenda adjusted .
it aims to coordinate cooperation with government governments and its partners , while providing additional funding and investment to the sectors that have high growth potential and key sectors of the government ’ s industrial development agenda .
people often choose to create jobs , attract investment , and export their export potential as a priority , and one condition is that raw materials must be easily accessible .
the national partnership initiative aims to maximize the impact of all partner projects and programs associated with industrial development .
to achieve this , strategic partnerships with financial institutions and the corporate sector are particularly important .
with these , african countries can raise more resources for infrastructure , innovation , expertise , and new technologies .
unido ’ s goal is to make the pcp model the mainstream model adopted by all african countries .
we are ready to support africa ’ s progress toward inclusive and sustainable industrial development – or after the third decade of african industrial development .
africa ’ s decade of industrialization
vienna – in today ’ s interdependent global economy , africa remains weak .
to achieve the sdgs , the united nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development will have to be achieved by promoting rapid and responsible industrialization .
africa is hardly a drag on the world economy .
rather , it is promising to become the engine of the world economy – and the next decade .
but , to realize its economic potential , africa must industrialize .
the importance of this has been repeated in the recent international forum , including the sixth international conference on development in tokyo last august and the g20 summit in hangzhou in september .
the g-20 , for the first time , will have the industrialization of africa – and all of the least developed countries .
the african union ’ s agenda 2063 also supports industrialization in africa .
the recent united nations general assembly resolution will be a third decade in africa ’ s industrial development , which is the latest decade of this .
the organization i represent , the united nations industrial development organization ( unido ) , took the task of executing and leading a multi-pronged program , including mobilizing the resources needed .
all of these declarations and commitments are important first steps .
the question is how .
the short answer is money and action .
we must urge the international community and the development partners to fulfill real cash promises .
we must build partnerships with partnerships that enable africa to become the world ’ s next major engine of economic growth .
these programs must acknowledge and address the acute challenges facing africa .
economic growth in recent decades has not been structurally driven , unsustainable , and fully inclusive .
indeed , africa ’ s growth rate is very different , and not all countries are benefiting .
while africa ’ s middle class has expanded rapidly in recent years , creating a consumer boom has also boosted domestic investment , but many are still 艰难度日 .
unemployment is high , especially among young people and women – a reality that many africans have moved to north .
to retain these people , african economies can not simply produce raw materials , but also build a dynamic and competitive manufacturing sector that is more valuable .
here , africa must seize the opportunity to participate in global and regional value chains .
new and innovative industrial development strategies must be introduced , and a careful effort to attract foreign direct investment .
of course , developing such strategies and effective engagement in industrial value chains requires knowledge .
investment in education and skills training is key to successful and sustained industrialization .
by understanding and deploying effective innovations from around the world , africa can technologically catch up with more advanced countries , building the capacity to produce more sophisticated , higher-value goods .
understanding other countries ’ experience also helps africa avoid the pitfalls of laissez-faire industrialization – particularly environmental damage .
africa must ensure that its industrial development strategy includes effective environmental safeguards .
africa is well placed to industrialize .
beyond the rich natural resource endowments , africa has favorable demographics ( rapidly growing population means that it will soon have the world ’ s largest labor force ) and high urbanization rates .
africa also benefits from an educated diaspora .
but industrialization is not automatic .
governments must step in to address market failures , while planning , implementing , and implementing industrial policies that address the shortcomings of previous ineffective solutions .
they must also institutionalize these countries ’ national and regional development strategies .
to succeed , governments must have sufficient energy , capacity , and legitimacy to mobilize stakeholders and interact with them , thereby creating attractive investment climate .
implementing the necessary reforms will open the doors for public-private partnerships , while public-private partnerships provide infrastructure development and maintenance .
governments will also facilitate cooperation with international organizations and development institutions , which can provide more funds , and help african countries upgrade their capacity .
the g20 ’ s report in hangzhou , hangzhou , offers africa many recommendations .
the report proposes support for agricultural and agribusiness development , enabling them to connect with other sectors and take steps to strengthen resilience to price shocks .
moreover , the report emphasizes the need to deepen , broaden , and update local knowledge reserves , invest in increased energy and raw materials , and promote green technologies and industries .
i have met with africa ’ s leaders countless meetings and visited dozens of african countries , which have led me to believe that africa is committed to industrialization .
indeed , industrialization has already begun in many countries , including ethiopia , ghana , rwanda , and senegal .
by providing our commitments and support , we can enable these countries to achieve inclusive and sustainable development , benefiting everyone .
a roadmap for african industrialization
abidjan – africa is at a crossroads .
today , six of the world ’ s ten fastest-growing economies are in africa , with annual gdp growth forecast for 4.1 % in africa , compared to 3.6 % in 2017 .
but africa ’ s economic growth has not led to a commensurate job creation , especially for women and young people .
indeed , today ’ s jobless growth may even reverse the progress of poverty reduction in recent years .
the problem is that africa ’ s growth , while impressive , is unstable , because it is driven mainly by commodity prices in commodity prices .
the economic impact of this imbalance should not be underestimated .
it , together with other factors , led to the world ’ s 75 % of the world ’ s cocoa , but only 5 % of the chocolate market of chocolate markets per year .
despite the vast amount of natural resources , africa still needs to be at the mercy of commodity prices and trade flows unless it achieves deep structural shifts .
as soon as it is time for africa to unlock the transition from agriculture to manufacturing , the continent should unlock its real economic potential .
in africa ’ s integration into the global economy , manufacturing is the weakest link .
today , primary products ( raw materials ) account for 62 % of africa ’ s total exports , the highest in the world .
at the same time , the total per capita export exports of 2014 amounted to just $ 128 , with the lowest among the world ’ s lowest , well below other developing regions , such as the us dollar and the latin american dollar .
clearly , africa must begin to catch up .
fortunately , globalization is important for global consensus , and it is in everyone ’ s interest to make africa the global manufacturing force that it should be .
the african development bank ( afdb ) has identified the “ five priorities , ” which made industrialization the most important work .
likewise , industrialization is an important component of the 盟 agenda .
in 2016 , the united nations general assembly announced the 2016 “ third decade of industrial development in africa . ”
without concrete action , however , these pronouncements are meaningless .
to change africa ’ s economic trajectory , african policymakers must focus on three key areas : industrial policy , manufacturing financing , and leadership .
we now know that industrial policy is effective in spurring growth .
the question is whether countries have the capacity to implement their policies .
if they are , they can channel resources toward industry , using technologies that can be used to tap agriculture and manufacturing .
many african countries are already moving in this direction .
ethiopia , for example , has created special economic zones to reduce production costs by investing in infrastructure .
as a result , ethiopia has become africa ’ s largest hub of textile manufacturing , attracting major players like h & m and 普利马 .
but industrialization can not thrive without electricity , roads , and railways , so infrastructure must be critical .
at the moment , the afdb believes that africa ’ s infrastructure gap is $ 170 billion a year .
closing this gap requires not just more financing , but also innovative thinking , particularly in the innovative thinking of public-private partnerships .
here , the afdb has expanded loans for new infrastructure projects in several countries .
as part of our “ new energy deal in africa , ” we increased investment in renewable energy , and to generate $ 20 billion to develop two solar power plants in mexico .
in côte d ’ ivoire , energy demand soared at an annual rate of 8-9 % , and we invested $ 60 million in upstream building hydroelectric power .
african countries should do so , in order to achieve the demographic dividend of africa ’ s population bulge in the years ahead .
as manufacturing activities expand , the need for stronger knowledge and skills underpinned the economy ’ s investment , which requires boosting investment in education and boosting technical and vocational skills and training .
no country can modernize without industry .
but , more broadly , there will be no functioning industrial sector without strong leadership .
consider mauritius , where it was a low-income single economy in the 1970s , with per capita gdp of just $ 250 .
it is now in a high-income country , with economic diversification and per capita gdp of $ 9,600 .
it is often seen as a model for economic success in africa .
how can this be made ?
as former prime minister and president 格纳特 格纳特 put it : “ no miracle .
it is simply efforts to work , discipline , and will .
leaders who want to develop a strong manufacturing base must have the political will to allocate resources fairly and to the private sector .
mauritius also confronts a wide range of challenges when moving from low-end manufacturing to technology-intensive goods and services .
but now it has become an example of what committed leadership can accomplish .
other african countries are pursuing their own economic transformation when energy efficiency is available .
in short , africa will be well positioned to seize the many opportunities that the global economy offers emerging markets .
it has resources and labor ; now it needs a firm leader like 贾 to implement the right policies .
africa ’ s other development path
washington , dc – several recent projections suggest that several sub-saharan african countries will achieve strong economic growth in the next five years .
from 2000 to 2023 , roughly one-third of the region ’ s economies will grow at an annual rate of 5 % or higher .
but , as the economist observed last year , africa ’ s development model “ puzzles economists . ”
after all , only four of the continent ’ s high-growth countries are resource dependent .
and overall development is not driven largely by industrialization , as the traditional development model predicts .
what explains this strong economic performance ?
according to the forthcoming book industries 无烟工业 : rethinking africa ’ s industrialization , there is evidence that sub-saharan africa is undergoing a deeper structural transformation than we think .
africa ’ s structural transformation is not the result of traditional industries , but new developments in tradable services and agricultural sectors that resemble traditional industrialization .
beyond horticulture and agricultural operations , these new industries include services and communications technology and communications technology .
this is the opposite of the historical norm .
traditionally , as harvard university economist dani rodrik points out , economies that have sustained strong growth rates without relying on high prices of natural resources are “ typically achieved through export-oriented industrialization . ”
but in africa , manufacturing accounts for about 10 % of total economic activity , and economic activity moved from agriculture to services .
because productivity growth in services is only about half that of manufacturing , the overall productivity gains needed for sustained growth are relatively small .
this process of premature deindustrialization is not unique to africa .
but , given the scale of the development challenges that africa faces , this process makes sense for the continent .
because its labor force is young and growing rapidly , africa now needs to create more than 11 million jobs in the formal economy each year .
but , as the nobel laureate economist joseph e. stiglitz has warned , africa can not replicate east asia ’ s manufacturing-led model , so the question is whether it can achieve economic development through modern services .
according to the brookings institution ’ s “ forward african forward : the priorities of the 2018 priority ” report – the report ’ s conclusions , the report ’ s conclusions – that africa ’ s services export grew sixfold between 1998 and 2015 .
in kenya , rwanda , senegal , and south africa are thriving , based on information and communications technology .
in rwanda , tourism has become the single largest export activity , accounting for nearly 30 % of the country ’ s total exports .
ethiopia , ghana , kenya , and senegal are all integrated into global horticultural value chains , and ethiopia has become a major player in global 花卉 exports .
as these industries grow , they generate new models of structural change unlike the manufacturing-led transformation in east asia .
if properly restarted , these industries can play a role in africa ’ s development as well as east asian manufacturing .
manufacturing boosts growth in east asia , for three reasons : first , productivity in manufacturing is more productive than agriculture , which can absorb a large number of low-skill workers from the agricultural sector ; and , third , east asia ’ s manufacturing sector is in the opposite direction .
as john page , one of john page ’ s 编者 编者 , has said , africa ’ s growing service sector has the same characteristics .
beyond tradable , they have high productivity and can absorb a large number of middle-skill workers .
as in manufacturing , they also benefit from technological change and the size of the economy .
moreover , africa ’ s smokestack-less service sectors have the advantage of being vulnerable to automation .
while automation has many benefits , it poses challenges to the top priority of the country ’ s top priority job creation .
while economists are increasingly convinced that africa ’ s development model will be different from east asia , they are uncertain about this model .
an 模式 model provides a potential answer .
from a policy perspective , african leaders should explore more support by targeted reforms or incorporating them into national industrialization strategies and broader development agendas .
the development of industry industries can go hand in hand with efforts to develop industry , thereby providing a multifaceted approach to africa ’ s structural transformation .
hoping for african infrastructure
johannesburg – as the us federal reserve moves to “ reverse ” the stimulus package that began nearly a decade ago , emerging economies increasingly fear that the dollar will have a negative impact on the solvency of dollar-denominated debt .
but if the fed ’ s continued withdrawal from stimulus has provoked african nerves , it is also recognized that a more sensible approach to development finance is more sensible than borrowing in dollars .
in the existing proposal , one specific asset class stands out : infrastructure .
africa is expected to reach 26 billion people by 2050 , so it is urgent to build and maintain infrastructure , ports , and grids .
according to the world bank , africa must spend an astounding $ 93 billion annually to upgrade its existing infrastructure ; most of these funds – roughly 87 % – will be used to improve basic services such as energy , water , health , and transportation .
but if there is any experience in the past , it is that the money needed is not easy .
between 2004 and 2013 , africa ’ s countries did just about the financing transactions of infrastructure or industrial projects , valued at $ 5.9 billion – just 5 % of the total required .
given these past experiences , it is difficult for africa to fund even a small fraction of the world bank ’ s projected requirements .
the most obvious funding is institutional and foreign investment .
but , so far , many factors , including poorly predicted earnings projections and political instability , constitute a serious constraint on financing for infrastructure projects across the continent .
investing in infrastructure projects in africa is viewed as a high-risk option .
fortunately , as some investors – such as the african development bank , the southern african development bank , and the trade & trade bank – have shown , such negative perceptions can be overcome .
companies from the private sector are also profitable in financing infrastructure projects across the continent .
for example , the black rhino funds established by blackstone are one of the world ’ s largest multinational private-equity companies , with the development and procurement of energy projects such as fuel storage , pipelines , and delivery networks .
but these are the exceptions , not the rule .
adequate funding to address africa ’ s infrastructure shortfall requires a rapid appeal to more investors .
to succeed , africa must develop a more concerted approach to pandering to capital , while working hard to control investors ’ risk exposure .
public-private partnerships provide a possibility .
in energy , for example , independent electricity producers are working with governments to provide electricity to 620 million africans who have yet to access the grid .
these producers of electricity production are financed by private donors and accepted government regulations , by purchasing agreements to operate , and the public health sector and regulatory agencies agreed to purchase electricity in advance of their own prices .
there are roughly 130 such electricity producers in sub-saharan africa , valued at more than $ 8 billion .
south africa alone is in the middle of 47 projects , with a total of 7,000 megawatts of additional power capacity .
similar private-public partnerships are emerging in other sectors , such as transportation .
the most promising is toll toll roads built by private investment in south africa .
projects emerging in the rest of the continent are more profitable than most financial markets ; and they are actually paving the way for future economic growth .
clearly , africa needs more such ventures to meet the challenges posed by infrastructure .
as a result , my business leaders and policymakers in africa are calling for an african institution to invest 5 % of its funds to invest in local infrastructure .
we believe that infrastructure can be an attractive and attractive asset class as long as incentives are appropriate .
one sector that can lead this goal is the continent ’ s pension funds , which have roughly $ 3 trillion in balance sheets .
the 5 % agenda that was launched in new york last month highlights the belief that a collaborative public-private approach can change africa ’ s infrastructure shortfall .
but in 2012 , the african union adopted the african infrastructure program , launching more than 400 energy , transportation , water , and communications projects .
this is a very good start – one that is based on the 5 % agenda .
but some key areas of reform must be reformed .
the key objective of the 5 % agenda is to help upgrade national and regional regulatory frameworks , thereby channeling investment in african institutions .
similarly , new financial products must be developed so that asset owners can allocate funds directly to infrastructure projects .
unlocking new funding flows would help create jobs , encourage regional integration , and ensure that africa has infrastructure projects that meet future generations ’ needs .
but all of this depends on persuading investors to put their money in africa ’ s projects .
as business leaders and policymakers , we must ensure that the conditions for profit and social impact are mutually exclusive .
if development goals are aligned with profits , everyone wins .
unlocking africa ’ s internet
washington , dc – what the government of addis ababa surprised is that “ the ninth zone ” has become a household name in ethiopia .
since 2012 , this group of small journalists has used social media to demand that countries achieve political freedom and civil liberties .
its success – such as the number of likes and comments that can be measured on its facebook page – is the result of the government ’ s attempt to silence the writers , including the arrest of six members in 2014 .
ethiopia ’ s government is not the only government attempting to consolidate political power by restricting citizens ’ online rhetoric .
across africa , many governments have implemented laws restricting internet access and criminalizing criticism of elected officials .
digital campaigners face myriad censorship techniques , such as “ border 网关 protocols , ” “ http 限流 , ” and “ deep 封包 tests . ”
the irony , of course , is that censorship rarely enables discontent .
instead of repressing dissent , the government has stimulated more people in WhatApp , facebook , twitter , and other social media platforms , and africans are exposed to increasingly challenging governments , revealing rigged elections , and demanding their voice .
at the moment , however , few african leaders are listening .
in the 18 african countries that held elections in 2016 , nine of the world ’ s nine countries had managed to restrict dissent to contain dissent .
four days before uganda ’ s presidential election in february , president yoweri museveni cut off mobile payment services and social media websites .
in august and september , gabon ’ s president , 班戈 班戈 , wanted to build an atmosphere of calm in the face of the international community .
in december , officials in the democratic republic of congo ordered the internet to close the internet before president joseph kabila expires , in order to suppress the online dissent that he refused to step down .
internet blackouts violate human rights and undermine democratic processes .
last year , the united nations human rights council adopted a resolution affirming “ the rights of people online , online and offline , and especially free speech . ”
most african governments use their argument that internet embargoes are necessary to ensure public safety and security .
museveni , for example , claimed that cutting off internet access was the only way to protect visiting heads of state in his inauguration .
but he has offered no evidence that social media access and security in uganda or any other country have security .
according to the international community , which promotes digital rights “ soon , ” the internet has typically made it less safe , because people can not be exposed to information or with friends .
in zimbabwe , president robert mugabe of 93 % of the age of 93 is expected to be 履任 in his eighth term ( beginning in 2018 ) , and the government ’ s dominant crackdown appears necessary .
for decades , mugabe relied on intimidation and violence to stifle political dissent .
so it is not surprising that he has already been hostile to online activities .
last year , his government shut down the internet during political protests , and vowed to arrest anyone who has been attacking or sharing “ defamation or subversive material on social media . ”
but citizens are not hopeless .
while governments can command internet access , only telecommunications companies have the ability to hit the “ death switch . ”
as a result , african bloggers and online activists must work more closely with investors and shareholders in communications firms to persuade them to stand up for democracy and human rights , rejecting illiberal government directives .
moreover , civil-society groups , the african union , and the un should do more to condemn legislation aimed at limiting the internet ’ s policies .
in 2013 , the african union issued a model law for information contacts , which now should give countries a new guide to how to safeguard online collection and expression .
finally , new continent-wide measures are needed to ensure that africa ’ s online rights gain government and recognition and respect .
although the un human rights council resolution , which protects online freedom , is not binding , it provides a starting point for ensuring that governments allow citizens to use the internet as a tool for maximizing political participation .
these interventions are more needed than ever .
kenya , zimbabwe , and the ethiopian legislature are considering legislation that significantly expanded government control over internet access .
last year , tanzania implemented a legislation that was used to prosecute president john magufuli ’ s personal prosecution of president john magufuli on social media .
no matter how different the government is to bar citizens from gathering , signing petitions , or banning access to the internet and posting on social media .
all of these measures are meant to strip citizens of their rights .
ninth , the fight against freedom is as true as it is in the digital domain .
seizing africa ’ s high returns
washington , dc – since 2000 , at least half of the world ’ s fastest-growing economies have come from africa .
and , by 2030 , africa will have 1.7 billion people , with its total consumption and business spending amounting to $ 6.7 trillion .
seven years ago , harvard business review pointed out that africa was home to the world ’ s largest opportunity .
but , despite the huge commercial potential , africa has not been at the top of the western business leadership .
in fact , from 2014 to 2016 , america ’ s exports to africa plummeted by almost half , from $ 38 billion to $ 22 billion .
and while britain ’ s investment in the continent has doubled by more than doubled between 2005 and 2014 , to 亿英镑 billion ( $ 576 billion ) , exports to africa accounted for just 2.5 % .
the west ’ s challenge to china is rapidly losing its edge , from 2005 to 2015 , when china ’ s exports to africa increased by more than $ 103 billion – up to $ 103 billion .
if western firms want to keep up with china , they will have to take advantage of africa ’ s growing potential for growth .
by 2030 , more than half of africa ’ s population will reside in seven countries : nigeria , ethiopia , the democratic republic of congo , egypt , tanzania , kenya , and south africa .
but , more important , 43 % of africans will rise to the upper middle , compared to 39.6 % in 2013 , meaning that demand for goods and services would increase substantially .
by 2030 , household consumption is expected to reach $ 2.5 trillion , compared to just 1.1 trillion in 2015 .
but algeria , angola , ethiopia , ghana , kenya , morocco , sudan , and tunisia all have an opportunity to offer lucrative returns .
any of these countries can offer good opportunities for new markets .
by 2030 , food and beverages ( $ 40 billion ) , education transport ( $ 390 billion ) , and housing ( $ 90 billion ) will become the continent ’ s most valuable industries .
but , as with consumer goods ( $ 35 billion ) , hotels , and entertainment ( $ 600 billion ) , health care ( $ 175 billion ) , financial services ( $ 175 billion ) , financial services ( $ 85 billion ) , and telecommunications ( $ 6.5 billion ) will grow strong .
of course , whether growth will eventually be achieved will depend on the african union ’ s success in implementing its new frontier of the free trade area , which will create a single market for goods and services , providing a single market for businesses .
moreover , the cfta will increase the need for connectivity , thereby creating new opportunities for investment in sectors like infrastructure and transportation , energy , information , and communications technology ( ict ) .
to this end , the african development bank could help investors to find a prospective project through its african infrastructure development program .
africa ’ s corporate spending will be another major growth area between now and 2030 , which will amount to $ 4.2 trillion , compared to $ 1.6 trillion in 2015 .
the main sectors will include agricultural and agricultural processing ( $ 650 billion ) , manufacturing ( $ 650 billion ) , construction , architecture , public utilities , and transportation ( $ 84 billion ) , and the telecommunications and communications technology ( $ 650 billion ) , and telecommunications and communications technology ( $ 325 billion ) , and telecommunications and communications technology ( $ 49 billion ) .
the projected growth in agriculture and agricultural processing reflects the fact that food and beverages will account for the highest share of household spending in africa .
moreover , 60 % of the planet ’ s unused land is located in africa , even though africa still has a meager contribution to world agriculture .
this means that africa has enormous growth potential .
and , because severe hunger still affects many african countries , investors could even drive up the public good by investing in fertilizers , machinery , water , and irrigation .
by 2012 , africa ’ s highest growth rate in agricultural value-added countries included burkina faso , ethiopia , nigeria , mali , mozambique , rwanda , and tanzania .
moreover , angola , morocco , and south africa now have large markets , and are working to expand their agricultural sectors .
according to harvard business review , africa also has the potential to become “ the next big manufacturing center in the world . ”
by 2030 , china expected to lose over 15 million low-cost , labor-intensive jobs , and africa will take many of its jobs .
this helps to explain why manufacturing is second to business spending .
another reason is that many of africa ’ s manufacturing opportunities come from global competition areas like automobiles and transport equipment , refined petroleum , computers , office , and industrial machinery .
south africa , egypt , and nigeria have become the region ’ s emerging land .
investors can also find high returns and favorable business environments in ethiopia , morocco , and rwanda .
africa is the world ’ s last frontier market , and western businesses need to follow china , beginning to tap its considerable potential .
doing business in africa will also create sustainable job creation while pushing for sustainable development goals for the united nations to eliminate hunger and poverty .
and that , too , is a good thing .
as the business and sustainable development commission shows , achieving the sdgs ’ “ new market opportunities for all of the trillions of dollars will be open to a new market for all . ”
strengthening africa ’ s science
乌尔班 , illinois – in late march , africa ’ s distinguished scientists , innovators , and policymakers gathered in kigali , rwanda , to find solutions to an increasingly pressing problem : poor scientific quality in africa .
good leaders know that scientific discovery and innovation drive progress , promote development , and help address issues like food insecurity , water shortages , and climate change .
but most african governments have failed to provide sufficient funding for domestic research and development .
in the west , the share is close to 3 % .
this disparity underscores the development challenges africa faces .
africa accounts for 15 % of the world ’ s population , 5 % of gdp , but research spending accounts for only 1.3 % .
moreover , africa ’ s innovators have just 0.1 % of the world ’ s patents , meaning that , even when it comes to science , innovation , and research , results rarely translate into solutions to africa ’ s most pressing challenges .
to be sure , these trends are not universal ; some african governments are investing in technology-driven innovation .
in south africa , for example , authorities have promised to double r & d spending by 2020 , to 1.5 % of gdp .
until then , african heads of state have pledged to raise science and technology budgets by at least 1 % of gdp by 2025 .
a few countries – including kenya , rwanda , and senegal – are working to reach this funding threshold .
africa also benefits from generous research assistance and international support .
one of the largest donors and melinda gates foundation has invested more than $ 450 million in african science projects over the last decade .
these include a $ 3.06 million plan for crop yields and a $ 62.5 million improvement in health improvements .
these and other funding flows help african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , producing vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , increasing opportunities for scientific and technological education .
unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that can build on these gains .
in short , african science urgently needs new and more cooperative solutions .
african leaders have pooled their scientific resources .
in 2003 , the african union and africa ’ s new partnership for cooperation began to implement an inter-continental strategy “ to develop and use science and technology to transform africa ’ s socioeconomic transformation and integrate its integration into the world economy . ”
this is a grand goal , and it has produced early results .
in 2005 , africa ’ s r & d spending grew , and research output in many countries doubled .
since then , however , progress has stalled .
the recent conference in rwanda , hosted by the organization of rwanda and the organization of one of einstein , aims to help the agenda back on track .
but the summit is only part of the solution ; governments must also work to improve the quality of research , which they can begin to focus on three key areas .
first , african leaders must work with ceos , philanthropists , and donors who understand the long-term value of scientific investment .
innovation is expensive , requiring seed funds to help strengthen african science ’ s capacity .
second , african universities and institutions should align their research agendas with national and regional goals .
africa ’ s most pressing challenge , for example , is to feed a growing population , focusing on schools in agriculture research that should ensure that their work can help them .
third , countries should encourage entrepreneurship within research organizations .
one way to do that is to establish commercialization offices , and the commercialization office helps scientists ’ research to work .
as national scientists turn their ideas into business projects , they need help to deal with bureaucracy , which is particularly challenging in the area of research and development .
increasing african science ’ s power will require african leaders not only to pose acute questions at summits ; they must also allocate more funds to build new partnerships .
the high cost of african food monopolies
lagos – in may , global food prices rose 1.2 % , reaching the highest level since october 2017 .
this surge is having a huge impact on africa , and the share of household spending on food is soaring .
to ensure food security , governments must act quickly to reverse these trends , and a starting point is to reduce the producers ’ producers .
according to the world economic forum ’ s data , four of the top five countries in the world are in africa .
nigeria ’ s list is the highest , with household income in 2015 , in 2015 , on food , followed by kenya ( % % ) , cameroon ( 45.6 % ) , and algeria ( 4.8 % ) .
by comparison , consumer spending in the us is a global minimum ( 6.4 % ) , far below emerging economies like brazil ( 16 % ) and india ( 30 % ) .
one reason for this distortion is food prices relative to income .
as africa becomes increasingly urbanized , people are buying more imported and 或全 foods , which are more expensive than locally produced foods .
and in most countries , wages keep pace with inflation .
but the main reason is poor public policy : african governments have failed to rein in the power of agribusiness and big food manufacturers , and lack oversight of local agricultural competitiveness .
most commodity prices , in turn , are 节节上涨 .
the absence of antitrust law , together with inadequate consumer protection , has led to a market for large companies in many countries controlling salt , sugar , flour , milk , oil , and tea .
the impact of african cities is most acute , and the prices of 白米 , frozen chicken , bread , butter , eggs , and even even 碳酸 drinks are 24 % higher than the rest of the world .
these prices directly affect consumers ( via input costs for food production and service providers ) .
the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ( fao ) has long emphasized that food security and equity prices depend on the market .
the oecd countries frequently require the authorities to address the “ anti-competitive mergers , abuse of dominance , cartels and price fixing , vertical constraints , and practices ” issues of the oecd .
but , in many african countries , this advice has rarely been heeded .
to be sure , this is not new .
for example , between 1997 and 2004 , the fao launched 122 “ anti-competitive activities ” in 23 sub-saharan african countries , which included “ vertical monopolies ” from malawi ’ s sugar industry , price fixed price fixed in the kenya industry , and “ buyer cartels ” in zimbabwe ’ s cotton industry .
and , despite the wide attention that these cases have received , its fundamental problems remain undiminished .
according to the world bank , more than 70 % of african countries are ranked in the rankings of “ market-based competition ” in global protection .
the 27 african countries and five regions already have antitrust laws , but there is little enforcement .
other countries simply do not have antitrust rules , and even drafted work in a few countries .
south africa is a notable exception .
since 1998 , south africa ’ s competition law has banned any company by excluding other firms or seeking to manipulate price controls , or more than 45 % of the price .
the fine of 10 % of the fine is fine , and some of south africa ’ s corporate giants , such as Brands brands , Pioneer foods , and 森达美 Darby , have been penalized .
特姆 博纳科勒 , the chairman of south africa ’ s competition commission , noted last year that the government “ is determined to prevent the exploitation of consumers in cartels , ” particularly in the food sector .
other countries should follow south africa ’ s example .
in countries like nigeria and ghana , where reforms are needed most , the share of food spending is high and food security is highest .
fortunately , a growing number of people are beginning to recognize these challenges .
the general 巴巴 吞德 , director of the nigerian consumer protection committee , recently suggested that , “ there is a tragic absence of broad competition in a large and loyal market like nigeria .
unregulated markets in competition environments have become the ‘ legal tender of financial and social extortion . ”
by dealing with anti-competitive practices in these sectors , or by reforming regulatory regulations to prevent competition , they would reduce the cost of 主粮 , even by 10 % ( far below the average premium demanded by the global cartel ) , which will enable more than 270,000 people , 200,000 people , and 20,000 in the world .
this policy would save households in these countries more than $ 700 million per year ( in 2015 ) , with poor households far more benefiting than wealthy households .
ultimately , it is political leaders ’ responsibility to protect consumers from collusion and prices .
no doubt , the cycle needs to be achieved through innovation , but their success must not be at the cost of some next meal .
the cancer threat to africa ’ s future
chicago – one of the most urgent public-health challenges in africa today is the coverage of the lowest : cancer , the leading cause of death worldwide .
every year , roughly 650,000 africans are diagnosed with cancer , and more than 500,000 people die from this disease .
over the next five years , africa could have more than one million cancer deaths every year , and mortality rates will cause cancer to become the continent ’ s leading killer of killer diseases .
throughout sub-saharan africa , tremendous progress has been made in combating deadly infectious diseases .
in recent decades , international and local cooperation has succeeded in reducing malaria deaths in africa by 60 % , nearly eradicated polio , and extending the lives of millions of africans infected with hiv/aids .
unfortunately , there has been no similar progress in the fight against non-communicable diseases , including cancer .
today , cancer kills more people in developing countries than aids , malaria , and tuberculosis combined .
but , because africa receives only 5 % of global cancer prevention and control of funding , efforts to contain cancer have little to do with this epidemic .
just as the world has helped to help africa contain epidemics , a similar approach must be taken to contain the cancer crisis .
the survival of cancer patients requires many things , but there is a time when experts , laboratories , and replacements are the most basic .
but , in most parts of africa , cheap medicines , trained doctors , and nurses , which mean that patients rarely receive the care they need .
on average , african countries have fewer than one trained 病理学家 , meaning that most people can ’ t receive accurate diagnostic services during the cancer .
according to Olopade Olopade , the university of chicago , cancer diagnosis in africa is “ almost always fatal . ”
building health-care systems that can manage infectious diseases , while also providing quality cancer care , will require significant investment in time , money , and expertise .
fortunately , africa has a good start .
past programs – such as the prevention of hiv/aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , the us president ’ s emergency relief program , and the world bank ’ s east african public health lab – have greatly expanded the continent ’ s health-care infrastructure .
african countries are also strengthening pharmaceutical supply chains , improving health-care training , and improving the quality of diagnostic networks .
but africans still face no such threat alone .
my organization ’ s clinical pathology in the united states is thus working with other global health-care innovations to contain the spread of cancer crises in africa .
we have worked with the us cancer association ( acs ) and pharmaceutical pharmaceutical novartis to support cancer treatment and detection efforts in four countries , including ethiopia , rwanda , tanzania , and uganda .
the american cancer association also training african professionals how to proceed and chemotherapy , to complement the technical work mentioned above .
the program funded by novartis was viewed as a kind of 试点工作 to the rest of the region .
finally , my organization is advocating guiding principles for cancer treatment in national health care programs , and we believe that such provisions are essential to improving the effects of health outcomes .
these provisions , combined with the american cancer association , are combining the availability of cancer to expand access to cancer treatment .
when the world recognized infectious diseases such as hiv/aids , polio , and malaria , we have developed an action plan and a positive action plan .
today , a similar global effort must be made to ensure that every african who is diagnosed with cancer receives the treatment that africans need .
now , as then , cooperation between african governments , health-care providers , drug companies , and non-governmental organizations has shaped the success of cancer .
none of the earth ’ s places on cancer diagnosis is fraught with fear ; and , wherever the patient gets it , catastrophic consequences for recipients and their families are catastrophic .
but geography should never be a decisive factor in the fight against cancer .
cancer has been africa ’ s silent killer for too long , and the global health community is no longer quiet .
investing in africa ’ s educators
johannesburg – the improvement in education is a slow , arduous , long-term process , regardless of where it is , the strain of economic constraints has often enabled africa to continue investing in human capital .
african educators must find solutions that are faster , cheaper , and scalable .
but ad hoc solutions are often shortsighted , with key local leaders who are unable to engage in the keys to economic and social progress .
the grassroots voices are often ignored , and those voices often reflect firsthand the problems of their communities ’ communities .
this week , global leaders will meet at the g20 summit in hamburg , and the new G20 partnership will be the center .
but working to help africa ’ s 仁人志士 should focus on the core of aid and development – which means investing in local leadership .
sadly , in africa , cash-strapped aid organizations are often managed by westerners , not to manage the west ’ s 关系密切 africans .
i recently learned from a few entrepreneurs that african organizations , with western co-founder co-founder 创始人 , can raise more than twice the amount of funding that africans oversee .
this financial prejudice is everywhere , leading to permanent loss of local talent .
for anyone working to create better communities for children , pro-western prejudices deserve concern .
in addressing social problems – whether in education , poverty , or discrimination – those who are most committed to addressing it are always those who have first-hand experience with the problems that need to be addressed .
individual experience is the best catalyst for change , because it can support people ’ s long-term personal investment in a system that is rising inequality and injustice .
what would happen if the leaders of these systems were to grow up from the communities most need them ?
some organizations are already answering the question .
more than 12,000 people have applied to nigeria ’ s education program , a national organization , recruiting , and training young teachers , and then then to their schools .
the plan is a scholarships program that would select more than 60 nigerian graduates and professionals , not only to foster good teachers , but also to educate and commit to the next generation of social entrepreneurs who are committed to addressing inequality .
after two years of teaching promises that began in september , the leaders of these growth will join a global campaign that includes more than 55 more people , from more than 40 countries to a similar scholarships , including ghana ’ s education program , which has been cultivated for 30 .
we will become a “ collective leader , ” and we believe that it is the only way to ensure positive positive change .
another is that we have not invested in children .
in uganda , 70 % of children do not complete primary school .
basic education is based on our ability to analyze information , create ideas , and identify the world around them .
but , in too many african communities , we are not working to invest in these foundations .
across africa , enrollment rates are evident : 82 % of children in rich households can complete primary education , compared to 28 % in the poorest families .
if africa ’ s future will be determined or influenced by those who are most likely to be hurt by this challenge , programs like nigeria ’ s education program and ghana ’ s education program are crucial .
imagine that if the measures to distribute local recruitment to low-income schools were expanded , there will be a lot of pain .
imagine how many opportunities to address the challenges faced by children and families will be created , and it may be possible to cover hundreds of thousands of children with aspirations and to take critical thinking and address the world ’ s problems .
some argue that if graduation is missed , education is meaningless ; indeed , job creation in africa will be a major topic for the g-20 summit .
but , while investment in business development and job creation is vital to economic dynamism and growth , it is simply impossible if without educated labor .
a robust job market requires that there are enough skilled workers to fill existing jobs .
but in sub-saharan africa , only 58 % of children are able to graduate from primary school .
that is why g-20 leaders should focus on investing in the new african economic development strategy .
but , more important , they should ensure that resources are allocated to those who rely on local leadership and innovation .
the sdg 4-5 – to ensure equitable and inclusive education in 2030 – is achievable , but the solution must be “ grounded ” in an african population that is most eager for education .
empowering the other half of africa ’ s economy
johannesburg – the country ’ s founding president , nyerere nyerere , once said that “ unity ” can not be made in africa , but “ it can make africa and africa less susceptible to shame , humiliation . ”
but , two decades later , there is a fault line in africa that is gender .
to realize nyerere ’ s vision of africa as a strong and dignified continent , africa needs a new era of freedom to empower women in africa ’ s women .
mckinsey ’ s consultancy predicts that by 2040 , africa will have the world ’ s largest labor force , working age , but , in africa ’ s current population , more than 60 % of the population remains below $ 2 per day .
clearly , while many africans benefit from political emancipation – the legacy of nyerere ’ s generation – poverty remains a huge obstacle .
unleashing the employment potential of african women is the best way to overcome this barrier .
as it stands , african women remain tiny in key industries and management positions , owing to workplace discrimination and patriarchal dominance .
unless barriers to the formal economy are removed , women have options for achieving their potential , and african socioeconomic development will continue to be depressed .
but , while women are critical to africa ’ s progress , they are often regarded as second-class citizens .
as a result , women must advocate the right of their participation in decision-making , arguing that they participate in policies , programs , and strategies that affect their lives and the lives of africans in the future .
research shows that if more african women have access to jobs that men dominate , labor productivity will rise by as many as 25 % .
this is good news for the overall economy , which is good news for women , because it would open the doors of new social empowerment .
if women are able to enter the job market , active business or political decisions can change , patriarchal dynamics will change , and women ’ s social standing is in place .
in other words , allowing more women to enter the workplace would lead to emancipation – whether for men or women .
in the words of nyerere ’ s eloquent rhetoric , it was also true that the african women were the key to achieving our potential .
when we together become the creators of wealth , our economic contributions will not be recognized , and we will not be marginalized in our entrepreneurial efforts .
in the charlottesville trust trust , we worked with civil-society actors in africa , the private sector , and government , leading a woman ’ s economic liberation movement .
divided , they are weak , but if we take together , african women are capable of confronting and overcoming obstacles that can not be fully involved in their economies .
networks exist .
my organization ’ s approach to economic progress is to create and strengthen informal and official networks , through which women can improve their participation and visibility in key sectors .
as a result , we have launched the “ women ’ s push for africa ” – a voice that we are strengthening without winning enough representation , and establishing a concerted effort to bring women together to transform africa ’ s women .
women are pushing africa to adopt this week in dar es salaam , tanzania , where more than 250 women leaders from around africa attend .
the forum ’ s total theme is “ promoting social and economic transformation , ” focusing on three strategic objectives : promoting financial inclusion , increasing market access , and driving social change .
our goal is to create a common agenda through the forum , making us a comprehensive economic actor .
nyerere encouraged us to work together in africa for 20 years .
today , african women are affecting policies and practices that will bring economic and social liberation to their respective countries .
there is still a long way to go to africa .
but making women a full partner in africa ’ s economic future is to ensure that one of the best ways we can succeed .
capitalizing on africa ’ s youth dividend
toronto – in 2016 , south africa ’ s university students took part in the streets , a part of the campaign that “ must fall ” campaign , when “ the decolonization of the curriculum ” was one of the central preoccupations of the movement .
the movement is also a historical turning point in south africa , where young people are starting to demand high-quality education .
but the key question missing from the debate about tuition and curricula is that higher education has enabled young african youth to win power , driving the continent ’ s economic transformation ?
for africa , students are not “ right ” issues , but “ what ” questions are learned .
unfortunately , while access to education has improved significantly in recent decades , school curricula have not changed much more than the colonial era . in colonial times , secondary education was an elite privilege that was designed for a small minority of people .
education and vocational education ( tvet ) and training ( tvet ) are also lost .
today , these programs are outdated , learning methods that are not available to young people to accommodate the twenty-first-century employment market .
the problem is not just the traditional content of curricula , such as mathematics , science , and language , but also the lack of important “ soft ” skills , such as communication , teamwork , and problem-solving .
despite these skills , they can make young people resilient and lifelong learners .
there is a correlation between soft skills and improvements in school , work , and life outcomes .
but , until recently , training for soft skills remains in africa ’ s formal education system .
fortunately , things are changing .
across africa , secondary schools , secondary schools , and tvet systems are being transformed to equip africa ’ s young minds with the skills needed to make the transition to workers and participation more likely .
in particular , these changes imply more opportunities for young people to enter the job market when preparing to enter the job market .
but to succeed , young people must have the skills and education that modern economies require .
in the mastercard foundation , i oversee education and learning programs , and we have developed a blueprint – called the mass skills – to help african educators achieve their youth ’ economic potential more effectively .
now , one of the most successful projects that africa is implementing is the livelihood 计划 of the us international development agency ( edc ) , which is developed by boston ’ s education center .
akazi kanoze highlights how a small program can lead to large-scale education reform by emphasizing local employers that provide access to entry-level jobs , internships , and apprenticeships .
its focus on personal development , 人际沟通 , and leadership training ensured that students are fully prepared to enter the labor market .
rwanda ’ s ministry of education is poised to integrate the program ’ s drugs into national TVWT projects .
the government in rwanda recently incorporated akazi kanoze ’ s approach to the national 课程体系 initiative to enable secondary and tvet students to have the soft skills needed to succeed .
the 2018 academic year will also reflect a new 基于 curriculum .
since 2009 , akazi kanoze training has trained more than 13,000 young people , with 65 % of the initial training participants having found jobs after the graduation of the first six months .
based on the success of integrating soft skills into the curriculum in rwanda , the mastercard foundation and edc will launch a similar plan later this year .
examples of the massive skills study highlight six components of successful training programs .
they include a favorable policy environment ( supported by the government ’ s support for the independence of the country and set a clear goal for reforming the education sector ) , the broad participation of stakeholders , and the ability to measure the effects of change on youth employment and entrepreneurship .
change is not without challenges .
adapting models for skills training in africa will take time to adjust to african systems of education .
ensuring that intensive training patterns reach all young people , including those who are no longer in school , will be difficult .
as rwanda ’ s experience shows , curriculum redesign requires close cooperation with education and labor authorities , as well as government officials , teachers , and schools .
new 课程内容 also requires developing new teaching and learning materials .
achieving scale will also require a radically different approach to training teachers ’ current approaches to training teachers .
training must go beyond traditional , one-off approaches , and continuing to provide teacher support .
new 教学法 also requires monitoring and practice , especially in early stages .
the old “ cascade ” model of teacher training has been completely ineffective .
with the help of the international community , african governments can help students shift from school to jobs by emphasizing the importance of soft skills .
if so , these changes would ensure that young people drive africa ’ s future prosperity .
africans deserve a forward-looking education system , not one that is stuck in the past .
the country ’ s young students have demonstrated that only this will enable young africans to meet their lives last year .
the big bond in africa
lagos – the countries of sub-saharan africa have reached a critical juncture .
with the collapse of commodity prices and the slowdown in china , the region ’ s growth rate fell to 3.4 % in 2015 – nearly 50 % below the previous 15 years .
sustained economic growth is vital to sustain progress on reducing poverty , infant mortality , disease , and malnutrition .
maintaining economic growth is the only way to create enough good jobs for ballooning young populations – the world ’ s youngest population growth rate .
as the german minister of development general , general stuart mill , pointed out at a recent press conference , “ if young people in africa fail to find jobs and future in their country , millions of people , not tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands , will find out to be in europe . ”
one way to maintain growth , create jobs , is to project and implement large-scale investment in infrastructure across africa .
public infrastructure is particularly important .
they include highways , bridges , and railways , connecting landlocked farmers to african urban consumers and the external market ; including massive transport and internet infrastructure , including mass transportation and internet access , which would include private financing plants and electricity grids .
many of sub-saharan africa ’ s small economies also need to connect with large regional projects .
this is the only way to create economies of scale , with the economy improving the potential for agricultural and industrial exports in africa , as well as the need to reduce domestic prices for food and manufactured goods .
while african governments are spending on their own public infrastructure spending , they still need external financing , especially for regional projects that are rarely top of national governments .
but the traditional generous donors , including the us and europe , are now prepared to curtail aid by political and economic constraints .
but perhaps there is a way to help restore growth in africa , and the west ’ s leaders and their constituents accepted .
we call it “ big bonds ” – using foreign aid funds as international capital markets to raise financing for large-scale infrastructure investment .
specifically , donors can borrow in capital markets , according to future aid flows .
thus , they can use the current low interest rates to raise revenue .
the 30-year us treasury interest rate is about 3 % , and donors need only about $ 5 billion , which could raise $ 100 billion .
this money could come from a total of 3.5 billion official development assistance ( oda , roughly $ 50 billion ) per year .
donors can put interest costs on african countries to reduce their own fiscal burdens .
for african countries , conditions are better than the conditions provided by eurobonds .
indeed , while this may sound risky , passing on the cost of interest to recipient countries could actually strengthen their debt sustainability .
according to a study by the african development bank ’ s policy innovation lab , a 3 % interest rate would be lower than the marginal cost of commercial lending in some african countries over the last five years .
moreover , long maturities and grace periods relative to market finance will ease pressure on foreign-exchange reserves .
frontloading aid in this form is not new .
in the early 2000s , vaccines to finance this approach saved millions of lives in the developing world .
under management of the african development bank , the largest bond resources are available to finance large regional infrastructure projects that can not be ignored for long , such as connecting tanzania , rwanda , and burundi , and from nigeria to côte d ’ ivoire .
such projects can also work with private investors to finance them .
moreover , large bonds help to revive the relationship between donors and african countries .
moreover , because it supports investments that would yield important benefits at the national level , it could be an incentive for african countries to implement reforms that increase their absorptive capacity – such as the choice and implementation of public infrastructure investment .
the big bond approach represents a much-needed escalation of the oda framework – one that supports higher and more sustainable growth in recipient countries , while reducing the burden of donor countries .
now that aid is under political pressure , it may be a bold approach to maximizing efficiency in the world .
paris – in much of africa , transition from fossil fuels to cleaner forms of energy is viewed as an environmental imperative .
with fossil fuels accounting for most of the world ’ s energy – up to 70 % – africa ’ s situation is truly ecological .
but , economically , africa desperately needs energy transition .
africa ’ s oil subsidies are around $ 50 billion per year , amounting to about 1.5 % of gdp .
that money is enough to provide solar power to 300 million people .
if africa can rebalance its energy mix , phasing out hydrocarbons gradually , these subsidies will be available to other uses , producing environmental and economic benefits .
today , neither oil exporters nor importers are immune to shocks .
in 2015 , for example , oil prices fell rapidly , and oil spending in africa declined , while exporters suffered economically .
when the results rebounded , the relationship is the opposite , with energy exporters rising , while importing countries are struggling to sustain consumption .
this is a needless cycle .
integrating cleaner power into national energy systems would not only raise local capacity ; it would also unleash more hydrocarbons for exports .
the resulting revenue can be invested in new green power .
this transformation will require cooperation by the oil sector , which is likely to boost social progress .
the electrification of some of the greatest gains is the electrification of some of these areas , which , in the current distribution system , can be said to be alive .
today , only 30 % of africa has reliable electricity .
but an estimated ten terawatts , producing solar capacity in africa , could expand significantly .
indeed , according to some estimates , solar power generation can increase 15 gigawatts by 2030 .
fossil fuels can not be phased out anytime soon , but if solar energy ’ s share in the energy mix increased significantly , the huge economic advantages that africa will bring , especially in agriculture , are the most important economic sectors .
the electrification of agricultural areas can facilitate the storage and transport of crops , improve food security , and boost farmers ’ income capacity .
in the process of rebalancing the energy mix , africa has an important advantage relative to the advanced economies : africa is a clean slate .
the relatively small legacy of history is a major reason why green power has become africa ’ s best energy option .
while each country must balance its own energy needs , relying on renewable sources ( especially solar power ) , it is the most cost-effective strategy for promoting rapid economic development across africa .
the potential for this potential is the few photovoltaic power plants that are already operating in africa .
senegal ’ s Senergy solar power plant , for example , sells electricity for the electricity grid in senegal by 50 % .
similar solar solutions are being applied to telecommunications towers in africa .
the best way to accelerate the transition from hydrocarbons to greener energy is to use some of the country ’ s oil subsidies to renewables .
this would create stronger incentives to reduce fossil-fuel consumption while encouraging investment and growth in green-energy production .
moreover , for rural africa , such policies would help to lift communities out of darkness and build essential infrastructure needed to build other economic growth .
but while renewables are the key to africa ’ s long-term prosperity , africa ’ s transition to clean power should not be instantly rejected , either .
africa needs the oil industry ’ s experience to complete its energy transformation .
and , because fossil fuels remain part of africa ’ s energy mix , the oil industry must be encouraged to move toward cleaner .
this sounds like an impossible alliance .
but , as policymakers across the continent seek to ensure adequate supply of clean energy to ensure rapid , inclusive economic growth , and environmental sustainability , they may find that there is no alternative .
cooperation between new and new energy industries may be the only engine that can drive africa forward .
africa ’ s vaccination test
boston – in february in addis ababa , african health ministers signed a popular declaration that promises to treat immunization as the centerpiece of efforts to save african children from death and disease .
fulfilling this promise will not be easy .
immunization is not only a health issue , but also an economic challenge .
the case for vaccination is strong .
globally , some 2-3 million children die each year from vaccine-preventable and 600,000 adult deaths .
moreover , immunization is considered to be the most cost-effective public-health interventions for reducing child disease , death , and disability .
a recent study estimates that every dollar spent on vaccination could save $ 16 in preventive prevention costs .
given the importance of individuals to longer lives and healthier lives , the net return on investment in immunization is at 44 times higher than the cost .
and net returns exceed the cost of all vaccines .
progress has been made .
in 2014 , 86 % of children were immunized against diphtheria , tetanus , and pertussis , compared to less than 5 % in 1974 .
there is also a major breakthrough in the number and types of available vaccines .
but , globally , about 18.7 million infants still do not have routine immunization .
the problem , of course , is access .
detailed analysis of immunization in africa shows that there are significant differences between countries and countries .
more than 60 % of infants live in the ten countries : the drc ( drc ) , ethiopia , india , indonesia , iraq , nigeria , nigeria , pakistan , the philippines , uganda , and south africa .
routine immunization coverage in africa remains remarkably low ; indeed , it has remained stagnant in the last three years , owing to weak health systems and inadequate resources .
as a result , one in five children in africa still lack access to life-saving vaccines .
in 2014 , some 42 % of the world ’ s measles deaths occurred in africa .
most of africa ’ s poor children live in nigeria , ethiopia , the drc , south africa , ethiopia , and guinea .
poor people , rural populations , and low levels of education comprise much of the country ’ s lack of immunization coverage .
clearly , money is the primary factor shaping immunization outcomes .
beyond funding constraints , weak and inefficient health systems ( especially in rural areas ) , african countries face the challenge of becoming more expensive new vaccines .
but médecins sans frontières estimates that the introduction of new vaccines caused most african countries to vaccinate a child in 2014 , and 68 times higher than in 2001 .
another study showed that the total cost of less than one dollar in 2001 was less than $ 1 .
in 2014 , the number of vaccines recommended by the who increased to 11 – and cost about $ 21 per boys , about $ 35 for girls .
today , the additional costs of fighting vaccines – roughly $ 25 per child – have cost a child with a total of $ 50-60 per child .
the same study showed that , in many low- and middle-income countries , immunization budgets are currently inadequate to sustain vaccination programs , not to mention the new expensive vaccines .
in some countries , health ministers in addis ababa argued that high vaccine prices force poor governments to make difficult choices about what deadly diseases they need to prevent .
for some countries , the situation is likely to worsen further , and gavi , the international organization for the massive global expansion that supports new vaccines , has gradually withdrawn support from countries that believe that they have “ graduated ” from aid .
many countries that lost the prices of gavi may not be able to take the new vaccine .
in response to this challenge , african political leaders have pledged to invest in developing africa ’ s capacity to develop and produce their own vaccines .
this long-term strategy requires coordinated regional investment planning , market development , and stronger regulatory capabilities .
in the short and medium term , african countries would best look to collective bargaining power to secure better contracts for the required vaccines .
africa can and should do more to improve vaccines , but the global community also has a responsibility to work together to reduce the cost of vaccines .
the recent announcement of lower prices for pneumococcal vaccines is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough .
without collective action , equality , equality , and continued access to africa will remain a major problem – and children ’ s lives will continue to lose .
africa ’ s avoidable aids crisis
new york – the united states is more than a year old .
recently , i saw a great life in uganda ’ s largest aids hospital , a group of young people , singer , 鼓手 , and 舞者 , from eight to 28 .
“ live beautiful people in this land , ” they sang , 唱道 , and sang of them ?
“ smiles , they dance , and so harmony . ”
“ africa is africa . ”
oh , africa . ”
and , indeed , these young people ’ smiles and dance are harmony not only in harmony , but also with an existential passion that allows them to make a lot of fortune and make us all happy .
listening , it is hard to imagine that deaths from them – and , without the clinic , they may be dead .
these splendid performers are living with hiv .
some arrived at the clinic ’ s time .
others are not symptoms , but they are positive .
they have parents , sisters , brothers , and sisters .
they survive , because the joint clinical research center in kampala and the drugs it provides are available .
uganda is the epicenter of the aids epidemic , the first place where aids is first hit , and the highest incidence of hiv ( as in africa ) .
a decade ago , less than 10,000 people had access to antiretroviral drugs for a new generation of aids drugs .
today , that figure is about 200,000 , thanks to generous support from the united states ( by its pepfar program ) and the geneva global fund .
similar developments are visible elsewhere .
botswana , for its part , has invested heavily in universal health care , and is moving toward eradicating the fight against hiv – a goal that has already been achieved in developed countries , but in africa , still 400,000 babies are born each year .
the number of people living with the largest number of people living with the largest number of hiv has spent nearly $ 1 billion last year on aids counseling and inspection .
but a new threat is already emerging , making these advances impossible .
peter mugyenyi , director of the joint clinical research center , has told me that part of the problem is the weight of the digital population .
in uganda , only half of hiv-infected people have been treated .
meanwhile , health-care funds are drying up .
as a global recession , some international donors have warned of financial support .
countries such as malawi , zimbabwe , kenya , and uganda are demanding assistance for emergency medicines .
in kampala , dr. mugyenyi has begun integrating new 求医者 lists into waiting lists .
as many as seven million africans who receive hiv treatment have failed to receive treatment .
and around 10 million are .
making matters worse , donors are now turning to other diseases , because they feel that they can save more people with less money .
when it comes to scaling up the aids epidemic now , we are discouraging ourselves .
in the fight against aids , the international community is handing out the low-hanging fruit .
this is deeply troubling , and worries about the impressive gains of the past decade will be lost .
“ we are sitting on a time bomb , ” dr. mugyenyi told me .
every day , he faced the conscience of conscience .
how do you choose to treat a young girl and give up her brother ?
how do you choose pregnant mothers who sit together with their children and begging for help ?
there is no doubt that we can do more .
in kampala , i promised my young friends that i would do everything i can .
recently , the united nations launched a plan to launch a significant effort to strengthen maternal and maternal health , including aids prevention .
at the international aids conference in vienna in july , i wanted the international community to support a new generation of hiv treatment programs for unaids – a program that is lower , more efficient , and accessible to everyone .
as chairman of the global fund ’ s summit this year , i urged all donors to take the support that countries like uganda need , and to make tough choices about the front lines of dr. mugyenyi and other aids wars .
when i left uganda , those contradictions remain in my heart .
the truth is so strong that it is possible to feel that it can be felt .
they contribute to both countries and households .
we need to live , and we need to live
and in africa .
yes , times are hard .
that is why we need to be freer and sympathetic .
africa ’ s diaspora diaspora
dakar – in the wake of the global financial crisis , africa ’ s people are all too familiar and harrowing , with the suffering of people in africa – poverty , malnutrition , civil strife , and much worse .
in almost every place , the media are presenting this academic conclusion with a vivid narrative of brutality and despair in places like guinea and the democratic republic of congo .
but the story is another facet , and the media ’ s coverage is woefully inadequate .
africa , which has been locked out of international capital markets over the last 50 years , largely eschewed financial instability and economic decline .
the continent ’ s economic growth has slowed , but not in a massive economic downturn .
indeed , according to mckinsey & company , africa is the third largest contributor to the world economy ’ s growth in 2009 , after china and india .
moreover , several african countries have been rating by credit agencies , which means that the global financial center for credit agencies has been open to these countries .
in some cases , the ratings of african countries have exceeded turkey or argentina , or at least as much .
stock exchanges have been established across the continent .
moreover , countries such as china , india , and brazil have established platforms to expand exports and create a model of cooperation based not on “ aid , ” but on trade , investment , and technology transfer .
trade in central africa alone grew from $ 10 billion in 2000 to $ 1070 billion in 2008 , and billions of dollars in oil extraction , mining , transportation , electricity generation , electricity transmission , telecommunications , and other infrastructure .
these achievements have improved african countries ’ macroeconomic performance .
inflation fell by half in the 1990 ’ s , and foreign-exchange reserves were 30 % growth .
public finances accounted for a surplus of GDP2.8% surpluses in 2008 , up from 1.4 % in 2000-2010 .
saving rates are between 10 % and 20 % , and foreign debt has fallen from 110 % of gdp in 2005 to 21 % of gdp in 2008 .
since 2000 , sub-saharan african countries have achieved an economic growth of 5-7 % .
several factors contributed to this upturn .
emerging-market demand has pushed up commodity prices .
urbanization has created a dynamic informal sector .
improved governance , increased food production , increased trade in the region , debt cancellation , more appropriate use of official development assistance ( oda ) , and a thriving telecommunications and housing market would also help to achieve economic growth .
but the most important contributing factor in economic recovery is remittances from africans .
a study by the international agricultural development foundation , launched in rome , shows that more than three million people living outside their countries of origin are contributing more than $ 40 billion in remittances to their families and communities .
according to the world bank , remittances from sub-saharan african countries grew from $ 31 billion in 1995 to $ 18.5 billion in 2007 , compared to about 9 % of gdp between 9 % and 24 % in official development assistance .
here , three different approaches exist in africa .
the english state would liberalize the capital market by encouraging competition , easing restrictions on non-bank operators , providing financial incentives , encouraging technical and financial innovation , and facilitating cooperation between market participants .
this approach has been adopted in italy , which helps reduce costs and increase the total number of beneficiaries .
the spanish state is attracting migrants from participating banking , by offering a variety of banking services in the country ’ s origin and host countries , which have a special relationship with the interests of migrants and the interests of migrants .
this approach has been widely adopted by morocco and the 葡萄牙语 countries , and , most representative of the spanish bank santander and its moroccan counterpart , 摩洛哥 瓦法 .
finally , two types of monopoly forms the basis of the french approach .
one is western union ’ s monopoly status , which controls the number of formal transfer payments to 16 % of the country ’ s population .
western union has paid up to 25 % of these countries ’ remittances , much higher than the 5 % average global standard , and requires the franc zone countries to sign their money in order to prevent 外汇局 , post offices , and micro-finance institutions .
the second monopoly of france lies in banking institutions .
france ’ s two central banks in the franc zone have veto power , while the two french commercial banks – the french bank bnp paribas and société générale – have the right to lend to their lending plans , demanding that lending programs meet the needs of short-term trade and the top .
other banks , too , have adopted a similar strategy , severely limiting access to financial services for households and businesses .
although remittances from italy , spain , and the united states account for more than a day , the largest amount of meaning still comes from france .
as a result , an institution that is able to convert migrant remittances into productive investments is needed to create jobs and wealth , thereby enabling more people to benefit from banking services , mortgages , insurance products , pension plans , and technical assistance .
the official data of 2009 may well indicate that the total number of migrant remittances has fallen sharply , owing to the severe erosion of the global recession .
in this context , as the global economy recovers , african countries are vital to establish financial systems that can effectively use remittances , and many african countries are laying the groundwork for sustainable development .
africa ’ s dictator-diplomat
brussels – the recent death of ethiopian prime minister meles zenawi in brussels has finally come to light .
ethiopia ’ s government has been denying rumors that he had serious liver cancer .
now , as the worst-case news finally confirms , ethiopia and the entire east africa will need to learn how to live without the stability of the great authoritarian diplomat .
meles has no doubt .
ethiopia has been a remarkable transition since 1991 , when the country ’ s ethnic minorities , who have been living in northern ethiopia , overthrew a 悠闲 communist military junta led by robert mugabe ( now under mugabe ’ s zimbabwe under mugabe ) .
meles was originally the first president of the 军政府 era , which began as ethiopia ’ s prime minister until 1995 , when he was led by an annual gdp growth rate of 7.7 % .
strong economic performance is surprising , because his party embraced interventionist policy models , but meles himself has been a veritable pragmatist in attracting investment ( mainly from china ) .
meles ’ s political background is the leader of the 解放阵线 people ’ s liberation front .
but , with the end of the cold war , he left the 马列主义 doctrine behind .
under his administration , infant mortality has dropped by 40 % ; the ethiopian economy has diversified , with new industries such as automobiles , restaurants , and 花卉 ; and a series of major infrastructure projects , including africa ’ s largest hydroelectric dams , have been built on his laurels .
ethiopia has been synonymous with hunger and drought , but now it has become one of africa ’ s largest economies – and is not the case in gold and oil .
perhaps more important than meles ’ s domestic achievement is his diplomatic record .
he is an indispensable ally for the west , and ethiopia ’ s military operation in neighboring somalia in 2006 was the culmination of this role .
meanwhile , meles has attracted china , as investors , as investors as a hedge against their human-rights record .
moreover , he has been subject to controversy but the hand of friendship extended to the breakaway region of somaliland , which is far from a fashion .
meles will be remembered as the people of 兰 , because he plans to build a gas pipeline from the 加登 to the coast of somaliland .
more important , meles has made addis ababa the headquarters of the african union , and the city became a continent that can realistically discuss africa ’ s most serious problems .
meles himself has been working on the diplomatic front , especially on climate change , and he has lately been active in mediating border and natural-resource disputes between sudan and the newly independent south sudan .
he will be remembered as a result of the painful acceptance of eritrea in 1993 rather than prolonging the civil war , and he will be remembered as a deal with egypt to use the blue nile waters .
a great stain on meles ’ s record is a great stain on dissent .
to be sure , his human-rights record is far better than the junta .
for example , he allowed private publishers to operate , and in 2000 he became the first ethiopian leader to preside over multi-party parliamentary elections .
moreover , compared to neighboring eritrea , under 阿费 沃尔基 , eritrea and omar ’ s sudan , his regime is absolutely anything but a perpetrator of the region .
nor is there much evidence of personal enrichment and widespread corruption .
nonetheless , after more than 30 political parties engaged in more than 30 political parties in 2005 , meles openly resented democratic pluralism and free speech , and jailed several journalists in recent years .
at the same time , he has taken an increasingly strict central control of his country ’ s ethnically and linguistically diverse countries .
despite the country ’ s “ ethnic federalism , ” it is soon that meles has quickly abandoned this constitutional article if the threat of secession – for example , in 奥罗 and the 加登 – is quickly abandoned .
although he strengthened religious freedom and the peaceful coexistence of muslims and christians , the human-rights situation in ethiopia remains poor .
for example , organizations such as freedom house and human rights watch report that the group has suffered widespread official repression .
but meles is not an alternative – the continent ’ s leaders , his 智商 ( he used to be studying , 辍学 英语 , 自学 , and 熟练掌握 in the european university ) , and his political power has been unmatched , with no obvious successor to him .
in the horn of africa , no one can secure the stability of the region , as he did .
zenawi , meles ’ s foreign minister , will take over ethiopia ’ s government .
but the west is worried about the emergence of a power vacuum or in a country with high geopolitical significance , while neighboring somalia is approaching the transition to a new parliament and elected government .
meles ’ s legacy has left him behind a powerful political legacy .
he will be remembered as an african leader with significant historical influence : visionary , despotic , and indispensable .
africa ’ s unsustainable economy
dakar – the world ’ s economic downturn and financial-market tremors have strained national budgets in africa .
in addition to ghana and a few other countries , the most african countries in 2009 have deteriorated .
but , thanks to prudent management of public finances for public finances prior to previous periods of robust growth , a substantial number of african countries have been in the midst of crises in the past .
in 2009 , africa ’ s total gdp growth averaged 1.6 % , compared to 5.7 % from 2002 to 2008 , but still growth .
and , despite the serious challenges facing the financial crisis , some african countries continue to advance long-term reforms that improve the environment for business and investment .
current international trade and global industrial production are gradually improving , and sub-saharan africa ’ s sub-saharan african countries seem to grow stronger as demand for oil and other minerals rebounded and prices rebound .
but the continent ’ s most intractable structural imbalance is the two-tier nature of its economic and financial structure .
frankly , two africa is rising : an african economy that is modern , and is based on cash .
in african countries , almost every government will be able to modernize the economy as the bedrock of prosperity and its effectiveness in power efficiency , which many countries boast of their own financial infrastructure , underpinned by a set of laws , regulations , accounting , accounting , payments , payments , and settlement systems .
national payment systems have introduced a series of electronic payment products and services .
a 极高 system of interbank money is conducted in real time to settle the credit risks , risk credit between institutional participants , and accelerate the implementation of monetary policy .
the system provides the tools for banks to implement regulatory positions , thereby encouraging them to make investment decisions that would meet cost-benefit principles .
so far , only a few registered financial institutions , such as commercial banks in the west , have access to such facilities .
non-bank financial institutions , such as 外汇局 , post post offices , and microcredit institutions , have not entered even financially sound , sustainable development capacity .
the exclusive agreement that banks and remittance companies , such as the western union and western union , signed with most african countries exacerbates the country ’ s national payment system , as well as the effects of modern economic services .
such agreements exclude non-bank institutions from the lucrative market for migrant remittances in africa , which has been an important engine of economic growth in africa .
but rapid urbanization across africa has created a dynamic informal sector that is unrelated to modern economies .
while african officials are marginalized , this cash-based economy remains a major contributor to the continent ’ s productive productivity .
this sector employs more than 90 % of the labor and 75 % of the retailers .
but , despite the critical economic role that the informal sector plays , it still lacks access to traditional bank loans .
micro-finance institutions provide the only credit lines open to informal operators .
a collective guarantee loan is the 惯用 business model , which translates into a network of networks and support mechanisms that mitigate credit risk and encourage precautionary discipline .
management of high-quality microfinance institutions ’ credit repayments is at around 95 % , and all the studies involved show that women are not just the most active entrepreneurs of the informal economy , but also their promises .
african countries must now recognize that modernizing the informal sector and integrating the modern economy into an important development tool can be an important development tool .
nigeria has refused to obtain exclusive agreements with western union and other businesses , and the country ’ s newly consolidated banking sector has been progressing rapidly in the region .
rwanda has already adopted regulations that eliminate exclusive agreements , opening doors to microfinance institutions , and join them in the ranks of service providers .
south africa ’ s reserve bank has created a special platform for microfinance and non-banks within the country ’ s national payment system .
malawi ’ s national payment system is directly open to non-bank participants , including third-party service providers .
allowing micro-finance institutions to use national and regional payments systems and electronic retail facilities will help to meet the needs of the retail and business sectors .
this would also help the poor to use financial services , thereby reducing the proportion of the population that does not use it .
all of this will always promote the development and integration of national financial systems and intra-regional trade .
such developments are welcome , because a large proportion of intra-regional trade comes from informal operators and small and medium-size enterprises that do not have access to banking systems .
moreover , economic integration and increased regional trade are the best entry points for all countries in global markets .
when it comes to analyzing africa ’ s problems , people are accustomed to 历数 the continent ’ s traumatic past .
but the pains of africa ’ s colonial era to spend huge sums on the country ’ s most advanced settlements , and then ban their own citizens from exploiting them , seem to be beyond people ’ s imagination .
the economic corollary is that prosperity can come only from an economically functioning economy .
africa ’ s hard landing
lagos – in the developed world , there is no infrastructure service that is more widely accessible and more widely understood .
for consumers in the industrialized world , unchecked electricity supply is a no-brainer .
but this is not the case in africa , where a few parts of the world are the world ’ s electricity , with only 20 % of the population supplying electricity .
according to the international monetary fund ’ s recent economic outlook for sub-saharan africa , only two-thirds of the region ’ s countries were experiencing extreme energy crises in 2007 , and have shown a persistent energy boom .
there is no shortage of hydropower plants in africa .
many of these plants , however , are unable to keep up with rapid population growth and the resulting increase in demand .
moreover , these power plants are affected by frequent drought , which reduces electricity production dramatically , making many power plants a 点缀 .
growing populations in countries like nigeria and ghana mean more water use for electricity generation .
agricultural activity has been expanding rapidly , with higher demand for water across the continent .
other resources , such as fuel , diesel , light crude , solar , and gas , can also be used for electricity generation , but their costs are too high to supply .
these factors make it possible to use coal as an alternative source of cheap power in africa .
coal has historically played a key role in the world ’ s energy resources , and there are several important advantages to other fossil fuels .
for starters , the availability of proven coal reserves worldwide is roughly 850 billion tons .
africa has roughly 500 billion tons .
coal is more widely distributed than any other fossil fuel .
since 1980 , global energy demand has increased by more than 50 % , and is expected to increase by 1.6 % between now and 2030 .
more than 70 % of this new demand will come from developing countries , which are projected to account for about 80 % of total energy demand at the end of this period .
coal is the world ’ s fastest-growing fossil fuel , with annual production increasing by 6.4 % since 2004 .
in some important energy countries , coal has become a source of power .
strategically important developing countries such as china and india will be a major country in future coal generation .
in 2006 alone , china added roughly a million megawatts of coal production , and this trend is expected to continue with china ’ s efforts to meet its huge energy needs .
even in many advanced countries , coal still accounts for a large share of electricity generation .
more than half of america ’ s electricity supply comes from coal-fired power plants .
denmark has some of the world ’ s most efficient coal-fired power plants , and its coal generation accounts for 半壁河山 .
the same is true of germany , which has some of europe ’ s most efficient coal plants .
poland uses coal for 98 % of electricity production , while south africa is about half .
this is why , in this context , especially given that modern technology can help clean up in clean fashion , it is difficult to expect developing countries to develop their abundant 煤炭资源 to provide electricity to their own development .
with coal reserves , gas prices are volatile and gas prices are volatile , and long-term trends are uncertain .
by comparison , coal prices are more stable and likely for a long time .
beyond electricity generation , coal is also widely used for several other industries .
it is a key component of steel and cement production .
moreover , africa ’ s growing use of timber is causing rapid deforestation in many countries .
the potential demand for 煤饼 is huge , replacing wood for cooking , home , and industrial heating .
as a result , the demand outlook for the coal industry has been expected to create huge investment opportunities .
it is clear that the use of coal as a energy source would have environmental degradation , and it can not be ignored .
despite massive storage , coal remains a finite resource .
it is therefore essential to extract coal more efficiently and take care of the environmental impact .
fortunately , today ’ s by-products of the use of coal and coal is more concerned .
with acid rain and other public health hazards linked to coal combustion , more technologies are emerging to reduce harmful emissions from power plants .
in the last few years , it has been driven by a growing cleaner , more efficient coal-fired power plant , and , especially in advanced countries , the technology is disappearing .
developing countries lag behind this process , but , as global warming threatens , the pressure to adopt policy policies is now increasing .
africa ’ s resource-rich countries must use their abundant natural resources .
they must use coal to advance economic development .
today , african countries must use all available resources to escape poverty , or they will lose .
africa ’ s immunity
accra – a growing number of americans lose their jobs .
britain nationalized banks .
once high-flying small economies like ireland , hungary , and iceland collapsed .
even a vibrant china and india are experiencing slower growth , and ambitions are repressed and wishful thinking is broken .
but , in sub-saharan africa , the impact of the global financial crisis is almost absent , though the crisis is destroying the capitalist world .
in fashionable african cities , residential housing remains stratospheric .
the typical western-style house of kampala and accra , for example , is now worth twice as much as a house in 克里夫兰 , or in the heart of the american heartland .
from madrid to dublin , from miami to los angeles , home prices fall , and african house prices are near or at the highest level .
at the same time , african banks are rock-solid compared to the us and europe ’ s european banks .
when international bankers fail to go bankrupt because of a large volume of non-performing loans , african bankers insisted on old-fashioned approaches to earning profits : the interest paid on depositors , while receiving large spreads by buying government debt , would yield a return to health stabilization .
and the massive debt that the us and some european countries face , even deficit spending – which has long been africa ’ s scourge – seems entirely trivial .
nonetheless , there is a credible reason to believe that africa and its people will swallow the consequences of the global crisis , just a matter of time .
from ghana to kenya , the difficulties facing infrastructure projects in infrastructure projects are increasing .
foreign investment in sub-saharan africa has peaked in recent years , but these investments are withdrawing .
india , india , europe , and the us export raw materials are a key factor in the recent surge in africa ’ s economy , but that exports could suffer , because the global downturn means that every region will reduce consumption .
all of these factors suggest that africa may be financially insolvent .
popular equity investment , such as shares in safaricom , has already traded at a low rate .
if real estate prices fall sharply , a chain reaction will occur , and large investors are also struggling , and for some time in many ordinary africans , too .
even assuming that real-estate prices are stable , the global crisis is bound to lead to fewer remittances to those who work in europe , where the us , the us , canada , australia , and the middle east are in the middle east .
remittances have been believed to fall , which is understandable : economic activity is slowing , and that it will hurt migrants who move to rich countries .
the length and depth of the economic downturn , based on the length and depth of the economic downturn , would be sharply reduced .
as the number of africans working in rich countries shrinks , it will naturally lead to the transfer of money in african countries .
but reducing remittances is a 正反两面 .
remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa .
a ugandan doctor working in norway , for example , cares little about the price of a beer in kampala .
compared to a local doctor , he is willing and able to pay more for services – and , of course , a home in uganda .
fewer remittances flowing into uganda mean fewer economic activity , or lower prices .
the financial collapse of the global financial meltdown is not controlled , but risk becoming a new generation of more lethal collapses . a new round of collapse will not destroy the virtual economy of the us trading business and 经纪 , but also the real economy of goods and services .
president barack obama ’ s current style is like that of the latter scenario , and he bet that massive government spending will support the real economy .
if his policy succeeds , the chances that africa will remain intact will grow .
even if obama fails , however , africa should escape the worst of the global crisis , and for good reason .
good reason is for africa ’ s self-reliance , and scholars and policymakers are increasingly aware of the region ’ s trade , especially in africa , where the region ’ s urban-rural trade will eventually yield significant benefits .
another factor in africa ’ s favor is that private companies and consumers rarely rely on borrowed money .
people tend to pay cash to pay goods and services , wherever they are .
in the united states , loans to buy cars ( those who are now damned ) are the main factor behind the financial crisis .
and only a tiny minority in africa borrows to buy these things .
in the past , africa ’ s cash-based economy has impeded development .
after all , by allowing people to spend more than they can , borrowed money can fuel the economy .
but today , africa ’ s pay-as-you-go practices are a powerful guarantee against financial contagion .
as africa ’ s paradoxical economic situation is observed , another approach is to acknowledge that the region ’ s history has been marginalized by the global financial system , and that , at the time of the world ’ s richest countries , it has become a surprise .
lagos – the rise of africa is dangerous .
after years of annual economic growth , global uncertainty , low commodity prices , and unfavorable external conditions threaten to undermine decades of much-needed progress .
ensuring the wealth and wellbeing of africa ’ s residents will not be easy ; but policymakers can do much to help africa to return to an upward trajectory .
first and foremost , policymakers must ensure that the funding needed to pursue sustainable development in an uncertain global environment is uncertain .
the world bank estimates that africa needs at least $ 93 billion per year in infrastructure funding alone .
the cost of climate-friendly sustainable infrastructure is higher .
but , as long as global growth continues to slow , africans can not count on developed countries to fulfill their commitments to help achieve the sdgs .
africa must rapidly develop its own resources , which will almost double the tax revenue .
across sub-saharan africa , tax revenues are less than one-fifth of gdp , compared to more than one-third in oecd countries .
this means that there is plenty of room for improvement .
from 1999 to 2004 , for example , ghana reformed its tax system , with tax revenues increased from 11 % to 22 % .
to be sure , such progress is difficult ; in nigeria , we have seen an opportunity to raise non-oil tax revenues , but it is difficult to grasp it .
another domestic resource is the roughly $ 380 billion held by the ten african countries .
policymakers should use this considerable amount of funding .
meanwhile , african countries must find ways to diversify their economies .
diversification requires investing in future investments , such as education and well-developed infrastructure ( communications , electricity , roads , rail , and waterways ) .
a model that can be emulated is many : dubai , singapore , thailand , malaysia , mexico , indonesia , and south korea all are admired by africa ’ s people .
dubai , for example , began to prepare for a future without oil .
the government has implemented a gradual transformation , transforming the economy into a service economy , providing the necessary infrastructure and incentives for financial services , tourism , health care , real estate , media , arts , and culture .
while neither south korea nor singapore can rely on natural resources , their example is also encouraging .
behind these countries ’ success is a relentless leader , both secular and moderate , or democratically elected politicians with a shared vision of a broad-based economy .
sub-saharan africa has the diverse growth paths that many of its pioneers lack : value-added agriculture and agriculture , mineral resources , petrochemical , durable , and consumer goods , tourism and entertainment , and emerging information technology .
with the necessary diversity of measures , policymakers must ensure that the economic growth they pursue creates jobs .
sadly , this is not necessarily the case .
much of the recent growth has benefited only a few people , excluding most people – especially young people and women .
from 2006 to 2013 , many of africa ’ s most important economies , including south africa , nigeria , ghana , tanzania , and rwanda , have increased .
as nigeria ’ s finance minister , i was already addressing some challenges .
we know that we need not only ensure that growth is needed , but also the quality of growth .
to this end , policymakers must ensure that growth is channeled toward sectors that create jobs , such as agriculture , manufacturing , and services .
matching skills to job opportunities is crucial .
roughly 70 % of africa ’ s population is less than 30 years old , and africa ’ s out-of-school children account for half of the world ’ s children .
bringing africa ’ s children to a basic reading , writing , and technical skills is a top priority .
poor health-care systems must also be strengthened in order to address endemic diseases that limit productivity , such as malaria , and to improve preparedness for infectious diseases .
the stakes are high .
the world bank estimates that the outbreak of the ebola epidemic has reduced the economies of sierra leone , guinea , and liberia by 16 % .
as the world economy is weak , african countries must develop trade in one another .
in 2013 , african goods and services accounted for just 16 % of intra-african trade or more than 3 % of world trade .
one problem is that most african countries produce a single commodity , with very little value-added .
policymakers must encourage greater specialization ; diversified goods and services can be added to the value of trade .
logistics is another obstacle to intra-african trade .
policymakers must improve the linkages between the state and reduce bureaucratic barriers and administrative costs , thereby facilitating cross-border transit .
for example , road transport tariffs in africa are estimated to be $ 0.13 per cubic meter , compared to the average of $ 0.05 for all developing countries .
the railway railway project , which ultimately connects mombasa in mombasa in mombasa , in kenya and kampala , provides a good illustration of the benefits that investment in transportation can provide .
the afdb estimates that it would double the volume of trade between the two countries , while lowering marginal costs by 30 % .
and , while these investments can not be made , policymakers must not forget that most of africa ’ s growth is due to good macroeconomic policies and sound economic management .
extending africa ’ s rise requires strengthening african economic fundamentals .
this means ensuring that prices in the economy are correct , beginning with the exchange rate .
some countries may need temporary controls to curb the outflow of destructive capital , but policymakers should aim for the market exchange rate and a sound plan to govern inflation , debt , foreign-exchange reserves , current accounts , and fiscal balance .
africa ’ s potential is enormous .
africa is well placed to build diversified economies based on low-carbon , sustainable infrastructure .
but policymakers can not assume that africa will continue to rise .
they must take the right steps to ensure that .
africa ’ s urban farmers
nairobi – when i recently met in nairobi , kenya ’ s capital , nairobi , i was surprised by the content of her phone call , and she was constantly asking her mother ’ s own home with a few hours from the capital .
as a nurse , you will hope to use farm farming to buy more land – and then get more .
while living in kenya ’ s capital is living in kenya ’ s capital , wangari is able to profit from cash crops in relatives every year .
the start was her nurse ’ s monthly wage of around $ 350 per month – but it was long before .
wangari is one of thousands of lives in kenya ’ s “ urban peasant ” – and hundreds of thousands of people in the continent – are raising their incomes by “ telemedicine ” farming .
a remote farm has thus strengthened national pride , while boosting pride in traditional diets by raising attention to some regions ’ vegetables .
“ the food of imported food and western-style food has been proliferating for too long in our country , ” wangari says , “ we are now fighting back and planting our own food . ”
after a long period of neglect of rural areas , leaders across the continent have become more important than farming , recognizing that educated people , even in the major cities , can play a role in agriculture .
in nigeria , former president olusegun obasanjo has a huge , 农场 farm , pursuing a series of policies to help absentee farmers succeed .
in uganda , vice president 吉尔伯特 坎尼 has routinely visited the country as well , promoting more valuable agricultural operations , such as milk production .
the most explicit political support for remote agriculture is in liberia , where agriculture in the small west suffered a major blow to the country ’ s population , which still depends on imported food to feed the population .
when president johnson-sirleaf realized that a well-educated people could contribute much to the agricultural revival , she launched the “ return of the ground ” activity in june 2008 , especially to encourage city dwellers to become agriculture .
one thing is certain : the long-range agriculture created by the elites and educated cities can not solve all of africa ’ s immediate food problems .
moreover , these telemedicine workers face unexpected problems .
because they are unable to check the ground , they are largely dependent on their own friends to care for the state of emergency , which , when i grew up in villages that grew up in the countryside this spring , my mother agreed to help me regularly , 浇水 , and administer .
without her help , i might not have farmed .
but even with my mother ’ s help , i am worried .
while i grew up around wheat fields , my knowledge of farming is thin .
fertilizer and pesticides are more expensive than i think .
when my wheat 麦苗 is taking root , i began to worry that the price of wheat in november will fall , and that i was not back .
the key tool is mobile phones .
my hopes for success are my hopes , because i call my mother a call to her farm , and that i would not .
we even decided to use which pesticides and to hire a company to hire .
because these cities ’ appetite for urban dwellers and rural conditions is familiar , many have succeeded .
in fact , some urbanites do not need to worry about buying land or acquiring remote assistance , because some of the varieties of crops are available in their own homes .
james 麦姆锡 , a accountants , grows at home as a spare bedroom , and sold it to nearby hotels and supermarkets .
but most people living in african cities have a way to get land in rural areas , which is why liberia ’ s government has so clearly emphasized the expansion of agriculture .
in a new campaign initiated this summer , the official was the case : “ land is the only bank , invest in the bank . ”
in liberia , the main driver is to reduce imports of staples like rice and tomatoes .
and in a more affluent country , africa ’ s elites are driven by complex reasons that are intertwined with national pride and concerns about food shortages .
consider , for example , the 一系列 班达 banda 20 years ago in zambia , leading a fashion in a real local 菜 .
now , ordinary 卢萨卡 want to cook a similar bus in their own home , which requires a growing number of farmers to produce more precision , such as 南瓜 , “ 黑杰克 , ” and fresh 秋葵 .
similarly , in nairobi , a woman entrepreneur 名叫 金亚 is producing more nutritious 粗磨 and 小麦粉 小麦粉 .
what distinguishes her food from the west is to distinguish the 金亚 from the west by selling a “ 玛拉 ” taste for coffee , and “ alesina ” is a 绿色蔬菜 plant in kenya .
last year , unilever ’ s subsidiaries in kenya launched a “ 品尝 ” campaign to promote a range of products in east africa ’ s east african 香草 and spices .
these activities are closely related to the expansion of agriculture , because these sellers tend to prefer nearby growers , even though they are increasingly 城里人 .
cultivating africa ’ s scientific talent
toronto – ten years ago , south african physicist neil turok made a bold prediction : the next einstein will come from africa .
it is a decade late , and it is time to think about whether the continent is closer to the next global genius .
that is certainly true .
by 2050 , 40 % of the world ’ s young people will be africans .
in terms of demographics alone , africa is set to produce 神童 in science and technology .
africans once led the world in science .
indeed , some of humanity ’ s greatest innovations – from vaccines to brain surgery – are pioneered by africans .
one of the oldest measurements of the most ancient measure of equipment so far has been devoted to people who lived in modern-day 瓦蒂尼 ( swaziland ) .
in other words , mathematics itself is an african invention .
for decades , many scientific and policy hubs – for example , the global champion of sustainable development , 卡莱斯 , and the environment activists and nobel laureates – supported the african scientific agenda .
as these visionaries are gone , africa needs a new set of think tanks to inspire a study of the ethical and common spirit of the future .
but how can we ensure that africa , for its part , supports , support , and nurtured innovative scientists that change the rules of the game ?
the missing factor is an african education system that supports research innovation – and , in the case of africa ’ s local – offers the training and support needed to provide the training and support that he or she needs .
across the continent , governments have become increasingly common in recognizing that science , technology , engineering , and mathematics are critical to economic growth and development .
yet many of africa ’ s young researchers have no choice but to go abroad and work abroad .
this can be changed , but only through concrete investments in homegrown talent .
this means rethinking the entire african education system .
three priorities must be addressed
first , african countries need to fix the knowledge pipeline .
this means investing in teacher training , improving learning outcomes , retention of girls in scientific engineering disciplines , providing support for universities in research and development , and in the 私营部门 实验室 实验室 .
second , africa needs indigenous knowledge creation .
this requires simultaneously promoting both basic and applied research and creating the necessary infrastructure for the spread of research .
this would include providing more funding to researchers and research institutions and to promote open-source knowledge sharing .
a third priority is to move knowledge into practice .
this may involve providing scientific information to the public and innovators , and to support public-private partnerships to experiment , demonstrate , and apply research , thereby creating jobs tailored to public problems .
the company is a good example , and it uses drones to deliver blood to remote areas of rwanda .
it is now being introduced in ghana after successfully deploying ghana .
it has saved hundreds of lives and demonstrated the potential of technology transfer that has massive influence .
the next einstein forum , spearheaded by the institute for mathematical sciences in africa , has been organized – and the idea of the tad foundation is partly supported by the mastercard foundation – showing that africa produces high scientific talent .
the forum is working to highlight africa ’ s innovators to highlight breakthrough discoveries and promote scientific cooperation on human development .
since selecting the first fellows in 2015 , the forum has promoted many young african researchers working to address the world ’ s toughest technological challenges .
at the forum ’ s current research team , 阿布迪 迪里 , a 平台 加尼 in kenya , has created a 贷款 loan platform that has recently been met with a 评为 of 非洲 传感器 , one of the country ’ s most recent innovators ; and , in the case of 南非 讷 , south africa ’ s 文 性健康 , he has been a patent device for detecting 再生能源 性健康 .
in many complex problems today , africa needs an innovative education and research model .
but , as long as the next einstein forum and a similar program continue to build and address systemic problems such as the continent ’ s brightest young scientists , the academic head of the solution is likely to emerge in the next einstein prediction .
improving african women ’ s health through financial inclusion
accra – last october , the world health organization ’ s office in africa signed an agreement with the united nations international telecommunication union ( itu ) .
the goal of this seemingly impossible partnership is to encourage the use of digital services to “ save lives , improve people ’ s health . ”
but perhaps the agreement ’ s most innovative part is that it promises to integrate financial inclusion strategies with modern health services .
financial inclusion is an effective way to verify the health of people ’ s health , especially for women in developing countries .
women who can easily access bank accounts or cash payment options tend to invest more in their businesses and households .
in turn , they live healthier , more satisfying .
but , as is often the case , initiatives like the agreement signed in october tend to focus on one – electronic health ( such as 保险 ) or financial products like insurance .
the ability of africans to make money and save more than they would have had a good health care or no chance of dying , so it is an opportunity to help patients and build more resilient societies .
the stakes for africa ’ s women are particularly high .
in nigeria , for example , 400,000 women are suffering from 产瘘 , a disabling condition of childbirth .
in tanzania , around 8,000 women die each year from pregnancy or childbirth ; most are avoidable .
and , for all africa , life expectancy for women is only 58 years , compared to more than 80 years in developed countries .
people are working hard to link women ’ s health solutions with financial inclusion and are making progress .
at a recent conference in dar es salaam , experts from technology and financial-services industries joined investors , philanthropists , and development experts to develop ways to work for african women .
by a similar program , development experts can promote digital solutions as a means of social and financial empowerment .
unfortunately , the cooperation plan , signed in october , is the exception , not the exception .
banks , regulators , the financial sector , and telecommunications companies are all frequently discussed in general , but they have not included local and global health professionals .
this must change if we are to build more inclusive platforms for african patients and customers .
the first step is to recognize missed opportunities .
one big opportunity is to adopt a different approach to extending financial services and digitization to rural areas in africa .
meanwhile , community health workers ( chws ) are taking these areas to prevent , treat , and triage jobs .
combining these measures makes sense , because both programs rely heavily on trust .
through 网络 networks , chws can use financial products , such as mobile cash payment systems , to expand their access to electronic health services .
broadening digital disease management and access to health information to include financial wellbeing produces natural synergies .
some fear that increasing the burden of chws would drag down health-care quality , but a fragmented view of prosperity is worse .
in recognizing the opportunity to expand the opportunity , the rest of the world needs to be addressed before women ’ s health and financial inclusion programs are expanded .
first , the lack of a gender distinction makes it difficult to formulate policies based on health quality and financial needs .
although countries like burundi and senegal are working to improve the collection of specific gender data , broader , more coordinated initiatives are needed .
increased regional financial literacy is another challenge .
the ability to understand and execute personal financial affairs is the weakest link in transforming women ’ s opportunities through financial inclusion .
moreover , financial literacy is a prerequisite for the launch of financing programs – such as the support of small and 小微 enterprises – for women .
if it can increase the level of financial literacy , women receive resources like land and credit , which are crucial to business development , social mobility , and personal growth .
progress has been made in building a level playing field , but it must be sustained .
the agreement by the who and the itu would help to foster wealth creation in africa , which lacks access to health care and financial services .
to sustain this momentum , deeper commitments are needed , especially from the global health community .
but , regardless of how african governments advance their health and financial services , women need to be at the heart of their proposals .
closing the youth apathy gap
nairobi – when united nations member states adopted the sustainable development goals two years ago ( sdgs ) , they committed themselves to reducing “ the proportion of young people who are excluded from employment , education , and training . ”
unless the political participation of the young can grow significantly , that commitment is almost impossible .
young people are the key to progress .
as us president barack obama noted in his 2015 speech in nairobi , “ unless one country can rely on the talents of all people , it can not fulfill its full potential . ”
today , young people comprise a large share of these people – and , precisely , the 18 % of the world ’ s population .
in most developing countries , this ratio is even higher .
the median age of africa ’ s population is 19.5 .
from these data – not to mention rising educational attainment and literacy – young people can change the world , affecting political processes and electoral outcomes .
but that will require them to engage and be active .
in the united kingdom , most young people want to remain in the eu .
a lord Ashcroft survey showed that 73 % of those aged 18-24 , and 62 % of those aged 16-24 , voted for remain in the last year .
but most young british people have actually failed to exercise their voting rights , making the british older – mostly backed by brexit – winning victory .
in kenya ’ s presidential election last month , 51 % of registered voters were below the age of 35 .
despite the supreme court ’ s ouster of the results of the election and the removal of the results , a large number of young people may be tempted to vote again .
unfortunately , kenya is an exception to the rules .
political apathy among young people – as in the brexit referendum – remains pervasive worldwide .
in much of africa , for example , young people have become disillusioned with politics , believing that the winner will always be rich , they have driven their interests to sacrifice the interests of younger generations .
this sense of cosmopolitanism ( disempowerment ) may turn the youth bulge in the developing world into a youth curse – and potentially potentially serious consequences .
the arab spring uprisings led to violence and instability in most affected countries , driven largely by desperate young people demanding rights and opportunities .
to avoid such an outcome , young people must become part of national politics , enabling their own vision of the future .
as young kenyans repeatedly emphasized during the recent election campaign , “ the tables are not on the table . ”
so how can the political consciousness and participation of young people be raised ?
in kenya , government measures are focused on creating three institutions : the ministry of public services , youth , and gender affairs , youth entrepreneurship funds , and the national youth council .
although these institutions are not necessarily perfect , they can help to empower kenyan youth , contributing to high voter turnout last month .
but the most effective approach to closing the apathy gap is centered on projects led by young people themselves .
in nigeria , young people led the way to a “ beginning to run a ” campaign that drove nigeria to revise its constitution and reduce the minimum age of candidates .
their success inspired a global movement to support young people ’ s rights .
in kenya , the youth-led Jiactivate – the name and english , the name of “ activating you ” – aims to increase youth political participation by emphasizing the main issues affecting young people .
as the national 理事长 ’ s identity , our goal is to act as a platform to amplify young kenyans ’ voices and make it easier for them to act .
to inspire more such initiatives , efforts must be taken deliberately to support genuine political engagement with young people , rather than at the 表面文章 and 空喊 .
to this end , africa ’ s youth organization , which i am coordinator , is not only collaborating with local youth groups and community networks ; it also learned from a GeoPoll survey of 2,000 kenyan towns and rural youth .
the survey showed that 27 % of respondents never participated in politics , but 26 % attended political events and 34 % posted social media .
moreover , 68 % of respondents said that they would participate in political activity only if access to safe and trusted platforms can be secured .
from these data , we can conclude that , while social media have been contained during elections in many countries , it remains a powerful tool for facilitating youth participation in politics .
for example , by creatively using social media to collect , 整理 , and amplify young people ’ s priorities in the kenyan elections , it has raised their interest in politics .
nonetheless , many kenyans who were popular on social media have not had much impact on the election results .
translating social media ’ s energy into effective action in the real world remains a daunting challenge .
higher political participation in youth will require sustained efforts and hard work .
but this should not be a resistance , and it should be a powerful incentive to start action .
young people are the most affected by past , present , and future policies .
they must be at the table , not waiting for handouts .
toronto – a few years ago , when young people spoke with young people in some of senegal ’ s poorest communities , the two social entrepreneurs told me that they were projects that they were engaged in success .
one young man said that he plans to deliver more computers to primary schools ; another , in the city ’ s capital crunch , created a network of rural job seekers .
after having finished their plan , i told them that their parents were sure to be proud .
but instead of accepting praise , they are silent .
“ my parents object to me , ” they almost unanimously said , and then they explained to me that young people face a government job or use their english skills as a guide – rather than becoming entrepreneurs of risk .
for ambitious young africans , many obstacles will be needed to succeed .
with formal or informal work , the journey to work often is full of solitude .
many young people lack skills training , or even a favorable social environment to try new things .
this day ’ s experience in senegal reminds me of helping young people to find valuable jobs that can help africa ’ s development .
africa has the world ’ s largest population .
for the next 25 years , these young people will become the world ’ s labor force , with more than 1.1 billion working-age people .
some predict that ten million people will enter the african labor market every year over the next ten years , most of which are first-time job seekers .
if african countries promote employment growth and equip young people with skills skills , this youth bulge could bring rapid , inclusive , and sustainable economic growth to the continent .
in turn , millions of people may have an opportunity to escape poverty .
but africa can not achieve this future alone .
in the mastercard foundation , we believe that if africa is to reach its full potential , the gap between two key areas must be closed .
the first area is access to financial products and services .
according to the world bank , some two billion people around the world currently lack access to financial products and services .
in sub-saharan africa , only 34 % of adults have 银行户头 , making it difficult for people to save money money for a rainy weekend , for example , with crop failures or the need to save the school .
this must change , and africans should not only have better financial systems , but should also improve financial literacy .
the second key issue that must be addressed is exclusion from secondary and higher education .
although progress has been made in some regions , it has only about one-third of young people graduate from high school .
girls are particularly disadvantaged ; according to unesco , in sub-saharan africa , nine million girls under the age of 11 have never been subjected to school education , while only six million boys have never attended .
to address these problems , the mastercard foundation has established partnerships with local organizations aimed at designing education and financing programs that help young people find and retain jobs .
by building a more trained workforce , the mastercard foundation projects are helping to empower community members and leaders in the next generation , so that they can help their families , communities , and countries achieve a brighter and prosperous future .
as i have encountered in senegal , a new generation of educated and ethical entrepreneurs is emerging , reflecting the far-reaching goal of building a stronger africa .
for example , when i asked the young people who participated in our academic plan to do something , they almost invariably reply that , after finding new jobs , they want to help others , such as the return of secondary education to a young student .
some of our curriculum graduates have already established a community plan for hiv/aids in their villages , and others have been housed in orphans and children .
every smart african youth – the example of “ transformational leadership ” – is likely to drive change in their own countries and communities .
if we succeed , africa ’ s dreamers today will be a catalyst for positive change tomorrow .
africa ’ s defining challenge
addis ababa – africa has the youngest population in the world , and is growing fast .
by 2055 , the continent ’ s youth population ( 15-24 from 24 to 24 ) is expected to be more than quadrupling in 2015 .
but young people still face unfriendly political , economic , and social conditions across the continent .
whether african governments can address this problem will be the single most important determinant of prosperity or bust in the continent over the next few decades .
if it continues to pursue business as usual , africa will need to face not only economic weakness and brain drain , but also the rampant , political , and social turmoil that can erupt into conflict .
but if african governments act immediately to inspire the energy and dynamism of a new generation of young people , the continent will prosper .
we need a comprehensive policy agenda to take into account the relevant demographic factors , which address the exclusion and plight of young people in politics , culture , and economics .
achieving this will not be easy , especially given the huge age of youth and national leaders in africa , where the average age of the african presidency is 62 , while the median age of africa ’ s youth is 19.5 years .
this creates the biggest age of age between world rulers and the establishment , and has raised concerns about whether policymakers can understand the expectations and demand of young people .
many countries have traditionally made the difference in traditional , 老人 politics , which means that young people ’ s political participation and influence are subject to cultural factors .
to overcome this hurdle , african governments should address generational inequality by addressing the urgency of other unequal issues , accelerating the efforts of young people to implement quotas for young people , parliaments , and other policymaking bodies .
there is also much to be done about the economy .
according to the african development bank , 12 million young people joined african workers in 2015 , but only 3.1 million jobs were created .
this means that millions of young people are deprived of the economic benefits .
in the short term , it is almost impossible to create jobs to meet job demand and the employment needs of the vulnerable .
africa does not have large labor-intensive manufacturing sectors with large populations of young people .
but some initiatives can help .
for example , the YouthConnekt initiative , launched by the united nations development programme and the government of rwanda , encourages 政策 policies , such as the opportunity to finance them , to finance market needs in their countries .
but , given the dearth of opportunities at home , many young africans rely on immigration to secure social mobility .
but the ceo of a major business firm in sub-saharan africa recently complained that the working visa for africans is extremely difficult .
indeed , british citizens may be making work visas more easily than a ghanaian with equal skills .
without labor-market policies to expand vocational paths to young africans , the prospects for african economic integration planning for the african union ’ s agenda will be difficult to achieve .
so many africans prefer to risk drowning in the mediterranean , living in appalling detention centers in north africa , or 露宿 in europe , or to remain in africa ’ s case .
but , contrary to widespread recognition , young people are not alone in choosing migrants for economic reasons .
instead , they want opportunities for genuine self-improvement and freedom of self and lifestyle .
young people , i have been young , leave africa to europe .
in fact , the desire to achieve self-improvement through migration is a key component of human experience – no desert , sea , or artificial barrier .
as a result , any strategy that can not truly resolve the environment in which the environment is not being resolved is simply not working .
so far , africa seems to be sleepwalking into a future of lost opportunity and potentially extreme instability .
and africa ’ s international partners seem to focus on limiting migration from the continent , rather than focusing on the underlying causes of migration .
but there is reason for hope .
the european union summit , scheduled later this year , will focus on the continent ’ s young people .
likewise , the african union ’ s work theme in 2017 is “ through investment young people ” to “ drain africa ’ s demographic dividend . ”
one hopes that a growing awareness of the need for young people to create opportunities for young people can foster an effective and effective effort to eradicate the continent ’ s youth employment obstacles , and to replace the actions of young people simply through barriers to prevent young people from leaving .
to borrow martin luther king , africa is now facing an acute emergency .
too late , too late .
listening to africa ’ s future farmers
nairobi – africa is in a youth employment crisis .
by 2035 , africa needs about 3.5 billion new jobs , and its largest industrial sector could provide much of it .
but , so far , africa ’ s young people are leaving the farm to work in cities .
to fill africa ’ s unemployment gap , agricultural firms must find ways to recruit younger people .
the challenge is my research focus , which is part of a program working with young people , 研究 youth think tank , and the mastercard foundation .
in the latest report , we examined the experience of africa ’ s young agricultural experts .
we found that the best way to attract young people back to farms is to enable them to access and exploit emerging technologies .
many young people with whom we communicate say that their biggest barrier to farming is to learn the digital and technological skills needed to succeed in today ’ s agricultural market .
cloud computing , land sensors , and weather drones are changing food production , packaging , and distribution methods , as is the case with arable land and high-quality seeds .
so , if more young people are able to master digital skills , more people will find their uses in the field .
to understand the importance of technology to africa ’ s young farmers , consider the following land competition .
most farmland is acquired through legacy or communal distribution , and new distribution of farmland is often small , with less than a small amount of farmland .
to remain profitable , young farmers must produce more crops in less land , which requires innovation .
our research found that , in many cases , the best way for young farmers is already being developed among young people .
in kenya , for example , a 菜农 garden transformed her garden into a vertical farm to increase output .
today , she runs her own businesses to design , produce , and install similar structures .
another 受访者 developed a mobile app to help farmers connect with local seed and fertilizer suppliers .
unfortunately , these young people ’ s innovations rarely receive the necessary political and financial support to achieve survival and expansion .
many young agricultural innovators have great ideas , but they lack support .
our research suggests some strategies to achieve this outcome .
first , young people need places that communicate with innovative innovators .
recognizing this , policymakers and the private sector should work together to create incubation centers and creative hubs to help young people build , discuss , and engage with farms related to farms .
moreover , those pushing for new farm technologies should experience a place where young people gather , providing an opportunity to train their own experiences and tailor to audiences .
if the latest farm technologies and tools are to be sold to social media ( often in the same way ) , rural areas ’ absorption of these technologies and tools can not be increased .
then there is the need for financial products and services to help them convert their ideas into marketable businesses .
finally , countries must find ways to engage young people in the early stages of technological development .
as the experience of the kenyan 菜农 shows , young people are often the best way to deliver long-term tangible results .
last year , i was fortunate to show these findings at the global youth economic opportunity summit in washington , dc .
i spoke about the role young people play in africa ’ s economy , and to collect their views about the future of african agriculture .
this is an important first step toward putting young people on the table .
but much work is needed .
according to the united nations food and agriculture organization , the average age of african farmers is now around 60 , compared to less than 24 % in the age of 24 .
to breathe new blood into africa ’ s farms , the entire agricultural sector must innovate .
our research shows that the best way to achieve innovation is to cooperate more closely with those who benefit most from progress .
after assimilation
human migration is as old as our history , even if immigrants migrate to distant and unfamiliar places .
in the nineteenth century , millions of europeans traveled to the americas , especially the united states , for freedom and prosperity .
but today ’ s migration scale is unprecedented , and migration often crosses the massive cultural barrier – without a specific target .
africa ’ s 船民 african region is often unaware of what it wants : italy , germany , or britain .
even as immigrants in spain and france , like north africa and france , are aware of their own destination , their primary goal is to escape the desperation of domestic despair , rather than as a whole .
this modern form of migration creates many problems for host countries , even as europe ’ s most serious social problems , because no one knows how to deal with the resulting cultural clash .
once upon a time , north america , especially the united states , became a model of problem-solving .
they propose `` melting pot '' : different american culture made their own contributions , but most importantly , they do their best to accept reality .
when russian womanhood in the early twentieth century were born in the united states , their ancestors were joined with pilgrims to `` 五月花 '' ships that replied : `` not , but we are not the same as our ships , but we are all americans . ”
but recent developments have changed , and president john f. kennedy ’ s former assistant , historian arthur schlesinger , the historian of the historian , and the historian of the united states , began to appear in the first place .
america ’ s citizens are no longer the americans , but in the first place : 意大利 , african-americans , hispanics , and so on .
part of the melting pot is fragmented .
even in israel , where the last real immigration country – at least for jews – is not the same as it is , cultural integration is no longer easy .
israel and the us still have mechanisms to integrate new immigrants .
language is an important underlying factor , as well as the military , and the values embedded in the us constitution still represent a common social belief .
but such mechanisms are gradually weakening worldwide , and are almost non-existent in european countries .
the problem has become the greatest crisis in modern societies .
it is no longer possible to feel an implicit link , as felt by the past , which has led them to cling to other more primitive identities .
they reject assimilation , fear that the integration of culture is not only a new sense of belonging , but also the old identity .
what else is the alternative to assimilation ?
the so-called 沙拉 `` 沙拉 '' is not really a matter of choice , because it provides the glue that binds groups together .
all are separate from the start .
successful precedents , and the only viable alternative options , may be in london and new york , whose main features are shared public sphere , in which there are many cultural differences in residential areas , particularly residential areas .
people in the public sphere are diverse , but they are consistent with shared values and even the same language , while people ’ s private life – a word to describe a bad thing – is a different phenomenon .
in theory , this is a second-best solution to the problem of migration , but , in practical terms , it is our best approach .
but that is no easy feat .
even if the common minimum of a common language is to be met , let alone establish a specific code of conduct for behavior .
as london ’ s residents , the london people ’ s acceptance of public transport in the shops and western indians , which have never asked me why the region is bangladesh or the chinese .
even no one has imagined the name of a `` separate , equitable '' concept that we strongly opposed in the 1960 ’ s : a very different personal life in an equal public sphere .
such a phenomenon is certainly more common in cities like london and new york than in smaller towns and even in english .
berlin ’ s turks and north african counterparts in paris appear to be divided , and each nation has its own public sphere and its own language .
if this happens , there is an explosive picture of separatism , not an ancient group of groups , but rather a new immigration and the natives .
if we are forced to abandon the hope of assimilation , we must concentrate on creating the public environment that all will give and enjoy .
ideally , this public environment should continue to grow , because , after all , the cohesion of modern societies is the ultimate guarantee of civil liberties .
after austerity
new york – this year ’ s annual meetings of the international monetary fund make clear that europe and the international community are blind to economic policy .
fiscal leaders – whether finance ministers or private financial institutions – are constantly playing out , saying that the crisis countries must pick up their homes , cut their debts , reduce their national debt , implement structural reforms , and promote growth .
restoring confidence has been repeated .
those who dominate central bankers , finance ministers , senior businessmen at private banks , and the high ranks of the world ’ s financial system have left the global financial system to the brink , and that the chaos that they can do is still “ exceptional . ”
making matters worse , it is easy to square the square .
how can confidence be restored when the crisis economies fell into recession ?
how can growth be restored when austerity is almost certain to drag down aggregate demand further , make output and employment worse ?
not only has the market repeatedly contributed to destabilizing asset bubbles , but when demand is weak , the forces of the market will rise .
unemployment , and fears of contagion , depress wages , incomes , and consumption , thereby undermining aggregate demand .
the decline in household formation – for example , the younger generation of americans who are increasingly moving home and running with parents – has reduced home prices and led to more people ’ s foreclosures .
countries that have balanced the budget framework are forced to cut budgets , because tax revenues have reduced – europe ’ s single-minded embrace of “ 器 ” ( destabilizer ) .
we can take an alternative .
countries like germany have room for fiscal maneuver , with investments that can boost long-term growth and have positive spillover effects on the rest of europe .
a well-established principle is that the balance of spending on tax and spending boosts the economy , and if a well-designed program is designed ( and increased spending on the top ) , gdp and employment will be significantly improved .
as a whole , europe ’ s fiscal position is not bad : its debt-to-gdp ratio is better than the us .
if every us state needs to be fully responsible for its own budget , including paying all unemployment insurance , the us would also have a fiscal crisis .
america ’ s experience is obvious : part of the sum is more than the sum .
if europe , especially the european central bank , can borrow and convert lending , the cost of servicing the european debt will fall , creating room for spending on stimulus and employment .
the appropriate institutions within europe , such as the european investment bank , can help finance the investment needed to finance the country ’ s troubled economies .
the european investment bank should step up its lending .
small and medium-size enterprises – the leading contributor to job creation – need more funding , especially because bank credit is hit particularly hard by the contraction of small and medium-size enterprises .
europe ’ s single-minded focus on austerity stems from the misdiagnosis of the problem .
greece does point to excessive , but spanish and irish fiscal deficits were running surpluses before the crisis , and debt-to-gdp ratios are low .
talk of prudence is beside the point .
it is not even a matter of imposing a tight budget framework that would backfire .
whether europe ’ s problem is temporary or fundamental – for example , the eurozone is far from “ optimal ” currency , and taxes on taxation and free movement of people will bring down the health of countries that were once healthy – and that austerity will certainly make matters worse .
the consequences of europe ’ s rush to austerity will continue for a long time , and may well be serious .
if the euro survives , it is at the expense of high unemployment and multiple painful ( especially the crisis countries ) .
and the crisis itself will almost certainly spread .
the firewall was fueled by a firewall , which is the only thing that europe is doing : no large economy – europe is the world ’ s largest economy – has recovered through austerity .
as a result , society ’ s most valuable asset – human capital is being wasted or destroyed .
young people have long searched for a decent job – and youth unemployment in some countries is reaching or exceeding 50 % , and has been unacceptably high since 2008 .
even if they eventually find jobs , wages are much lower .
normally , youth is a time when skills accumulate skills , and today young people are losing skills .
so many countries do nothing to do so in the face of natural disasters – earthquakes , floods , typhoons , hurricanes , tsunamis , and more than man-made disasters .
but that is exactly what europe does .
the pain that europe – especially the poor and young in europe – is suffering is avoidable .
fortunately , we can find alternatives .
but the delay will be high , and europe is wasting valuable time .
immunization independence
washington , dc – the first years of this century are the golden age of global health .
international donors – whether national governments , such as the national government , or new international financing programs , such as the global effort to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria – have invested billions of dollars in national control plans and health systems , saving millions of lives .
but today , some countries that have benefited from these programs face a new challenge : the gains that continue after external support is lost .
ultimately , donors ’ programs – and health assistance as a whole – are judged by this shift .
consider gavi , a vaccine alliance .
the gavi establishment was founded in 2000 by a major donors , international institutions , and the industry ’ s leaders , aimed at helping the world ’ s poorest countries to introduce new lifesaving vaccines and strengthen their immunization programs .
a country that per capita per capita income is at a certain level – currently $ 1,580 – can not afford gavi support .
of course , gavi does not cut off immediately .
support will be phased over for years .
in this transition period , the country will have to increase immunization programs dramatically and prepare for full self-reliance .
this approach has been implemented since 2000 , enabling gavi to concentrate resources on countries that need the most .
but now it faces a serious test : one-third of the countries that have been supporting the support of gavi , where gavi has expanded support , or have just completed the transition .
these countries , such as armenia , bhutan , honduras , vietnam , and vietnam , have the highest birth rates , such as india and nigeria .
the gavi model is being observed under the microscope .
can these countries continue to buy and expand the vaccines adopted by gavi support ?
equally important , will this work stick ?
should the government be cut off , will immunization be protected with other essential health services ?
can countries introduce them when new lifesaving vaccines are available ?
can they sustain and strengthen disease surveillance so that outbreaks of disease are detected and quickly controlled ?
or will fiscal pressures lead to vaccine shortages in some countries , declining vaccination coverage , and even worse , and , in the worst case , the vaccine has been discredited by the country ’ s hard-won progress in recent years ?
the answers to these problems are important not only for these countries themselves , but also for their neighbors , where their neighbors may be immune to backsliding .
after all , infectious diseases do not respect national boundaries .
the recent yellow fever epidemic in angola , for example , spread to a far poorer neighbor than its poorer neighbor , the democratic republic of congo .
the experience of countries with “ graduated ” from gavi aid also provides important lessons for other international health programs and their beneficiaries .
the stakes are high , and international institutions must do whatever they can to prepare for the “ life of gavi . ”
while immunization programs require only a relatively small share of health budgets , and with high economic returns , ensuring that the money needed is still required .
new resources can help countries overcome this challenge .
the “ 融资 : 者 , policymakers , and programs , ” provided the resources for estimating the cost of vaccination , assess the benefits of different financing resources , and develop procurement strategies , through information processes .
instead of specifying a practice , it provides relevant information and expert analysis .
countries can respond accordingly to their own environmental assessments , and to promote the right questions .
with gavi support , close to 580 million children have been vaccinated since 2000 , more than eight million future deaths .
this is impressive achievements that are worth celebrating .
but only when countries successfully navigated the transition from gavi support will they have confidence that future generations will receive the same health protection .
after kyoto
the kyoto protocol has entered into force for the 126 countries that have entered the agreement .
it is time to consider how to make all countries , including those with a large greenhouse-gas power , to discuss the deal ’ s failure in 2012 .
this is precisely what the european commission ’ s first strategy to propose in the wake of the european union ’ s first 京都 approach to the post-kyoto era will be discussed in march .
although the kyoto protocol has made a small dent in the co2 emissions of industrial countries – with the country ’ s conflicting objectives , co2 emissions fell by 5.2 % from 1990 to 2012 – but real progress has been achieved by committing to sustained development and protecting our planet .
but , first , all countries must integrate their attention to the development of the climate , and strengthen key sectors such as energy , infrastructure , and transportation .
in other words , we must respond to global security after recognizing and recognizing the impact of it on the people of rich and poor countries .
finally , this long-term plan should include a standard system , an incentive system , and the investment needed for technological change .
the application of the state ’ s program will increasingly become a major program for adequate funding .
addressing the effects of climate change and emission reductions is not mutually exclusive , but complementary .
looking ahead at kyoto will give us an opportunity to open a new dialogue and start seeking new solutions to climate change .
countries could then put “ long-term constraints on the temperature of the planet ” as a more ambitious goal , and then allocate emission rights among countries , eventually limiting the temperature increase in a acceptable level .
this will require sustained investment in energy research and development , which requires stronger cooperation among the more robust public-private institutions .
so far , only 15 % of the world ’ s population , which accounts for only 15 % of the world ’ s population , emits more than 75 % of the world ’ s total carbon dioxide .
and yet , in developing countries , the world ’ s impoverished people – the world ’ s poor – are being forgiven .
it is unrealistic to assume the costs of technological change in the 1.6 billion people who live in poor countries and technologies that lack access to clean energy and technology .
the world bank , together with its partners , is working to provide financial strategies to developing countries to help them pay for climate change .
so far , more than $ 10 billion in funding from the global environment fund ( GEF ) , together with $ 8 billion in joint funds , has already pledged to be used for projects related to climate change .
the adjustment mechanisms for the kyoto protocol and the european trade plan have facilitated the establishment of a growing carbon trade , which is now worrying about the immediate future .
if there is no framework for management after 2012 , the window of opportunity for 交易 transactions will be closed until 2006 or 2007 .
if the program had a long phase-in period between the first profits of cutting emissions and cutting emissions , the development 者 will be able to contribute only a few years to finance the project until the current carbon deal is resolved .
as a result , the project must enter the operational phase of 2007 .
the world bank has started to promote carbon funding as a viable development tool , and encourages private institutions to join the market .
the world bank will focus on upholding the interests of the 其债国 , helping them to develop their assets in their respective strengths .
but , if governments do not make commitments to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions after 2012 , the carbon market will remain elusive , and the private institutions that are vital to the market ’ s success will not be willing , targeted , and scaled up their participation .
according to a recent world bank fund funded by the world bank , only one-fifth of companies have declared that they have interest to purchase emissions reductions after 2012 .
now it is time to consider the prospect of a safer world , to avoid the dire consequences and adverse consequences of a more secure world .
after paris
new york – the attacks on the islamic state ’ s attacks on paris have previously been attacked in beirut , and a russian 班机 , a russian 班机 in sinai , reinforced the reality that terrorist threats are entering a more dangerous new phase .
the islamic state ’ s effort to organize an attack is now aspirational ; it is likely that it is due to the recent loss of global retaliation in iraq .
but whatever the reason , it is certain that there is a clear response .
in fact , the challenge posed by the islamic state will require multiple responses , because no single policy is sufficient .
multiple responses are needed in multiple domains .
one is military .
it is crucial that the air strikes against islamic state military assets , oil and gas facilities , and leaders are critical .
but no amount of air power can solve the fight alone .
if we want to occupy and hold on territory , a substantial ground ground must be deployed .
unfortunately , there is no time to build a partner force from scratch .
this tried , but the arab countries failed or unwilling to form such a ground force .
the iraqi army has disappointed .
iran-backed militias can only make matters worse .
the best option is to cooperate more closely with the kurdish army , and to select sunni tribes in iraq and syria .
this means that intelligence , arming , and preparing to send more soldiers – currently only 3,500 troops – would be needed to train , perhaps , and help guide military action .
this approach must be implemented in a way that collective action is needed .
an informal form of informal – including the united states , france , the united kingdom , arab countries , and even in the right premise – can be supported by nato or the un .
how to organize matters is not important .
but the symbolic declaration of war is careful , lest it be seen as a façade of winning islam .
the importance of diplomacy is no less important than any other response .
syrian president bashar al-assad is a recruiting tool for isis , and he must step down .
but the successor government must be able to order order , not allowing the islamic state to use power vacuum , as in libya .
a short-term option that is worth exploring is a coalition government that remains representative of the alawite minority , which is a necessary concession to power from power .
in theory , a more representative national government may be able to produce a more representative national government , despite the fantasy of elections in 18 months .
but compromise on these fronts may be difficult .
it is therefore necessary to build more enclaves to protect civilians and fight the islamic state better .
in any sense , syria is no longer a normal state , and it will not be normal for a long time ( if not forever ) .
in the foreseeable future , syria is a more realistic model .
other indispensable elements of effective strategy include giving turkey greater help or pressure , more effort to prevent the flow of recruits from the islamic state .
turkey and jordan need more financial support , because they bear the brunt of the burden of refugees .
arab and muslim leaders can also make contributions , challenging the islamic state ’ s vision of the islamic state and the legitimacy of the islamic state .
there are also plenty of domestic policies .
national security and enforcement – the strengthening of borders and internal protection – must be adjusted according to a growing threat .
the piecemeal terrorists – individuals or small groups that armed attacks against the soft targets of open societies – are hardest hit .
the threat and reality of attacks will require greater social resilience , and perhaps a balance of personal privacy and collective security .
there is also a need for realism .
the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war .
we can not eradicate or eliminate isis in a short time , because it has a network of ideas , ideas , and institutions that control territory and resources .
to be sure , terrorism is and will continue to be the catastrophe of our time .
the good news is that the threat posed by the islamic middle east and the rest of the world can be reduced dramatically by continuing collective action .
the main lesson of the paris attacks is that we must be prepared for action at any time .
after pax americana pax americana
new york – for some time , the world ’ s dominant post-war post-war world will be over .
if so , the global system that has ensured peace , security , openness , and economic growth over the last six decades has been dangerously dangerous .
the success of the us , japan , and the rest of asia , and much of the rest of the world , led to prosperity .
in us universities , foreign students who are educated in us universities have brought back a new view of the free market , entrepreneurship , and democracy that is preventing most of the world from fighting , making the region more vulnerable to economic growth and regional integration .
not only is the us playing a leading role in the creation of a globalized world , such as the united nations , the world bank , the international monetary fund , and nato , and many others seek inspiration for the american model .
it has been limited to the iraq war ’ s quagmire , failing to lead the world to address climate change , and in guantánamo bay , where the deficit was high , and the united states ’ 的 pattern has been lost , and many wondered american leadership .
this fall , in beijing ’ s seventh asia-europe meeting in beijing this fall , its leaders have begun to study the creation of new global financial structures .
for much of the last six decades , it is impossible to hold such a major dialogue without the us to take the lead in the absence of a major us presence .
despite talk of america ’ s decline , the world is not ready for a post-american era .
if the us plays a relatively small role in world affairs and without creating other institutions to compensate for the gap , these values will be endangered .
though some countries hide hide behind the supposedly inviolable principle of sovereignty , are the international community really willing to return to the old model that the country can do to its people ?
does the world believe that if the global trading system breaks down or will no longer be safe , the days of the global trading system are better off ?
is a country like china willing to increase the fund ’ s contributions to the un to maintain the un ’ s functioning ( china ’ s current funding is 2.1 % ) , or is it willing to eliminate aids , tuberculosis , and malaria for international financial institutions or global fund funds ?
unless other countries are more willing to step up for the common cause , the post-american world will soon be more frightening .
the united states must take responsibility for continuing the world ’ s leadership , and the bush administration ’ s unilateralism was criticized for its consequences , but , in turn , today ’ s interdependent world is in a process .
even in the united states , its greatness was motivated by inspiration , and the opportunity to build market share in this particular area was only 600 .
obama ’ s election as president of the united states has taken a significant step , and , in the coming years , america ’ s actions will ultimately determine whether the power of the us model will be restored .
the us can and should lead the world by investing heavily in alternative energy , energy conservation , energy efficiency , and taking aggressive action to tackle climate change , and it should change its policy toward the us and become a us citizen , in particular the current financial crisis .
closing guantánamo and reaffirming america ’ s commitment to international law and human rights will be an important step in this direction .
the world wants to believe in america ’ s own best values .
the prospect of a concerted effort by the international community to achieve the common cause is truly exciting .
but , while the us has not been perfect in the last six decades , the end of pax americana is likely to pose a dangerous vacuum in international affairs .
if the world shifts toward a new , more global democracy , other countries will need to act effectively to take on new responsibilities .
they do so in the interest of the us and the world , not only in global institutions , but also in places like darfur , zimbabwe , and myanmar .
until then , let us hope that the us is once again the champion of a common deal to tackle the world ’ s most serious challenges , and to work together as much as possible .
after the guns of august
the middle east ’ s middle east has never been resolved .
whenever occasional hopes - like un resolution 1701 to defuse the conflict in lebanon – have raised light on the timing of the united nations resolution 1701 , the hope is that a responsible debate can influence the power of power .
let ’ s start with the us .
president george w. bush has neither a plausible solution nor a 心动 slogan and term .
in recent years , he is replete with his mediocre ideas : “ the global war on terror ” , “ the global war on terror , ” “ the middle east partnership ” ( 伙伴关系 ) , “ the middle east , and north africa ” – the “ dialogue of the middle east ” – is “ democratic support . ”
the latest fantasy of the recent “ new middle east project ” ( nme ) , in which he fought israel and hezbollah at war with israel , is being hailed as a “ new middle east plan ” in which israel , egypt , jordan , and saudi arabia are supported as a regional order .
but , as he put forward after the attacks in new york and washington five years ago , the “ new middle east plans ” are in trouble from the start .
secretary of state condoleezza rice announced that the plan was accompanied by an immediate ceasefire in lebanon .
she is right to choose the new plan to make the new plan work , with thousands of civilians living in israel effectively but relentless , but 无情 , innocent , and 身负重伤 .
the “ new middle east initiative ” is deeply unsettling to three arab partners , all of which are eager to distance themselves from the us .
saudi arabia , after nearly two weeks of silence , finally announced that $ 500 million to rebuild lebanon ’ s devastated regional areas , and the saudis pledged $ 1 billion to support lebanon ’ s imperiled currency .
egypt ’ s 政权 gamal mubarak has followed the fourth week of the war , and gamal mubarak ’ s gamal mubarak has followed the country ’ s lead .
the us , for its part , is notorious for the middle east ’ s 举手投足 , even for longstanding clients and friends .
at a time when lobbying for a united nations ceasefire is lobbying , bush and rice stressed that they must respond to “ the root causes of the problem ” by using a security council resolution .
of course , for the us and israel , the root cause is hezbollah , which must be eliminated , at least disarmament , forcing hezbollah ’ s fighters away from towns and jewish settlements in northern israel .
while this demand is reasonable , the rest of the middle east – indeed , the world , even in europe – has made israel ’ s hardline arrogance , as well as america ’ s blind support for it .
both the united states and israel have called un 1559 un resolution 1559 , which requires disbanding all non-governmental militias in lebanon and directing government forces to the southern border .
for years , however , the us and israel have never issued any commentary on the number of other un resolutions , which could be traced back to the 49 resolution of 1947 , which calls for the palestinian state ’ s palestinian land to be divided , and the arab and jewish states were established .
these and other resolutions , seeking to change the palestinians ’ injustice , have all been ignored .
for that reason , the three billion arabs and more than one billion muslims are not the “ final roots ” of the middle east war .
as the leader of hezbollah has described , “ hezbollah is just a product of chronic injustice . ”
the root causes of conflict are probably not just one – a different side .
the pain of analyzing which side is more severe or deeply embedded is no longer any consequence .
in fact , the endless debate over grievances will only make the parties look bigger .
the long overdue un resolution 1701 will likely show that all parties are tired or never endured internationally .
this is good news for all parties , giving them an opportunity to address their respective causes .
seizing this opportunity requires that not blindly arrogance .
in the wake of the fire of fire , the boundary between force and the limits of force , it needs to be put in place for the other , rather than blindly stupid .
but it is not long before the tragic tragedy of the middle east ’ s greatest peacemakers , anwar sadat and yitzhak rabin , was left to us .
in a short period of calm , fanatics from either side could jump to the fore , with an absolute madness 重新点燃 the war against the war , destroying the expectations of a permanent peace .
after the mdgs
cambridge – in 2000 , 189 countries accepted the united nations millennium declaration , which included a series of concrete initiatives called the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) .
these ambitious initiatives – from halving poverty and reducing maternal mortality to three-quarters of all children – should be completed by the end of 2015 .
as the deadline approaches , development experts are debating new issues : what happens next ?
almost certainly , the mdgs will not be realized until the end of 2015 , but there were significant successes in several areas .
for example , the goal of reducing extreme poverty by half ( measured by the number of people living on less than $ 1.25 per day ) is likely to be achieved ahead of schedule , with china ’ s significant growth contributing .
at the same time , there is no evidence that these successes are the result of the mdgs themselves .
china ’ s history of greatest poverty reduction has been followed by domestic policy , which was preceded by the millennium declaration and the mdgs .
needless to say , however , the mdgs were a public-relations victory , not to diminish their role .
like all worthwhile pr efforts , the mdgs helped raise awareness , attract attention , and mobilize action .
they have expanded global dialogue on development issues and determine the themes of dialogue .
indeed , the most obvious implication of the mdgs may be the flow of aid to poor countries .
charles 肯尼 and andy 萨姆纳 of the washington center for global development have shown that the mdgs not only stimulate aid flows , but also targeted aid flows to smaller , poorer countries , and more specific areas like education and public health .
aid , however , is not directly related to performance and effectiveness , and it is far more difficult to understand whether aid is achieved .
the mdgs include eight goals , 21 targets , and 60 indicators .
many critics pointed to these 数量化 targets and indicators to doubt that their direction and measures are wrong , leading to a shift away from other equally important areas .
but these complaints do not capture the point .
any specific and enforceable goal requires detecting the results , while setting clear targets is the best way to test the results .
but there is a core paradox that plagues the mdgs .
the millennium declaration was a compact between developed and poor countries .
poor countries pledged to rebalance their development efforts , and developed countries pledged to support them , technology , and market channels .
but , oddly , only the last one in eight goals is about “ global cooperation , ” whereby developed countries can and should do what they should .
even here , the mdgs have failed to set targets for financial aid or other advanced countries ’ assistance , which contrasts sharply with specific poverty-related targets for developing countries .
what is clear is that the internet ’ s use of the development program – institutions that report on the progress of the mdgs – is the internet ’ s use .
why do we need global measures to convince developing countries to do what is best ?
nor is it clear that poverty reduction and human development should be the primary responsibility of these governments , regardless of the mdgs .
of course , it is true that these countries ’ governments often pursue different goals for political , military , and other reasons .
but it is wishful thinking to believe that they can change course by international declarations that lack enforcement mechanisms .
if the development issue is what we have in education , it is that real reform can not be the result of donors ’ money , let alone the promise of a 虚无 funding .
equally problematic , the mdgs implicitly assume that we know how to achieve the development of small targets , only resources and political will .
but even if it is the new policymakers , it is doubtful that he will handle ( say , ) a sustained increase in secondary education and lower maternal mortality .
many development economists will say that there must be significant improvements in governance and political institutions before major goals can be achieved .
the most advanced aid in developed countries is to provide an enabling environment for the benefit of developing countries that are willing and able to exploit it .
these considerations clearly provide the direction of the next mdgs .
first , a new global compact should focus more directly on the responsibilities of developed countries .
second , it should emphasize the development of aid and trade outside of the country ’ s development prospects ( if not more ) .
these policies should include efforts to improve the carbon tax and other efforts to improve climate change , increase the number of working visas for poor countries , and reduce arms sales to developing countries , reduce arms sales to the developing world , reduce support for repressive regimes , and improve the sharing of 金融信息 .
note that most of these measures are actually intended to reduce the impact of aid in developed countries – such as climate change , military conflict , and financial crime .
the case for “ no harm ” in medicine is also a good principle .
developing such a new target will not be easy .
but most of these measures do not require money , and the mdgs suggest that setting targets can be used to mobilize action in advanced countries .
if the international community is willing to invest in ambitious new public-relations programs , it is good to focus on potential gains than the most .
chasing the promised land
london – at the height of the arab uprisings last spring , many europeans were gripped by a desperate vision of a large influx of migrants .
this is not the case , but this fear has fueled strong anti-immigrant populism , obscuring an important new trend : immigration in europe and the us largely stalled .
for many countries , immigrants abroad are more immigrants than they are arriving , largely because the economic crisis has caused jobs in the west .
this regression is one of the most egregious places in 2011 ( and for two years before 2011 ) , and data are startling .
consider spain , where its residents will shrink by more than 500,000 by 2020 .
by contrast , from 2002 to 2008 , spain ’ s population grew by 700,000 annually , mainly owing to immigration .
trends in other parts of europe are similar .
while the fact that this fact is unlikely to keep opponents of immigration quiet , it has given countries more room to repair and strengthen badly damaged institutions so that they are subject to new immigrants .
while rapidly aging western countries can not attract the migrants they need , they have also left millions of migrants who have already moved to this end .
and detentions and deportations are being detained at times .
at the same time , the international community has not protected large populations of vulnerable migrants , such as the millions of people who have recently been in trouble in north africa .
needless to say , rising anti-immigrant populism must be contained .
but opinion polls show that people ’ s attitudes are less religious than religion , and that ethnic , ethnic , and religious .
political parties in countries like france , switzerland , and the netherlands have succeeded in launching a movement of migrants .
moreover , from 亚拉巴马 to hungary , governments everywhere are in law , weakening the rights of migrants .
recently , italy adopted a harsh “ emergency ” bill against immigration , which would be treated as a crime .
anti-immigrant rhetoric in politics has entered the mainstream of political discourse .
europe ’ s leaders flock to their own feet and declare that multiculturalism is dead .
dutch politicians geert wilders , who is not part of the formal coalition , have been charged with charges of incitement to anti-muslim animus , more than others .
in the united states ’ border , 壕沟 are 短吻鳄 , and 带电 border fences , which show the current presidential election .
such attacks on migrants may bring some immediate political benefits , but the end result would inevitably be a social divide , and social cohesion has been severely affected by economic crisis .
the growing discrimination in employment , housing , and education will not only affect migration and its descendants , but also to our entire society .
given stagnant immigration , we now have a window of opportunity to overcome these shortcomings .
exposing the mistakes of migrants – for example , most immigrants illegally enter or immigrant – is a good start .
this is a useful explanation for the prosperity and economic growth of almost all oecd members .
if the west and the rest of the world ( for example , japan ) are aging without having to make the migration , they will be powerless : the baby boomers will retire over the next 20 years .
the eu ’ s labor force will shrink by nearly 700,000 workers over the next 40 years , without significant net immigration , and european economies and social-security systems will remain powerless .
the priorities are clear .
we need better understanding of how our economies will evolve in the coming decades , and to redesign our educational systems , thereby cultivating workers with useful skills .
moreover , in a place where immigrants are clearly needed , we must be able to recognize , welcome , and protect them , and integrate them into us .
at the same time , our basic institutions – schools , police , and courts – must be realigned to reflect and respond to diversity in our communities , which is now real .
countries must learn to work together to achieve these goals , and few will be able to achieve it .
if our toolbox were empty , we can do little or nothing .
but examples of smart migration initiatives abound .
canada and the philippines , for example , have agreements that protect temporary rights for temporary workers .
sweden has already passed legislation to simplify administrative procedures for companies that need foreign workers .
there is also an important progress toward ensuring that children ’ s children receive the education needed to become formal citizens .
despite the economic crisis and populism , progress has been made worldwide .
in june , the international labor organization ’ s member states unanimously adopted the domestic workers convention , which would significantly increase the protection of vulnerable labor groups – most of them immigrants .
at the same time , the global forum on migration and development in 2007 quickly became an important avenue for increased knowledge and partnerships .
the reason for an increasing international cooperation is simple : countries around the world are affected by immigration , with migrants arriving and their residents moving abroad simultaneously .
in fact , roughly one-third of migrants are now flowing between developed countries ; one-third of migrants move across developing countries ; only one-third of immigrants are flowing between developing and developed countries .
skilled workers , such as bankers and engineers , are flocking to china .
mexico , known as the main emigration exporter , now has millions of migrants from central america .
millions of people in southeast asia risk working in the middle east , but millions more cross the region into the region .
the list goes on .
on immigration , we are all in the same boat , and that boat is leaky .
starting in 2012 , countries must redouble their efforts to address this problem .
an unprecedented future
jerusalem – when i nearly nine years old , there is no time to think about any decision with the past .
all of today ’ s major developments are unprecedented .
experts have studied the past , but they were constrained by old paradigms and can not see the future .
today , the world has a dynamic complexity , based on science , rapid shifts in the global economy that makes so many phenomena intertwined , so that we can not be predicted by linear projections of the past .
the only certainty is that the future will be shaped by scientific progress and innovation , but scientific progress and innovation are impossible .
thus , traditional powers and leaders are weakening ; in today ’ s global economy , innovators , not politicians , have the greatest influence .
global companies want to do business around the world , weakening not only sovereignty , but also racism and prejudice , and dramatically suppress nationalism .
this transformation gave the world a generation of young people , more technologically savvy than older generations , with social networks that break the boundaries of territory , language , and government .
the young leaders of facebook and google are more global influence than many politicians and generals .
these young people are also leaders of political protest movements .
the “ arab spring , ” the tent demonstrations in israel , the “ occupation wall street , ” and russia ’ s great marches are not a clash of civilizations , but a generational battle .
the young generation understands that the current pattern of state and economic functioning is lagging behind the new era .
but , rather than pursuing the “ political 浪人 ” of the current awakening , they do not push for a liberal agenda , but instead impose another form of coercion .
in the arab world , radical islamists are hijacking the young generation ’ s movements , stealing the fruits of revolution .
israel is responding positively to the young generation ’ s voluntary , but not intervening in arab affairs .
our hearts are with the insurgent youngsters , who support their right to freedom and performance , choose their leaders , and earn their own lives .
israelis expect that our country is no longer the only democracy in the region , because it was an isolated island of prosperity in poverty .
but we also have realistic concerns : extremists with good political organizations are seeking to win control by voting against a looser liberal movement , thereby preventing peace and stability .
fundamentalist radicals can not provide realistic solutions to the region ’ s fundamental problems .
today ’ s social change is threatening their lives – discrimination against women and banning modern education .
but only profound reforms of traditional authority can pave the way to freedom and growth .
israel can serve as a model for the pursuit of economic prosperity and social freedom , because israel ’ s success can be explained entirely by nothing .
we returned to our homeland , with rich histories of natural resources .
israel is only one resource : human capital .
so we invest in education and science , and today we have the world ’ s highest percentage of scientists and patents per capita .
95 % of our agriculture is hi-tech .
we use less food to yield more food than the rest of the world .
israel can do what other countries can do .
as long as we are willing to do so , we would gladly help .
with peace , we can build a region that hopes , development , and success .
in particular , we must do everything to end the conflict with the palestinians .
israel is not born to the nation-state , nor is it israel ’ s fate .
we are genuinely willing to see the establishment of a palestinian state that would live peacefully with the jewish state of israel .
for our part , peace is both a moral goal and a national security strategy , because resolving conflicts would help to stabilize regional stability through both and trying to manipulate the current mass movement .
the international community can support our efforts by providing incentives to countries choosing freedom and progress .
iran , in particular , is a source of moral corruption , with extremist forces , reform of the reform forces , and a clampdown on the legitimate syrian people who are fighting for freedom and fighting for a free and fighting syria .
iran also uses its proxies to instigate terror against moderates in the palestinian authority , lebanon , and iraq .
if iran succeeds in achieving its nuclear weapons program , its leaders will be able to deter the middle east and provoke more extremism and violence .
if iran continues to turn its way , israel will resolutely defend itself .
the threat , however , is not only israel ; iran is the danger of a global peace and stability .
democracies have declared that it will not tolerate iran ’ s possession of nuclear weapons ; democracy should be determined to fulfill that promise , and that it can not wait until it moves .
in addition to the short-term challenges of the day , we all have a responsibility to revolutionize our approach to future generations ’ preparedness .
in an era that has virtually no connection between the past and the future , it will need to be made available to all children through education .
today ’ s educators should inspire children ’ s creativity and creativity .
the same is true of freedom of expression .
i write this in the 88th year of my life , but i am not talking about my experience .
instead , the role of experience is overestimated , often discouraging the courage needed to face tomorrow and build an unprecedented new world .
there is no need to look back at the future .
against simplification
new york – the united states is good enough to make things simpler .
but it is a global trend that has emerged as a global trend , with the 简单化 of jeans and blue blue .
with this unstoppable change , our daily life is accelerating , and it is clear that life is not so much better .
pragmatism seems to have become a common feature of our era ’ s complex dilemmas .
it is always tempting for too long , making many effective choices ignored and blocked .
the harm of this trend is not even greater than the commercialization of art .
the current cultural world has a great deal of “ companies ” thinking – from a financial standpoint to support for the support of 发行商 , 制作商 , and other artistic managers – that make it seem false that even a widely praised concept of competition seems false .
imagine a scenario in which 普鲁斯特 , 卡夫卡 , 穆西 , 福克纳 , and borges ’ s competition for a best-selling market would be a case in point .
culture is a necessary feature of 快节奏 life , and we have been temporarily freed from the political context of chaos ; and we have recovered our spiritual resources .
the great book , music , and paintings are not just 真善美 schools , but also our own discoveries of our own self – that is , to make our potential change , complete our potential , and even our interlocutors .
if that cushion and a sanctuary were steadily reduced and eroded by the “ product ” of some reputable markets , we will become a permanent slave in the world , with the 沉沦 of advertising packaged with routine themes .
i have been thinking again about these old but seemingly intractable questions that my friend , a great writer , is not often present in today ’ s vibrant american 文坛 .
i believe that the theme of his work , style , and reaction is a description of our simplistic world .
the novel , 名叫 格里斯 , is the author .
the book was passionate in europe , but it was too late for the great work of the twentieth century to get into the us and never received attention .
according to the united nations , the number of literary translations in the us today and greece is greece , and greece is only one in ten countries .
foreign books are thought to be too “ complicated , ” meaning that literature is a simple way to deal with a simple topic with a simple way of dealing with a best-selling market , and for advertising , accessibility .
the center for malala ’ s book was the fate of a group of italian communists , who went to yugoslavia after world war ii to help build socialist societies , but in the conflict between stalin and tito .
they were arrested for their loyalty ; and when they were finally allowed to return to italy , they refused .
the book ’ s plot spans two centuries of revolution .
then , suddenly ,
the “ fall of the party , ” the “ fall of the party , ” was a huge 海面 of the surface and the south china sea , leaving a mess and stranded all boats .
how can you figure out how you can find the pain when the ocean is wiped out by a vast swath of the ocean and becomes a 滩涂 ?
the earth has become a cumbersome child , but one can not find a second planet and no second heaven . ”
the people who live in their own faith will face their own faith without a collective illusion that he will be forced to fend off on the waste ; and a 世界 world tells us something about the 放逐 of the modern world and the complex and contradictory issues that it contains .
greenspan ’ s novel is not just a great literary achievement , but a profound link to the dangers we face today , especially from mumbai to oslo , in the name of “ heterodox ” jihad .
all extremism is searching for a new consensus , seeking a lost illusion of solidarity , and finding a new hope for renewal ?
is it possible to forget the day of 9/11 , when the bloody century of hatred and destruction brought back a bloody , 仇恨 power ?
is there a “ heroic ” figure of our current nightmare among osama bin laden , the bloody 哈马斯 armed forces , or other 困兽 , such as 麦克 , kaczyński , and the recent barrage of mohamed breivik ?
is this a “ rebel ” of excessive globalization , cacophony , and a gloomy reality ?
if so , their barbaric behavior must be carefully vetted – both to examine their historical histories and to study their relations with our modernity – rather than label them a “ monster ” ( though it is inevitable ) .
the new religious radicals are fighting in the name of their different god , just as fascism , nazism , and communism have been in the name of decades ago .
greenspan ’ s new protagonist is a multiple insurgent actor : el salvador , a member of the communist concentration camps in el salvador , and the 如约 of the 约 国王 , who has been forced to live in a deep and unpredictable , 短命 , 冰岛 .
the “ show of excellence ” is a multifaceted , 信息量 , and 空虚 form of human soul , its wounds , and its unpredictable dynamic and unpredictable dynamic .
this is a fantastic story that tells the clash between ideals and reality ( or , rather , utopia and human nature ) , which tells a story of faith and betrayal .
it is also a rich literary achievement of the original literary achievement of today ’ s consumerist ethic .
the novel is not to deny simplification , and it also repudiates today ’ s prevailing spirit of information and literature , reality and creativity , and best-selling works and best-selling works .
an agenda for resolving us-china conflict
new haven – there is a pressing question to address the conflict between the united states and china , where president donald trump ’ s upcoming presidential summit with president donald trump and president xi jinping will be at the top of the upcoming summit in buenos aires .
the alternative poses serious risks for both sides : escalating trade wars , cold war , and even a real war .
these risks can be avoided , but only if both leaders are willing to make a principled compromise .
there is no doubt that a serious conflict has existed .
contrary to the claims of the us , the problem is not the excessive bilateral trade deficit between the world ’ s two largest economies .
the main concern is the macroeconomic imbalances afflicting both countries : china saves too much , while the us saves too little .
in 2017 , the us had merchandise trade deficits with 102 countries , while china has trade surpluses with 169 countries in 2016 .
if only a portion of the multilateral imbalance between the deficit countries or surplus countries ’ multilateral imbalances is a part of the multilateral imbalance , the trade imbalance would be the only outcome .
for the us , this will lead to higher imports – similar to the role that it plays to consumers .
for china , this means increasing export penetration for other markets .
focusing attention on bilateral trade imbalances ignores the possibility of a classic struggle for codependency .
to be sure , china has long relied on the us as a major source of external demand for its export-oriented economy .
but the us also needs to import low-cost goods from china to keep its income limited ; the us also relies on china as the largest foreign purchasers of us treasuries to help balance its long-standing government budget deficit .
and , as the third-largest and fastest-growing export market in the us , china has become an increasingly important source of demand for us firms .
the codependency framework is important because it emphasizes joint resolution and compromise .
as in human relationships , economic dependence can undermine stability and lead to devastating consequences .
when one partner changes course , another sense of response to a 伙伴 partner is likely to be powerful .
at this stage , china has played a role in transforming its growth model from manufacturing to services , shifting from exports to internal consumption , and shifting from imported technology to indigenous innovation .
at the same time , china has shifted from surplus saving to saving absorption , which has left it less likely to lend to the us deficit partner .
unsettling americans feel threatened by their partners , because this partner is changing the relationship .
while trump ’ s actions on these threats are far more radical than his predecessors , there is no doubt that america ’ s bipartisan sentiment on china is now reaching a high degree .
according to a 爱 survey conducted in september 2018 , an 80 % of republicans – who have long been the largest proponent of free trade – believe that raising tariffs would be good for the us .
the most influential republicans , such as vice president mike pence and former treasury secretary henry paulson , have warned that a new cold war with china is possible , and the most influential democrats agree that china has abandoned its responsibilities as a global stakeholder .
in an era of ever-escalating threats and counter-threats , the need for compromise must not be ignored .
trump and xi ’ s upcoming meeting offer an opportunity to redefine the us-china conflict and become an opportunity for the world ’ s two major economies to confront .
four possible avenues are needed .
market access : a decade of tortuous negotiations , the us-china bilateral investment agreement ( bit ) is now facing a breakthrough .
both sides need concessions .
the bilateral investment agreement in the us would increase the ownership of foreign direct investment by multinational corporations by both countries , eliminating controversial joint-venture mechanisms in china , and the us has long insisted that such joint arrangements have become a mechanism for forced technology transfer .
the bilateral investment agreement will also expand ownership of china ’ s ownership of us assets – and thus to challenge anti-china regulations recently adopted by the us commission on foreign investment .
saving : both countries need to commit to responsible macroeconomic adjustments .
the us needs to save more , reversing the reckless and reversible trajectory of last year ’ s huge tax cuts .
rebuilding saving and non-tariff is the most effective strategy to reduce trade deficits with china or any other trading partner .
at the same time , china needs to save less , using the huge amounts of money it accumulated to build the country ’ s social safety net , which is essential to a consumer-led rebalancing .
cyber security : the digital area is a battleground for the information age , and us president barack obama and xi have clearly failed to mitigate the ongoing tensions between cyber espionage , hacking , and disruption in september 2015 .
dialogue : the two presidents met again after the earlier and at mar-a-lago mar-a-lago meeting , with no doubt being fortunate .
those gatherings follow more formal arrangements , such as strategic and economic dialogue .
but all of these efforts are not in the dark , but they lack substance .
a permanent secretariat working on key policy issues ( including data sharing , joint research , and public-private consultation ) will be a more productive step .
given the recent contentious developments between the us and china , it is difficult to see a meaningful breakthrough on both sides .
a substantial list of substance points to test any deal that trump and xi could achieve .
the world is watching .
the age of 不确定性
berlin – 2017 marks the 40th anniversary of the publication of john kenneth galbraith ’ s age of uncertainty .
forty years later , it is worth looking back and reminding us that our readers have much to do with uncertainty and his readers .
in 1977 , while galbraith was writing the book , the world was still reeling from the first opec oil-price shock , and no one knows that there will be no second shock ( later ) .
the us is facing a growth slowdown , accelerating inflation , and stagflation , which has raised questions about policymakers ’ competence and the adequacy of their models of economic models .
at the same time , efforts to rebuild the bretton woods international monetary system have failed , with a shadow over international trade and global growth prospects .
for all of these reasons , the global age of stability and predictability that is consistent with the third quarter of the twentieth century seemed to be sudden , with a period of heightened uncertainty .
in 1977 , that was the case .
but , judging from the 2017 perspective , the uncertainty of 1977 is almost enviable .
in 1977 , there was no president donald trump .
jimmy carter may not be the best president in american history , but he does not threaten to take action that makes the entire global system dangerous .
he did not turn his back on international responsibilities like nato and the world trade organization .
nor did carter declare war on the fed , or the fed board , which is sympathetic to his re-election , wants to sacrifice his re-election .
instead , he appointed paul volcker , a central pillar of monetary stability , for the fed board .
and while carter failed to balance the federal budget successfully , he did not have a mess .
it remains to be seen whether trump would levy tariffs on chinese goods , repeal the north american free trade agreement , and put the fed board on its own board .
it is possible to be confident that the bad catastrophe is possible .
who knows what will happen ?
by today ’ s standards , carter is the embodiment of predictability .
in 1977 , moreover , the prospects for european integration were rosy .
denmark , ireland , and the most prominent british european community have just joined the european community .
the european community attracts new members , not lose them .
moreover , in order to support the common market , the european community has just established the regional monetary system , and was named as a “ tunnel . ”
although this is far from perfect monetary system , there is a very positive character : countries can leave in difficult economic times and rejoin when the outlook revives .
by contrast , in 2017 , negotiations over brexit will continue to be a dark cloud over the european union .
how these talks will proceed , how long they will be , we can only speculate .
moreover , the main problems of brexit ’ s decision – whether other countries will follow suit and , indeed , the eu itself – are far from resolved .
at the same time , the european monetary edifice is still on ice .
the eurozone is neither enough to attract more members , nor is it flexible enough to give temporary concessions to distressed members ( that is , floating ) .
in 1977 , uncertainties stemming from the uncertainty of emerging markets were not in the air .
developing countries in latin america and east asia are growing , and they are increasingly dependent on the currency center ’ s foreign-currency loans .
china remains largely isolated from the debate .
and , even in the third world , developing countries are very small enough to drag down the global economy .
today ’ s situation is very different .
the situation in china , brazil , or turkey is not confined to china , brazil , or turkey .
on the contrary , these countries ’ circumstances will have the most significant impact on the world economy , as emerging markets have contributed to the bulk of global growth in recent years .
china has a corporate-debt problem , and the government ’ s commitment to adjusting its economic structure is uncertain .
turkey has a large current-account deficit , one erratic president , and an unstable geopolitical neighborhood .
and if political scandals can be exported , brazil will have a clear comparative advantage .
while the era of uncertainty is about how much it is in 1977 , it captured the thrust of the age .
but if galbraith wrote that book in 2017 , he might call the 1970s the era of certainty .
europe ’ s europe ?
/ – europe ’ s europe in the euro crisis is europe ’ s europe ?
during the euro crisis , the european union ’ s power seemed to be shifting to the national capitals , particularly berlin .
but , while germany ’ s 转内 , france , and the united kingdom ’ s 独立 , the great story of the united kingdom ’ s foreign policy is , in the great narrative of europe ’ s foreign policy .
in europe , this important step is not only in berlin , paris , or london , but also in stockholm or warsaw .
major foreign-policy issues on the european threshold - whether in egypt , belarus , or now syria – are welcome european initiatives , regardless of where they originate .
germany , whether in foreign policy or economically , can play a decisive leadership role in the eu .
for example , it joined poland , leading the eu to try to build a coordinated relationship with russia and extend to serbia .
but , on other issues , such as libya , germany has failed to use room for maneuver in the face of other eu member states .
so the answer today to henry kissinger ’ s famous question of who wants to talk to the european dialogue should not be german chancellor angela merkel .
moreover , germany seems to be a “ geo-economic power ” driven by demand for its export sector .
with its economic means , germany is gradually pursuing its european partners .
at the same time , france has suffered from the loss of power on economic issues in germany , which still plays a decisive role in foreign policy .
france has guided libya and tried to impose tougher sanctions on iran , just as it provides support for the un in côte d ’ ivoire .
but france ’ s unilateral approach often makes it hostile to its european partners .
in september , for example , french president nicolas sarkozy seized a common european position on the palestinian statehood vote .
in other words , even if france leads , it does not always use such constructive ways .
in addition to playing a decisive role in libya , the uk has become increasingly marginal in european foreign policymaking .
even before the european union summit in december 2011 , it vetoed the creation of a “ fiscal union ” proposed by eurozone countries , whose influence on key foreign policy in europe is gradually diminishing .
britain has supported the eu ’ s eastern enlargement , with closer ties with turkey and the development of africa , but has not launched any creative initiatives to support or change the eu debate .
on other issues , such as “ strategic partners ” – particularly for china and russia – the united kingdom is often a supporter .
the “ big three ” is increasingly pursuing their narrow national interests , and other eu member states are becoming leaders in important foreign-policy areas .
for example , sweden – the country ’ s 14th largest population among its member states , with 8 % of gdp – is far more influential under prime minister 赖因 bildt and foreign secretary carl bildt .
last year , its annual support for north africa increased by a million ( 欧元 million ) , a week after the revolution in tunisia , which suggested a european delegation to support democratic will , and the un ’ s early and strong supporters in supporting the libyan uprising .
poland , too , has become a foreign-policy leader .
prime minister donald tusk and foreign minister radek sikorski , in particular , have taken a proactive approach to russia ’ s strategy for russia , which has largely overcome disagreements with germany and is now working to develop a genuinely broad approach .
poland also led europe ’ s defense ( though it refuses to participate in military intervention in libya ) .
this reflects the strength of poland ’ s economy , which is expected to grow by more than 3 % in 2012 – faster than most of the eu .
germany may be paying more attention at times of crisis , but last year ’ s situation confirmed that the eu would have the greatest impact and influence when small countries joined the great powers .
for example , for iran ( except for greece ) , europe has a clear policy and coherent stance , such as the oil embargo .
thus , poland and sweden : europe needs your leadership .
but it is not enough for a more than 500 million citizens .
the rest of the eu needs to make a real and influential case for europe ’ s foreign policy and influence .
a german glimmer in the global boom
in 2004 , the world economy grew at 5.1 % , the fastest in the last 28 years .
while this indicator has deteriorated slightly in the first three quarters of 2005 , it has increased again in the final quarter .
in 2005 , growth is expected to grow by about 4.3 % , and it is expected to grow in 2006 , which would be a period of rapid growth in the global economy unseen since the 1970 ’ s .
but this boom is not balanced .
in the united states , the number of experts on the status quo has declined . indeed , most people believe that the economic situation will worsen after six months .
the same is true of eastern europe , the ex-soviet states , and latin america .
surprisingly , europe , unlike in 2004 , looks like the rest of the world in the first half of 2004 .
growth in the 15 “ old ” eu members of the eu-15 in 2005 , though only 1.5 % , is expected to accelerate to 2.1 % in 2006 .
indeed , the economic performance of eu member states is huge .
italy is left behind , just 1.1 % , and irish rockets will not fall , and its real gdp will grow by about 4.8 % , on average , compared to smaller eu countries .
this is not surprising , because eu institutions have largely helped to overcome small vulnerabilities by giving small countries a large economic advantage , and these large economic advantages have been dominated by major powers .
but even germany , the eu ’ s largest economy , is rising .
according to monthly surveys by 70 companies , ifo ’ s german economic climate indicator jumped in the second half of 2005 , reaching the highest level since the year 2000 , the business community ’ s assessment of the current situation and expectations .
after five years of stagnation , the german economy has finally begun to recover .
it is a drive for economic recovery , which , as the world ’ s second-largest exporter , has benefited enormously from global prosperity .
exports grew by 6.2 % in 2005 , and are expected to reach 7.4 % in 2006 .
but , as we saw in 2004 and 2005 , exports will not be enough to create sustainable growth if domestic demand fails .
the good news for germany is that investment demand is growing .
the second half of 2005 was already good , and ifo expects investment in equipment to grow by 6 % in 2006 .
with years of contraction , investment in construction will grow slightly .
overall investment growth is expected to reach 2.9 % , which is weak in terms of past standards , but promising relief for the wounded german mood .
and , for germany , any investment growth is essential , according to the oecd ’ s latest statistics , which account for the world ’ s lowest share of national income .
even if germany lags behind the global economy , such investment demand will contribute to gdp growth .
that figure pales in comparison to most other countries .
indeed , all eu countries , except italy and the netherlands , will grow faster .
but everything is relative : germany ’ s trend growth rate is just 1.1 % , and has been the slowest growth in the eu since 1995 .
even germany , with its disappointing past , is now experiencing an economic boom .
germany ’ s unemployment rate has risen since 1970 , even as unemployment has declined slightly in 2006 , from 4.8 million to 4.7 million .
good economic data will underpin the good impressions of the new government , the volcker government , which helped to reach a compromise between the eu and the eu in 2007 ( which would add two billion to germany ’ s annual budget ) .
in fact , the government , by announcing strong measures to consolidate germany ’ s own public finances , may well contribute to good economic data , a prerequisite for investor confidence .
according to the government , a substantial tax increase would put the fiscal deficit below 3 % of gdp in europe ’ s stability and growth pact in 2007 , when germany has exceeded that limit .
the real test for the german government is the labor market .
most observers now believe that germany needs a similar tax deductible like the us .
in germany , this is called “ activating social aid ” or “ composite wages , ” but the principle is the same : the state should pay less money for the people who work .
in his inaugural address in the german bundestag , her government announced that her government would implement this system in 2006 .
if they act , and she really will have to reform the incentive structure of germany ’ s welfare state , the result would be higher employment and structural economic growth .
in the long run , this will be more promising for the eu and the global economy than in germany , which is currently driven by demand-driven growth .
will the old age be the norm ?
milan – the right-wing populism that has emerged in many western democracies in recent years may not just be a blip in the political landscape .
beyond the great recession and immigration crises that create fertile ground for populist parties , the aging of the west will continue to guide political power toward populists .
older voters have proved to be sympathetic to nationalist movements .
older britons who voted for brexit are higher than their share of the population , while older americans took the presidency to trump .
poland ’ s law and justice party , as well as fidesz fidesz in hungary , will not be in power without enthusiastic support from the elderly .
in italy , the league has largely succeeded in exploiting the discontent of northern italy ’ s elderly population .
among today ’ s populists , only marine le pen , the national front ( formerly the national front ) , is likely to rely on younger voters .
by next spring , this 年龄 voting model could affect the outcome of the european parliament .
a recent study points out that older europeans – especially those with less education – are more skeptical about europe ’ s same process than the younger generation .
this is surprising , given that memories of world war ii and its legacy are more well known for the older generations .
yet their suspicion of the eu ’ s democratic institutions may explain their embrace of authoritarian leaders .
most likely , growing insecurity is pushing the elderly into the arms of populists .
and , in addition to promises of each country ’ s respective features , nationalist parties have committed to containing global forces that have disproportionately affected the elderly .
older voters , for example , tend to have more fear of immigration , because they often rely more on traditional values and 自给自足 communities .
likewise , globalization and technological progress regularly hit traditional or legacy industries , which are more likely to employ older people .
the digital economy , dominated by the 人群 population , is pushing older workers into the margins .
but , unlike in the past , crumbling pension systems can no longer absorb such labor-market shocks , with older workers losing into long-term unemployment once they lose jobs .
moreover , pensioners now have reason to worry about their retirement benefits for their children .
young people are frustrated with the socioeconomic systems that are clearly biased toward retirees and increasingly demanding fairer intergenerational redistribution .
for example , the five star movement ( m5s ) , which governs italy ’ s league party , recently proposed a “ citizen ’ s income ” – regardless of age – to all unemployed .
and yet , while right-wing populists have attracted older voters , left-wing populists won their followers .
by supporting right-wing populists , older voters want to return to the time of the country ’ s internal affairs , and that national borders are not so easily crossed .
at the heart of the current nationalist politics is the promise to maintain the status quo – and even return to the mythical past .
so nationalist politicians often resort to nostalgic rhetoric to encourage their older supporters .
trump , for example , has promised to bring jobs back to the 地区 rust belt in the us .
and his attack on illegal immigration , and the travel ban against citizens of major muslim countries , marks his commitment to a “ pure ” american country .
similarly , in continental europe , right-wing populists hope to return to the euro and most of the schengen era before the euro and most of the schengen system .
they often appeal to older voters by lowering their retirement ages and expanding pension benefits ( both of which are the main policy of the league ) .
in the united kingdom , the “ leave ” campaign promises to take charge of those who have been left behind by the age of globalization .
but it also boasted about a free and independent “ global britain . ”
the brexiteers are not new .
in any case , because the current wave of populism is driven by demographics , this trend is unlikely to reach a head anytime soon .
in an increasingly aging society , the political influence of the elderly will grow steadily , but their resilience will decline in rapidly changing economies .
so older voters will seek a growing number of social security , while irresponsible populists are ready to appease them .
how do we respond ?
in order to stem the nationalist tide , mainstream parties urgently need to devise a new social contract that mitigates the growing sense of insecurity among older voters .
they need to strike better balance between openness and protection , innovation , and regulation ; and they need to do so without a populist retreat .
the answer is not to kill global forces , but to make them more acceptable .
citizens of all ages need to be able to cope with current and future shocks .
in this sense , rather than protecting the elderly , it is better to give them power , because most advanced economies can not afford a new interest in such a very large interest group .
moreover , a policy that makes people dependent on some form of external support is morally problematic .
instead , governments should focus on boosting the skills of older workers , creating more opportunities for older and younger generations to work together , and allow disruptors to take on the socioeconomic consequences of their own .
subsidies for the most vulnerable should be the last thing .
in many ways , older voters ’ infatuation with populists is a call for help .
enlightened politicians should respond constructively .
a global agenda for seven billion
new york – next month , a child born later next month will be the 70 citizen of the planet . we will not know what circumstances he will be born .
but we know that the child entered a world of unpredictable and unpredictable change , whether the environment , economics , geopolitics , technology , or the population .
since the creation of the united nations in 1945 , the world ’ s population has tripled , and the population is growing , with population , energy , food , and water stress .
the global economy is also generating pressure : rising unemployment , rising social inequality , and growing new economic power .
none of these trends is linked to the fate and future of today ’ s seven billion people , which can solve the great global challenges of the twenty-first century alone .
the 66th session of the un general assembly is a new opportunity to abandon its narrow short-term interests and commit to cooperation to resolve the long-term imperatives of humanity .
now that all countries are experiencing their own problems , we need to create a global common agenda to help us ensure that the seven billion citizens and our descendants grow up in a world of sustained peace , prosperity , freedom , and justice .
in order to create such a future , my second un secretary general will focus on five global imperatives – five generational opportunities for our current decisions .
in the next five years , we need to create a new vision of sustainable development that is agreed on a binding climate-change agreement .
advancing economic growth , achieving the millennium development goals , and combating climate change will all depend on creating a new energy system for the twenty-first century , and to reach everyone on the planet .
prevention as a framework for international cooperation is a second opportunity .
this year , the un peacekeeping budget , which is $ 8 billion , is able to avoid the remaining money – for example , replacing peacekeeping forces with political mediation .
we know how to do this .
we have seen our record in guinea , kenya , and kyrgyzstan .
the third imperative is to create a safer , more stable world , where we must call for courage to defend democracy , human rights , and peace .
this year marks a year of restoring and ensuring peace in peace – in côte d ’ ivoire , darfur , egypt , and elsewhere – but hatred and killing remain a clear obstacle to our vision of peace .
in the middle east , we must break the stalemate .
palestinians deserve their own state .
israel needs security .
both want peace . the solution could create these outcomes , and the un is a platform for peace .
as in iraq , afghanistan , the democratic republic of congo , sierra leone , democratic governance in the name of all , we will continue to move ahead with nuclear disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation , and we are working to achieve a world of nuclear weapons .
the fourth opportunity is to support a transition state .
the recent dramatic events in north africa and the middle east inspire the global people .
let us make the arab spring a source of hope .
in libya , we are deploying new un support programs to help the country ’ s transitional authorities establish a new government and legal order that meets the aspirations of the libyan people .
syria is a special problem .
for six months , we have seen violence and repression escalating .
the syrian government has repeatedly pledged to implement reforms and listen to people ’ s views , but it has never been implemented .
it is time to take steps .
violence must stop .
the final mission is to work with women and young people .
women do not share more than half of the population , representing a majority of humanity ’ s potential .
we need to embrace women entirely – governments , business , and civil society .
the un has placed a high priority on women ’ s position in the un as a senior priority , and this year , the united nations has been working for the first time in promoting women ’ s rights .
today , seven billion people see the un as a solution to the world ’ s major challenges .
their beliefs and backgrounds differ , but dreams and aspirations are the same .
the future of the planet depends on the concentration of individual talents and universal rights in common cause .
global consensus on terrorism
the first response to the united nations , the first response , could be the 正闹 of 食品 food scandals , as well as the impact of the organization ’ s leadership on the organization ’ s leadership in this year and beyond .
but , beyond investigations , the un is doing more .
the atmosphere pervades the atmosphere – partly because of the scandal , as well as the inability of the united nations to demonstrate its incompetence and ineffectiveness in dealing with rwanda , kosovo , and iraq .
even the un ’ s most ardent supporters are now beginning to recognize that if the un is to contribute important contributions to international peace and security , it must change .
some discussion of reform concerns the un security council ’ s composition .
the security council represents the post-war post-world war ii world war , and how to manage it .
this helps to explain why france , which has already significantly weakened the country ’ s security council , can not .
maintaining the security council ’ s current make-up is impossible , and the need for change is indisputable .
but achieving this goal is extremely difficult to achieve through a path of broad international support .
the great britain and france will resist the replacement of one eu seat , and that it would only exacerbate europe ’ s relative over-representation in the security council .
pakistan would oppose india as a member of the security council ; argentina , chile , and mexico will object to brazil ; nigeria , and vice versa , is likely to oppose the country ’ s emergence as a permanent member of the permanent members .
clearly , determining the security council will require considerable time and political effort .
at the same time , there is important work to be done to strengthen the high-level group , proposed by annan , that all un member states should sign a document that claims that terrorism is no place in today ’ s world .
this is more than the first time you hear .
the international community has been tolerant of terrorism for too long – a reason why non-governmental agencies have sometimes been the reason for the freedom fighters of “ one person , another man ’ s terrorism , ” to achieve political ends in order to achieve political ends .
historians have been widely debated about terrorism in some of the past .
we do not .
modern terrorism is so destructive that we can not afford to support it anymore .
these weapons of mass destruction – nuclear , biological , and chemical weapons – can not be used as an excuse for using them .
moreover , as the terrorist attacks on the united states in 2001 demonstrated , if it were to be used to hurt today ’ s fragile global life , even basic weapons like 纸箱 will become weapons of mass destruction .
terrorism is even less justifiable given the political path available for political ends .
palestinians can negotiate with israel on their future , and will depend on the us , russia , europe , and the united nations .
iraqis have elected their own representatives , and are preparing to write their constitution .
no one seeking a reasonable goal or a readiness to reconcile them can argue that terrorism is his or her party ’ s only option .
some important steps are already being taken around the world to oppose terrorism .
the 12 counter-terrorism conventions and numerous un resolutions call for governments to resist 绑架人质 , hijacking civil aviation , and terrorism .
likewise , the “ special action task task task force , ” created in 1989 by the “ international financial force force , ” launched in 1989 , has been largely focused on combating terrorism .
after the september 11 , 2001 , un security council resolution 242 , which called for countries to refuse to provide safe asylum to terrorists , expressly eliminated any person with the connection to terrorism , banning terrorist recruitment , and 堵住 the terrorists and international organizations .
we need to agree on broad agreement that any deliberate killing of civilians and noncombatants is unacceptable , and that any criminal or subordinate must be punished .
of course , such a convention does not prevent any future terrorist action .
but this is important .
terrorism should be outlawed as slavery was .
doing so would make the government and individuals think twice before they join the terrorist campaign ; they also offer more support for international action against action against terrorism .
we are taught in our lives that even if the target is right , it can not be dismissed .
before more innocent lives are lost , it is time to implement this code .
a global green new deal
nairobi – the global unemployment rate is soaring , bankruptcies are rising , and the stock market has fallen , and it is plausible that abandoning climate change and delaying environmental investment may be justified .
but this would be a mistake , and the impact will soon be realized and will continue for generations .
environmental investments will not only create a burden on the already difficult , struggling global economy , but will give people jobs , orders , and help economies healthy .
today , it is a necessity , and some recognize that , but not all economic planners have such a sense .
a large part of the economic stimulus package that president barack obama ’ s administration has been serving as an economic stimulus package includes a boost in renewable energy , giving rise to a million homes , and improving america ’ s inefficient grid .
these investments could generate some five million “ 绿领 ” jobs , a shot to the construction and engineering industries , and to bring the us back to climate change , as well as to its energy security .
south korea has experienced a rise in unemployment for the first time in five years , but it found green content in the midst of a severe economic downturn .
president lee myung-bak plans to invest $ 三千八百 billion , employing artificial clearing four major rivers and reducing disaster-risk risk through construction and water processing facilities .
other elements of the 李总统 plan include construction of ecologically friendly 运输网络 , such as high-speed rail and a long bicycle lane , and use methane to generate energy from the garbage .
the plan also strongly invested in hybrid vehicles .
china , japan , and the united kingdom also have a “ green new deal ” plan to promote employment .
these programs are equally important for developing countries to create new opportunities when employment , poverty reduction , and an increasingly uncertain commodity price and exports are rising .
the program ’ s 治水 program employs more than 30,000 people , including women , young people , and the disabled , which also saw opportunities in the crisis .
south africa spends roughly $ 60 million annually to eliminate invasive plants that threaten their wildlife , water supplies , important tourism destinations , and farmland .
this program will widen , with more than 40 million tons of invasive invasive plants being harvested for electricity .
as a result , there will be some 500 megawatts of electricity , equivalent to the country ’ s demand for electricity , while creating jobs .
thus , some countries now regard environmental investments in infrastructure , energy systems , and ecosystems as the best way to recover .
others may not be well aware of the potential return on investment in ecosystem services .
these include forest carbon storage or 非洲人 africans who have no electricity .
in early february , the united nations environment programme convened some of the world ’ s major economies to convene a meeting of the world ’ s major economies .
this plan will be adapted to the challenges of different countries , thereby helping world leaders and ministers to formulate stimulus packages that work in many ways .
but , if these stimulus packages were wisely implemented , they will have far-reaching and transformative trends , laying the groundwork for a more sustainable and sustainable green economy in the twenty-first century .
tens of thousands of dollars have already used tens of millions of dollars to cope with the current economic woes , together with tens of thousands of dollars in waiting , which provides a path to a more clever , energy-efficient solution that is more efficient , more efficient , and a loss of biodiversity .
throwing the current bailout blindly into the old industries and the moribund economic model are wasteful and 把 future generations as collateral .
instead , political leaders must use these rare opportunities to invest in innovation , promote sustainable businesses , and encourage new , decent , and long-lasting economic models .
the global growth pact
london – us president barack obama ’ s recent rhetoric about a new “ sputnik moment ” has spoken around the world .
he has proposed a grand plan to raise education , infrastructure , and science , and to make ambitious plans to restore us economic growth with the determination of the moon to implement the moon plan .
over the last decade , the global economy has transformed the world ’ s ten million workers into industrial workers , and , in the run-up to 2011 , it has been left behind by china and the rest of the world in terms of production , exports , and investment .
but growth in the region has also brought unprecedented economic hope for the west .
over the next ten years , the world will be transformed once again by the rise of the asian consumer .
the number of middle class in the world will grow to three billion , too .
this additional demand has created considerable opportunities for growth in europe and europe .
those countries and businesses that can provide a high technical sophistication to asia ’ s two billion consumers and services and services will thrive .
but neither europe nor the us seems ready to take advantage of the best such new markets .
if these asian markets are to take advantage of these asian opportunities , the west must begin to move beyond the invention , innovation , and technology in areas like innovation , innovation , and technology , in fact , unless the west ’ s massive expansion of its investments in projects , science , and technology is needed .
obama ’ s investment plan will likely become a 奠基石 of a formal global agreement , which would not only bring higher levels of growth around the world , but also creates millions of new jobs .
under such an agreement , europe will be able to step up the us “ moon ” initiative by promoting investment – by advancing a structural reform aimed at building digitization , green environmental services , high energy efficiency , and high competitiveness – while china will take the lead .
i believe that such a deal would increase the world economy by about 3 % in 2014 – and lift 100 million people out of poverty .
i raised this plan when i chaired the g-20 in london in 2009 .
i hope that the two sides would commit to a formal strategy that produces more long-term results , not just the rescue programs that are committed to the crisis .
our attention is focused on preventing recession from turning into depression .
i think it is also a good time to create a framework for lasting development .
but , before the conference ended , there was no consensus on a shared development goal , and there was no sufficient political commitment to work together .
since then , the growth rate in the united states and europe has been significantly lower than in its actual potential ( though the rate of unemployment in the world ’ s huge needs ) has risen to close to 10 % ( with youth unemployment rising to 20 % ) .
the global development agenda that failed in 2009 has yet to be completed .
front-loaded public investment could be funded by an enhanced european investment bank .
china is already laying the groundwork for its role in this regard : its 小康 policies ( reducing poverty and expanding the middle class ) will create a billion-dollar market for western goods and services .
if china ’ s consumption accounts for 2-4 % of gdp over the next three years ( if china improves its social safety net , tax cuts , and the average household for housing ) , the us and europe would increase the share of public investment .
if other asian countries can follow and agree to create a platform for exporters , we can create some 50 million jobs .
in fact , critics contend that increasing public investment clashes with the goal of reducing the deficit , and fear that the government will increase interest rates further .
but these critics are wrong to estimate the impact of concentrated investment on deficits .
the imf ’ s recent authoritative evidence suggests that we can be able to maintain deficit reduction while benefiting from the additional investment that the us and european economies need .
according to the imf model , i infer that western countries can boost their long-term gdp growth by raising their level of investment over the last three years .
an annual stimulus plan for the us can contribute to 0.8 % of gdp in the united states , peaking in 2013 , and the same program could increase europe ’ s gdp by 0.4 % in 2013 .
we need to ensure that growth and reduce unemployment do not raise the deficit , and to mobilize the private sector and mobilize capital in recent years .
and it helps to highlight the importance of the g-20 and the imf in achieving global consensus .
the west is ready to be in place in terms of global economic reconstruction .
its good workforce provides world-class goods and services .
but these labor should not be dragged down by policies that willfully led to a decade of slow growth and high unemployment .
if that does not , it is a human tragedy that is a human tragedy .
the global perfect storm
new york – in any direction , finance and economic growth are both 阴云密布 : the eurozone , the us , and china .
indeed , by 2013 , the global economy could be very difficult to find .
first , the eurozone crisis is worsening , owing to the euro ’ s strong fiscal consolidation , which will deepen the recession in many member states , while credit crunch and high oil prices in the periphery are impeding prospects for recovery .
with the contraction of cross-border and interbank credit and the possibility of a disorderly exit from the eurozone in the coming months , the eurozone banking system is falling apart .
moreover , as interest-rate spreads in spain and italy return to an unsustainable peak level , fiscal and sovereign-debt tensions are deteriorating .
in fact , the eurozone is likely to be more than just international aid for banks ( now spain ’ s banks ) , but in the eurozone and the international firewall that is inadequate to withstand full sovereignty in spain and italy .
farther afield in the west , the us economy has performed as well , with a first-quarter growth rate of 1.9 % , far below potential growth .
moreover , in april and may ’ s job growth , the us may be stuck in stagnation by the end of the year .
making matters worse , the risk of a double-dip recession next year is increasing : even if it seems that the 美国 us fiscal cliff is ultimately a secondary drag , the increase in taxes and transfers would weaken growth in disposable income and consumption .
moreover , whether obama or romney won november ’ s presidential election , political gridlock about fiscal adjustment could persist .
thus , the risk of a new fight against the debt ceiling , the risk of government bankruptcy , and downgrades in credit rating will likely depress consumption and business confidence further , dragging back spending and boosting funding to safe assets ( thereby hastening the stock market ) .
in the east , china ’ s growth model is unsustainable , and it could be pushed into recession in 2013 if investment is weak and reforms that are unlikely to boost consumption .
china ’ s new leaders must speed up structural reforms , reduce national saving , and increase consumption as a share of gdp ; but the pace of change among leaders is likely to be insufficient , and the transition to political power may not be smooth .
the economic slowdown in the us , the eurozone , and china has had a major impact on other emerging markets , which are determined by trade and financial linkages with the us and the eu ( that is , “ decoupling ” does not occur ) .
at the same time , the lack of structural reforms in emerging markets and the evolution of state capitalism are hampering their growth and eroding their resilience .
finally , in the middle east , tensions between israel and the us over iran ’ s nuclear proliferation could erupt in 2013 .
the current negotiations may fail , even if tightening sanctions may not stop iran from acquiring nuclear weapons .
these risks have contributed to a slowdown in the economy : countries ’ stock markets are falling , leading to a negative wealth effect on consumption and capital spending .
borrowing costs in heavily indebted countries , credit quotas are crowding out small and medium-size enterprises , and commodity prices are holding back exporters ’ incomes .
the rise in risk aversion is leading economic agents to take a wait-and-see stance , which creates some self-fulfilling effects .
compared to 2008-2009 – when policymakers had ample room for action – the monetary and fiscal authorities ’ approaches to monetary and fiscal authorities are about to run out ( or , more ironic , to get out of hand ) .
monetary policy has hit the wall with zero interest rates and another round of quantitative easing .
indeed , the problems facing the economy and markets are no longer liquid , but credit and solvency crises .
meanwhile , unsustainable budget deficits and high levels of public debt in most developed countries have severely limited room for further fiscal stimulus .
replacing exports with exchange rates when private and public deleveraging erodes the structural problems of the current-account deficit is a zero-sum game .
after all , a country ’ s currency devaluation and improved trade balance will necessarily mean that other countries ’ currencies and the deterioration of the trade balance are deteriorating .
at the same time , the ability to backstop , ring-fence , and bail out banks and other financial institutions is constrained by politics and the inability to absorb more debt in the banking system .
as a result , sovereign risk is becoming a bank risk .
indeed , many countries , especially the eurozone , are shifting more public debt to banks ’ balance sheets .
to avoid a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , fiscal austerity today should be slowing considerably , with the new eu fiscal compact should be accompanied by a growth pact that should be accompanied by debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) , and , even if greece leaves the eurozone , and consider further political integration .
unfortunately , germany is blocking all of these key policy measures , because further economic , fiscal , and banking integration will expose its taxpayers to credit risk .
as a result , the probability of a eurozone disaster is rising .
although the cloud of the eurozone is the largest , this is not the only threat to the global economy .
the hatches is still in check .
a global solution network
new york – there is a great deal of profound change in society .
technological breakthroughs – the steam engine , computers , and the internet – may be leading .
the 理想家 – mahatma gandhi , martin luther king jr. , and nelson mandela – was inspired by justice .
political leaders may also lead the broad reform movement , such as franklin roosevelt and his new deal .
our generation urgently needs another great social change .
this time , we must save the planet from human-induced environmental catastrophe .
we can say that every day we are feeling this challenge .
heat waves , droughts , floods , forest fires , glaciers receding , rivers of rivers , extreme storms , extreme storms , and the frequency of extreme storms are all human activities .
the global economy produces $ 70 trillion in value per year , and is putting unprecedented pressure on the natural environment .
we need new technologies , new behaviors , and ethics that support the future economic development and environmental sustainability .
un secretary-general ban ki-moon is taking this unprecedented challenge – one unique at the crossroads of global politics and society .
at the global level , the un represents the right of the world ’ s citizens – the united nations charter to call it “ the world ’ s 各族人民 ” – and , at the social level , the rights and obligations of all of us .
over the last two decades , governments have failed to offer solutions to environmental challenges .
politicians have failed to implement the treaties adopted by the 1992 earth summit .
ban has understood that the government ’ s strong action remains essential , but he also knows that civil society must play a larger role , especially politicians and politicians who are concerned with vested interests .
to increase the global community ’ s energy , ban has launched an ambitious new global plan that i am delighted to take .
the united nations sustainable development solutions network is a powerful effort to mobilize global knowledge to save the planet .
the idea is to use global knowledge and action networks to identify and demonstrate a new approach to sustainable development worldwide .
该网 will cooperate and support the government , un agencies , civil-society groups , and the private sector .
humans need to learn new ways to produce and use low-carbon energy , sustainably grow food , build livable cities , governance globally , biodiversity , and the atmosphere .
but time is running out .
today ’ s metropolises , for example , have faced dangerous heat waves , rising sea levels , rising levels of extreme storms , dire congested , and air and water pollution .
agricultural regions also need stronger resilience to climate volatility .
as parts of the world design better transportation , energy demand , water attacks , and food supplies , their success should quickly become part of the global knowledge database , enabling other regions to benefit soon .
universities have a special role to play in this new un knowledge network .
fifteen years ago , in 1862 , abraham lincoln created university of “ 授地 ” universities to help local communities improve agriculture and quality of life through science .
today , we need universities worldwide to help their societies address poverty , clean energy , and sustainable food supplies .
by connecting the course and keeping curricula online , universities worldwide can become more effective in finding and promoting science-based solutions based on science-based complex problems .
the global corporate sector also has an important role to play in sustainable development .
today , the corporate sector has two faces .
it is the vanguard of cutting-edge sustainable technologies , pioneering research and development , world-class management of world-class management , environmental sustainability .
at the same time , however , the corporate sector has lobbied aggressively to loosen environmental regulations , reduce corporate tax rates , and avoid the ecological destruction they face .
sometimes the same company operates on both sides .
we urgently need far-sighted companies to join sustainable development solutions .
these companies have a unique role to play in translating new ideas and technologies into early-stage demonstration projects , thereby accelerating global learning cycles .
equally important , we need more critical , respected corporate leaders to put pressure on their peers to stop the environment that could lead to the kind of environmental lobbying and campaign contributions that the government does not make .
sustainable development is the challenge that generations will face , not a new priority .
a reinvention of energy , food , transport , and other systems will take decades , not years .
but the long-term nature of the challenge is not a reason for inaction .
it is precisely because change needs for a long time , and environmental risks are imminent , and we must begin to rebuild our production systems now .
after 2015 , the world will fight against poverty and protecting the environment .
the secretary-general ban ki-moon has launched several global initiatives to help set the new goals set in the post-2015 new goals for the new post-2015 goals .
so it is time for the secretary general to initiate a sustainable network of sustainable development solutions .
not only will the world accept new sustainable development goals , but will also have new global expertise to achieve these vital goals .
a good rate hike for europe
two wrongs are not equal .
simply because european governments have failed to put bread on the table , it does not mean that the ecb can not maintain price stability in the eurozone .
this may sound obvious , but some european politicians are trying to abandon price stability .
for example , italian politicians , for example , would be the least qualified to advocate monetary advice for the ecb , owing to recent low domestic economic conditions .
silvio berlusconi ’ s will , silvio berlusconi , silvio berlusconi ’ s silvio berlusconi silvio berlusconi ’ s silvio berlusconi ’ s silvio berlusconi , has said that the will of italian minister silvio berlusconi ’ s silvio berlusconi , the italian economy ’ s minister of economic growth , would be an illusion that “ if someone pushes on a brake , ” all attempts to promote economic growth would be illusory .
who kidding ?
if there is a brake on the italian growth brake , berlusconi himself .
with no economic reform under his rule , he is now trying to blame italy ’ s economic weakness on the ecb .
yet it is the lack of domestic economic reform that has made italy the least competitive country in the eurozone .
that is even more intense than the usual “ blame game . ”
the pressure on the ecb to raise interest rates is mounting – and berlusconi and his fellow cronies are both a step in the right direction , as well as to allow the ecb to loosen its monetary policy .
rising energy prices , for example , constitute a leading risk contributing to inflation .
but rising energy prices alone will not be enough to make the ecb adjust interest rates .
the key question is the so-called “ second-round effects ” – the rise in crude oil prices that will not lead to increased labor unions .
so far , the european central bank ’ s president , jean-claude trichet , has called it a full trade union within the union ’ s labor unions .
but if that happens , even if growth remains slow , the ecb will have to take steps to raise interest rates .
the good news is that economic growth in the eurozone seems to be rising ( and italy is no exception ) .
although gdp is still low in the second quarter , the eurozone average annual growth rate averaged 0.3 % , but statistics in the third quarter suggest that economic growth is sustained in the second half of the year , just as consumption is a little weaker .
what will the ecb react to the economy ?
some members of the governing council have already maintained low levels of interest rates for more than two years for more than two years .
true , there is no inflation in the short term , but the ecb ’ s monetary policy is more focused on medium-term objectives .
one concern is that the eurozone ’ s money supply is far higher than the european central bank ’ s benchmark , indicating that the excess supply of liquidity has been supply .
as long as economic recovery remains unknown , the ecb will not necessarily raise interest rates to control excess liquidity .
slow growth has silenced the 幽幽 幽幽 of the ecb ’ s governing council , but all of this will change as long as economic recovery is confirmed .
meanwhile , germany ’ s election in september may have surprising implications for the ecb ’ s monetary policy .
angela merkel , the christian democratic candidate , is a reformer , with hope for germany , and for europe ’ s future .
unfortunately , merkel ’ s campaign is difficult in the first place , and the recent far-left left-wing party , which has joined the competition , may have to build a grand coalition between christian democrats and social democrats .
this is bad news for the german economy , because it may delay the rapid run-up in ecb interest rates .
because the parliamentary deadlock that has already existed in parliament weakens the likelihood of reform , companies are slowing off investment , while consumers are more likely to keep their wallets on their own , because official policies are more uncertain than they are now .
on the other hand , the center-right coalition between the christian democrats and the liberal democrats could spur the ecb to act .
this raises a very interesting point .
the ecb ’ s higher interest rates would reassure the public , because the increase in interest rates may mean that the economy has started to recover , and the effects of inflation are being tackled .
in other words , raising interest rates means that good things are beginning to start .
but the public is often viewed as a negative factor , arguing that it could lead to unemployment growth and stifle economic development .
rather than putting bread on the table as berlusconi ’ s politician , politicians , who have been 精于 and 没有 in the media ’ s court , remain wedded to distorted views .
if someone told the public the truth , it would be a boon to europe ’ s economic development .
a lucky year for god
london – god ’ s luck is bad in this year .
after a 挫败 literary attack on the 万能 of oxford university , christopher hitchens , and others , god ’ s adherents began to push back .
the best was the case of god , the brilliant religious writer , of god .
more important is the growing number of people in the united kingdom who have come to the various christian churches of christian churches .
moreover , the pope ’ s visit to britain in september was very successful .
there was a deep memory of the country ’ s church at the time .
this year , of course , many christians who are not in the church attend the christmas ceremonies .
赞美诗 , church bells , and 马槽 remain at the heart of the 隆冬 celebrations , as well as consumer consumption .
this year , however , europe ’ s “ 狂欢 ” may be reduced by the 冰雪 and large-scale austerity programs of the european continent .
even in the weakest family , most children in western societies probably know the details of the christmas story .
there is a little room for the overcrowded .
a baby was born in the stables .
the wise man with gifts like gold , 乳香 , and 没药 .
we know this when we hear about santa claus , 拉普兰 , and full gifts .
we soon stopped believing this winter .
but the views of god in children in childhood have always remained in adulthood .
what atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack are our god .
and , in response to such a target , it is not difficult to poke dust on the hook .
leaving aside the fact that the 暴行 of atheist ’ s 暴行 ( the atrocities of the atheist authoritarians still ) , the attack on the literal interpretation of religious texts means that they reject science and reasoning .
it is up to six days before them , and evolution is a myth .
we have found that scientific and religious distinctions are in different areas , as well as in mind that socrates ’ s knowledge of “ science can not teach the moral and human meaning of people ’ s moral and lives . ”
a large number of christians believe that the 硫磺 of the earth ’ s “ apocalypse , ” but it does not seem to have heard the injunction of tolerance in the 山中 .
similarly , 态度强硬 jews , such as the settlers who filled the palestinians from east jerusalem and hebron , have long forgotten the early reading of jewish scholars , who demanded that judaism ’ s adherents treat the treatment of strangers .
still many muslim believers ignore the koran ’ s teachings , tolerance , and peace .
the right thing to be said is that such fundamentalists are often able to point out the damage the fundamentalists pose to the world .
fundamentalist american attitudes about their country ’ s international standing are invigorated by fundamentalist dogma .
the un is the devil ’ s own creation .
president barack obama is an un-american muslim .
the palestinian territories from the jordan river to the coast should be left to israel , and the world will end in a disastrous christian victory .
jewish fundamentalists obstruct the remaining peace process in the middle east , and continue to build illegal settlements .
islamic fundamentalists portray terrorism in the west as jihad , calling for an islamic caliphate from the atlantic to the pacific .
the fundamentalists ’ dogma is both aggressive and 浅 , both of which share a common feature : resentment rooted in fears of modern societies and resentments .
america ’ s christian fundamentalism harks back to nineteenth-century populism and anti-intellectualism .
members of evangelical churches associate their beliefs with the 先驱 individualism of early pioneers .
they are contemptuous of the establishment .
jewish fundamentalists believe that israeli critics are anti-semitic or , like israel ’ s opponents of israel ’ s hardline policies , “ 犹太人 jews . ”
israeli fundamentalists believe that the rest of us ’ s liberalization of technological progress and globalization reflects a renewed resurgence of western colonialism .
to be happier in a new year , we should listen to the core doctrines of all great religions , especially the confucian “ sins of others . ”
what religion teaches us should not be hatred , but – again , to borrow from confucius – how to build a universal community that welcomes the poor , outsiders , and the oppressed .
everyone , including atheists , should draw this most important message from the christian christmas story .
a gravity test for the euro
cambridge – while i subscribe to exchange rates to explain or understand that it is clear , there is still a mystery about the value of today ’ s euro relative to the euro .
don ’ t the currency market really believe that the eurozone ’ s governments have been able to save a “ comprehensive solution ” for a few months ?
the new plan is implausible , relying on dubious 承诺 playbook and vague promises of financing from asia .
even the best part of the program – that is , ( but not actually ) left private investors of greece ’ s sovereign debt 50 % – will not be enough to stabilize greece ’ s heavy debt and growth problem .
in my view , the euro must fall in a very good reason , and six less compelling reasons for the euro ’ s stability and even appreciation .
let us start with why the euro must fall .
in the absence of a clear path to a closer fiscal and political union – which can be achieved only through constitutional amendments – the current euro system is only a half-baked project , and is becoming increasingly unsustainable .
clearly , the european central bank will be forced to purchase a very expensive eurozone sovereign ( junk ) bond .
doing so may be effective in the short term , but if the risk of a sovereign default becomes a reality – and , according to my research and carmen reinhart , it is likely to be a capital restructuring .
moreover , if more robust northern european countries are unwilling to take on the transfer costs – political resistance is considerable – the ecb may be forced to recapitalize its own capital .
in any case , the risk of a deep financial crisis is high .
so what are the arguments to support the euro ’ s current level even appreciate ?
for starters , investors might tell themselves that , under the worst-case scenario , the northern european countries would abandon weaker countries and create new 欧元 .
but , while this scenario can not be said entirely impossible , the eurozone ’ s disintegration will be highly disastrous , and the euro will be able to recover .
second , investors may remember that in the financial panic of 2008 , the dollar at the epicenter of the 2008 financial panic was in the midst of a panic .
although it is difficult to link the dollar to today ’ s euro , the huge euro crisis is perfectly possible in the us and elsewhere .
perhaps the transmission mechanism would be us banks – many of whom remain fragile , because their capital adequacy is low , and the mortgage portfolios accounting for the value of their mortgages far exceed market value .
third , foreign central banks and sovereign wealth funds may be happy to continue purchasing the euro to hedge the risks of dollar and their own economies .
government investors , unlike private investors , do not necessarily invest in the highest returns .
if foreign official demand is the real reason behind the euro ’ s strong strength , the risks facing the euro are the eventual exit from foreign sovereign buyers , who are more focused on private investors than on them .
fourth , investors may assume that , ultimately , the risks are less severe in the us than in europe .
indeed , the us political system has been stymied in reaching a stable medium-term budget deficit .
while the us congress , which heads the “ super committee ” for fiscal consolidation , may be able to offer a case , the republicans and democrats are willing to be willing to compromise in an election year .
moreover , investors may worry that the fed will consider introducing a third round of “ quantitative easing , ” which would further depress the dollar .
fifth , the value of the euro ’ s current value has not been far too far off the terms of purchasing power , and the euro ’ s exchange rate is cheap for german exporters at $ 1.4 , even if the euro appreciates significantly , even if the euro appreciates .
for the eurozone ’ s southern periphery , however , the euro ’ s exchange rate is unsustainable .
some german companies have persuaded employees to accept wage cuts to help weather the financial crisis , but wages in southern europe have been rising steadily , even when productivity stagnates .
but , because the euro ’ s overall value must balance southern europe and northern europe , it is possible to say that 1.4 is in a reasonable range .
finally , investors may think that , although previous programs have failed , eurozone leaders ’ latest plans will work .
abraham lincoln famously said , “ you can always fool some people , but you can be deceiving everyone , but you can not always be deceiving everyone . ”
the complete euro recovery program will occur at some point in some countries , but it is unlikely to happen in any country .
thus , one can identify the great argument why the euro , despite its protracted crisis , has so far remained strong .
but , looking ahead next year , don ’ t count on the euro-dollar exchange rate to remain stable , and that the euro is stronger .
oxford – while austerity in europe faces growing social resistance , at least the policy has a simple direct advantage .
and , as the debate over fiscal consolidation and ensuring growth heats up , it is clear that there is little consensus on how to kick-start the economy .
one idea has emerged , arguing that environmental technology can drive a virtuous cycle of innovation and employment .
for some , green growth means that solar panels across villages , and solar panels in urban roofs , are all over .
but this is just the tip of the iceberg .
consider airbus in airbus , which uses a three-dimensional jet technology to replace the old injection process by half , saving the weight of exports by half , and reducing fuel consumption in many of the world ’ s life cycles .
but it is easier to say than to show how these technologies are expanded and that the entire economy will recover the entire economy .
moreover , the differences between the green economy and the green economy vary widely , and the differences are mounting .
in june , thousands of activists , policymakers , and business activists will gather in rio de janeiro for the third united nations sustainable development conference ( rio+20 ) , a green economy .
the conference will also unleash a new argument about green jobs , growth , cost increases , costs , and a new argument for consumer choice – all green .
as a co-author of a new european growth path , a report commissioned by germany ’ s government , i am now sorry for adding a voice to the positive outlook for green growth .
the european climate foundation has already published its roadmap 2050 , a practical guide to a prosperous europe .
since then , the un environment program has released its green economy report ; mckinsey wrote the resource revolution ; and the international trade union committee published a report called “ increasing green and decent jobs . ”
all of these reports have taken a different approach and proposed various recommendations , making it hard for policymakers to see forest .
the implication is that the economics of economics is not fully explained by economics and innovation , which makes it a whole .
in a period of smooth and incremental progress , macroeconomic models are a reliable tool for policymakers , but green growth is not the only way forward .
for example , the eu ’ s goal of achieving greenhouse-gas emissions by 80 % by 2050 will necessarily mean a comprehensive upgrading of infrastructure within the next few decades .
even if economists can not create models for such rapid and radical change , they should not be condemned , because it merely reflects our current level of knowledge , and the fact that economics really is very complex .
we simply have not yet had enough insights to understand how all of the factors in a faraway transition – whether a financial crisis or an explosion of growth – interact .
but all research on green growth seems to offer such explanations .
so what do they tell us ?
in practice , however , each study is limited to one or two dimensions of the economy , and explains how they interact .
the increase in the relationship between green and decent jobs has been studied .
the new growth path in europe explains the impact of expectations and the effects of 边干边学 .
the roadmap 2050 focuses on greening the energy system .
the authors then report a bold conclusion on the economy as a whole .
but when the value of these studies is reflected in the explanation for the part of the explanation , it was always central to the whole , and the whole is measured in gdp and employment .
every study explains a piece of the green economy , not one that covers the whole – not because of the shortcomings of these studies , but because it is beyond our capacity .
this suggests that , while there is no definitive demonstration that green growth is effective , it does not mean that we should abandon it .
we can not prove that a wave of environmental innovation would have a similar effect , but studies of different parts make such an outcome more compelling .
as humans , we all have unique capacity to make decisions about ambiguous information – in fact , we all do .
when we choose a career or spouse , or a politician who captured an opportunity from a plethora of possibilities , it is often based on incomplete information that can trigger cascading consequences .
a major pile of 叠 reports demonstrates the persuasive path of this shift from a historic economic crisis .
and it is time to turn our potential into reality .
green growth offers a realistic alternative to the austerity response to the current economic crisis .
policymakers should also merge this idea into the “ transcending austerity ” narrative that is now taking shape among major eu member states .
ethics and agriculture
melbourne – should developed countries ( or investors there ) buy agricultural land in developing countries ?
this is the questions raised by the south asian institute for land sales , the land matrix partnership , a land for european research organization and nongovernmental organizations .
the report shows that , since 2000 , investors in advanced or emerging countries have bought more than 300 million hectares of farmland in less developed countries ( more than 200 million acres ) .
this amounts to 1.7 % of the world ’ s agricultural land .
most of the world ’ s agricultural land bought in africa , two-thirds of which occur in countries where hunger is spreading and lack formal ownership of land ownership .
africa ’ s agricultural land is equivalent to the total amount of agricultural land in kenya .
foreign investors claim that they buy idle land , so , by making them produce output , the land buy up food supply .
but the land matrix partnership report found that this is not the case : some 45 % of the land of land is already available , and almost one-third of the trading land is the land of forest land , which suggests that development could threaten biodiversity .
this type of investment is both private and public-sector ( as in state-owned entities ) , the main buyers are three categories : china , india , brazil , south africa , malaysia , and south korea .
on average , per capita income in countries in origin is four times higher than the investment target .
the purpose of most of the investment is to produce food and other crops for land acquisition countries , which are obvious – more so than in the advanced countries that the price of land is higher .
more than 40 % of the investment purpose is to export food to countries in origin – a point that suggests that food security is the primary reason for buying land .
oxfam calls part of the deal “ 抢地 . ”
the report ’ s “ our land , our life , ” shows that the social community , affected by world bank programs , has been responsible for undermining the official complaints of its land since 2008 .
in order to attract attention to large-scale land acquisition of direct rights violations , oxfam called for the world bank to freeze investment in land purchases until the local society is assured and chooses to choose .
oxfam also calls for the world bank to ensure that these land deals do not undermine local and national food security .
in response , the world bank agreed to take misconduct in the land acquisition process , particularly in developing countries with weak governance and indicating that it supports more transparent and inclusive engagement .
at the same time , the world bank has pointed out that increasing food production to feed up to two billion people in 2050 is necessary , and suggests that it will need to increase agricultural investment in developing countries .
the world bank refused to suspend its cooperation with investors in agriculture , suggesting that such cooperation is set to be based on those who are most likely to turn things around .
might you ask that transparency and the requirement that local landholders are willing to sell is enough to protect people living in poverty ?
advocates of free markets would say that if local landholders want to sell their land , that is their choice .
after all , poor people can not be allowed to sell kidneys to the highest bidder .
of course , single-minded free-market supporters would say that we should be allowed .
but , in any case , people must explain why people should be barred from selling kidneys and selling land for food .
most people can live without a kidney .
but no one can live without food .
why buy the body of human organs , while buying agricultural land does not – even if the latter includes the expulsion of local landholders and the production of the rich rather than local consumers for export ?
indeed , compared to other foreign investors , the world bank may be able to care more about local landholders .
in that case , the 21 complaints about the world bank ’ s program most likely will most likely be the tip of a large iceberg of violations of land rights in foreign investors in agricultural projects in the developing world , where there are many cases of infringement .
one such case has finally led to the attention of the united nations human rights council .
in november , the committee concluded that germany had failed to use the 依曼 coffee to force the establishment of a large coffee card on a few villages in uganda .
but , in 2001 , the 村民 ’ s villagers were still living in extreme poverty , with no compensation compensation , whether in uganda or germany .
their land rights have been protected by the international covenant on civil and political rights , and germany is a signatory .
can we expect local landholders to receive better compensation from chinese or saudi investors ?
the rise of the food barons
berlin – industrial agriculture has long been criticized for intensifying climate change , environmental degradation , and rural poverty .
but it has done little to improve quality and sustainability , or to promote social justice .
this is not surprising , more than $ 5.7 billion of farmers and seven billion consumers worldwide , but the value chain in the global industrial sector is controlled by a handful of companies .
these companies ’ profits are high , and the great power of the game is not in their interest .
moreover , agricultural concentration in agriculture is rising , owing to the growing demand for agricultural raw materials in food , feed , and energy production .
as the middle class of southern countries rises , their consumption and nutrition habits have changed , boosting demand for processed foods , and a war on cross-border agriculture , chemicals , and food companies .
for years , the biggest players in these sectors have been buying their smaller competitors .
but now they are buying , and financing often comes from investors in completely different industries .
consider the seed and 农化 industries , the world ’ s second-largest pesticide producer , 拜耳公司 孟山都 , who is purchasing the largest seed producer ( Monsanto ) .
if the us and the eu ratify the deal ( which now seems likely ) , the three groups – 拜耳 , 陶氏 , and 中化 – will control more than 60 % of the world ’ s seeds and 农化 markets .
“ every day , ” one can name almost all genetically modified crops around the world .
as other large mergers and acquisitions continue to claim , the global agricultural market will be turned to the beginning of the year .
the three conglomerates will be closer to achieving targets that dominate the seed and pesticide markets – at which point they can control the production , prices , and quality of global food .
agricultural technology is experiencing similar changes in the seed industry .
five of the largest companies control 65 % of the market , and john Deere , john maynard keynes , is leading the charge .
the most promising new opportunity for food companies today lies in the digitization of agriculture .
while the digital digitization process is still in its infancy , it is gaining momentum , which will eventually cover all areas of product .
for too long , drones took over the spraying of spraying insecticides ; livestock will be equipped with sensors to track 产奶量 , sports trajectories , and feed ; tractors will be assessed through gps control ; and the 播种机 播种机 will evaluate the quality of soil .
to maximize the efficiency of new technologies , the companies that already dominate the value chain are already working together .
john 迪尔们 and 孟山都 have formed a coalition .
the confluence of soil and weather “ big data ” , new agricultural technologies , genetically modified seeds and new developments in 农化 , will help these companies save , protect natural resources , and maximize crop yields worldwide .
but while such a future may be good for a few large world companies , it will not solve the environmental and social problems that are left behind by industrialization .
most farmers , especially in the global south , can never afford expensive digital age machines .
the dictum that “ growth is either grow or leave ” will become “ either digitize or disappear . ”
in the presence of the united states non-governmental organization , a large number of agricultural firms will move toward upstream mobility , absorb seed and pesticide producers .
at that point , a few companies will decide everything we eat .
indeed , the same market concentration of the same market is in other parts of the value chain , such as agricultural traders and supermarkets .
and , while food processing is not yet integrated globally , it is already being dominated by unilever , danone , 蒙德 , and nestlé .
as new and 半 foods are replaced by 深加工 foods , such as 披萨 , soup , and 即食 meals , they also earn a rich fortune .
while lucrative , this business model can easily lead to obesity , diabetes , and other chronic diseases .
making matters worse , food companies have also benefited from the proliferation of diseases that are partly responsible for the diffusion of part of their responsibilities , because the “ healthy ” processed foods are located in the protein , vitamin , and 欧米茄 fatty acids .
at the same time , these companies gain market power at the expense of the value chain – the expense of farmers and workers .
international labor organization rules ensure that all workers have the right to organize unions , and prohibit forced labor and child labor , and race and gender discrimination .
but violations of labor laws are common , because the rules of the international labor organization are often weak , and unions are often threatened , fired , and even murdered .
in this unfavorable environment , minimum-wage , 加班费 , and 工作 standards are openly ignored .
women are particularly disadvantaged , because their salaries are less than male colleagues , and often in seasonal or temporary work .
today , half of the world ’ s 800 million starving people are smallholder farmers and agricultural workers .
their situation will be difficult to improve if few companies already dominate the industry ’ s dominance .
how to feed the world
prague – hunger has plagued humanity from time to time .
almost every major society is affected by famine ; it is estimated that , from bc to 1911 , there were at least one province in china or at least one province of droughts or floods .
but the fight against hunger is a battle that humanity can finally win .
in the last quarter of the twentieth century , production of grains in the last quarter of the twentieth century was higher than in any previous period , and this year ’ s grain production is higher than ever .
since 1992 , the number of hungry people worldwide has declined by more than 200 million , though the population has increased by nearly two billion .
affordable nutritional food is a top priority for all human beings , and one in nine people still can not get enough food to keep healthy .
today ’ s population of 7.3 billion is expected to become 8.5 billion by 2030 , and will grow to a total of 9.7 billion by 2050 .
with more mouths , stresses on food supply will come from conflict , economic instability , extreme weather events , and climate change .
thanks to improved seeds , new fertilizers , and pesticides , credit channels , and technological breakthroughs , agricultural productivity has increased substantially , as the main driver of reducing hunger .
from 1930 to 2000 , us agricultural output quadrupled , with productivity growth in agriculture more rapidly than in manufacturing .
developing countries also share these benefits : in 1960 , their fertilizer consumption was negligible , and in 2000 they used more than industrialized countries .
the world bank has found that productivity growth in agriculture is more than four times higher than in other sectors ’ productivity growth .
so how can we sustain this momentum ?
research and development investments are crucial .
according to the copenhagen consensus center , which i lead , an increase $ 88 billion in investment in agricultural research and development over the next 15 years could increase output by 0.4 percentage points annually , leaving 79 million people out of poverty , leaving five million children out of poverty .
achieving these goals would amount to $ 3 trillion of social good , implying a huge return on $ 34 per dollar spent .
scientific breakthroughs have also played a critical role in defeating specific nutritional challenges , such as vitamin a deficiency , which is the main cause of preventable child blindness .
robert 万加 has been awarded the world food prize for the inspiring work of 乌干达 ( vitamin a content ) in uganda with a large number of people who replace the rural poor in a variety of 品种 varieties .
another way to increase agricultural productivity is through labor .
copenhagen consensus centers are finding that increasing agricultural labor productivity “ is the only way to strengthen bangladesh ’ s resilience to climate change and achieve long-term development goals . ”
over two decades , investing around $ 9,000 per worker would boost agricultural productivity by 10 % .
the case in bangladesh is instructive , because it is vulnerable to flooding and climate change , while its agricultural productivity lags behind other developing and middle-income countries .
unsurprisingly , the bangladeshi prime minister ’ s office is working to lead global innovation , creating an agricultural innovation lab that shares best practices and ideas .
the copenhagen consensus center and the world ’ s largest ngo , brac , work together to understand what the country ’ s rural areas – the “ extreme poverty ” that brac engages with the “ extreme poverty ” that brac is working closely with .
these workers , the housewife , and others live on less than $ 0.6 per day , and their voices rarely have a place in policy discussions .
at the nine forums in remote parts of bangladesh , participants overwhelmingly spoke of a single policy priority : raising agricultural productivity .
“ it is well known , ” according to a local 孟加 ( 孟加 ) of the “ 地区 region , ” is that “ 孟加 ” is the bengali , referring to the natural hunger phenomenon of year .
“ our people are 饭 – we need to increase agricultural productivity . ”
as one 木吉玛 村民 put it in the same way : “ we need crops and seeds for 盐碱 and floods , so we do not die from food shortages . ”
humanity can win a war with hunger .
the world has made great strides , but the world needs more agricultural r & d and higher productivity .
a farmer near the 偏远地区 霍拉 in northern bangladesh , 附近 指出 , pointed out starkly , “ our survival depends on it . ”
we would do better .
the arab marshall plan
but , despite the revolution ’ s overthrow of dictators and changed society , these core objectives remain as distant as ever .
indeed , the economic challenges facing the arab spring countries have become even more urgent , severely affecting these countries ’ political prospects .
unemployment in tunisia and egypt nearly doubled , and foreign direct investment in the arab world has dried up .
tourism revenues , while strong , are falling , and fiscal challenges are still high .
but economic urgency does not reflect a policy response to slow ( if not impossible ) .
for example , the fiscal deficit in egypt this year will exceed 11 % of gdp .
but the country ’ s leaders are struggling to calm the conditions for imf loans .
the government cut fuel subsidies last year , but it did not increase further , and president mohamed morsi delayed the effort immediately after announcing the necessary tax increases .
almost all political stakeholders in egypt ( other arab transition countries ) know the need for economic reform .
but neither people nor policymakers want to assume the social and political costs of reform .
in the context of sensitive and uncertain political climate – a new crisis – economic reform has repeatedly been postponed and is not surprising .
politicians understand that macroeconomic stability and social cohesion are irreconcilable in the short term .
cutting food and energy subsidies to reduce the fiscal burden can not be counted on to win the support of you , because more than 40 % of egypt ’ s per capita income is allocated to food .
thus , politics has become a constraint on fiscal health .
at the same time , narrow imf prescriptions have the potential to amplify political instability , and people are no longer afraid to take on the streets to express their grievances .
the recent stalemate over economic reforms has highlighted a larger problem : the desire to reform and tax systems , which first put the social contract in exchange for political obedience .
but , during periods of economic uncertainty and high unemployment , such a movement would be too high for politicians to be even as large as individual countries .
in order to create the political space needed for economic reform , arab leaders must offer a regional growth pact – similar to the marshall plan – to stimulate investment aimed at reviving economic activity .
when the economy expands , the reform subsidy will be much easier .
moreover , building competitive markets is essential to ensure sustainable gdp growth .
to this end , regional trade barriers – the problem in the arab world even more generally than in sub-saharan africa – must be broken .
by agreeing to this pact , arab countries will be able to commit to reforming the subsidy system and reducing cross-border restrictions .
the regional dimension of prosperity is long ignored in the arab world .
but weak regional linkages limited small businesses ’ growth potential , forcing them to rely on national support .
though arab leaders often regard turkey as a beacon of hope , they rarely recognize that turkey ’ s current transition from “ sick man ” to the world is unlikely to be realized if regional synergies is not pursued .
this link is particularly important in egypt and tunisia , unless the country ’ s labor market – which has traditionally absorbed immigrants from north africa ’ s neighbors – is unlikely to reduce unemployment .
and , while tunisia ’ s situation seems to be the most optimistic , a crippling investment shortfall could derail reform .
with europe suffering from crisis , capital inflows from the resource-rich arab neighbors are the biggest hope in tunisia .
beyond that , arab countries must gradually increase development spending .
the new investment entity , such as sovereign wealth funds and islamic finance , can also help firms with 饥渴 financing .
at the same time , arab countries must streamline current aid efforts .
arab governments have long wasted money on the issue , with rich gulf states effectively subsidizing their troubled neighbors .
over the last two years , saudi arabia has provided more than $ 3 billion to yemen .
qatar has provided $ 5 billion to egypt since 2011 , and has pledged $ 3 billion .
and the united arab emirates recently pledged $ 2.5 billion to bahrain .
but unconditional aid can only delay 干戈 , because it weakens budgetary constraints , thereby reducing pressure on policymakers and creating moral hazard .
the arab spring exposed fault lines not only among individual countries , but also across the region .
this requires not only redefining the relationships between people and states , but also the need to redefine the relationship between arab countries .
most important , it is no longer appropriate to divide arab countries into donor and resource-poor countries .
helping neighboring countries ’ economic revival , the political transition to spur political transition , is the region ’ s interests – including countries that are not facing an imminent threat of revolutionary threats .
the ahistorical federal reserve
berkeley – the past 20 years have taught – or should have taught – the fed ’ s four lessons .
but the fed ’ s current policy posture has raised questions about whether they have internalized any of them .
the first lesson is that , at least in the face of current interest-rate adjustments , the fed ’ s sensible target inflation should be 4 % per year , not 2 % .
higher inflation is essential to raise inflation targeting in order to reduce the short-term safety nominal interest rate of five or more .
the fed objected that changing the inflation target , even once , would undermine the credibility of its commitment to ensuring price stability .
but the fed can pay now and then pay the price .
after all , if today ’ s credibility means sticking to policies that limit you ’ ability to do the job tomorrow , what is certain ?
the second lesson is that the phillips curve ’ s two regressive arrows have occurred in the 1970 ’ s or even 1980 ’ s , when the phillips curve described the relationship between expectations and inflation .
in the 1990s , then-fed chair alan greenspan discovered this phenomenon .
he rightly judged that pushing for faster growth and lower unemployment would not bring excessive risk , but rather low-hanging fruit .
the current fed seems to hold different views .
the third lesson is that the bond market ’ s inversion curve is not just a sign that the market is too tight ; it is a sign that monetary policy is too tight .
those who thought that the fed ’ s overshooting would lead to lower interest rates led to a spike in us treasury securities , which now fret about when the recession would quickly lead to excess capacity .
today , the fed has a “ habitat theory ” explaining why this time is different – that is , why investors ’ preferences for a maturity duration mean that the yield curve is contrary to the meaning of the past .
but in 2006 , before the financial crisis erupted , people thought it was different .
( there was also the thought that this time was different . )
history suggests that this time is unlikely to be different – if the fed continues to do so again .
in the 1980 ’ s , there was good reason to believe that the next big shock to the us macroeconomy could be inflationary .
today ’ s judgment is no longer tenable .
in the past , the major shocks have not triggered inflation , such as the 1973 and 1979 oil crisis , on which they triggered deflation , such as the us savings and loan crisis of the 1980 ’ s , the asian financial crisis in 1997 , the dot-com bubble , and the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks in the united states , and the european debt crisis in september 2010 .
former fed chair janet yellen told me in the 1990 ’ s that , in the case of the fed , the debate within the fed ’ s framework of interest rates has facilitated a rough consensus on the appropriate policy of the right policies about the economic structure and the state of the state .
but , at least in my view , the fed ’ s shift from a realistic view of the economy to the right monetary policy is a bad thing .
perhaps the fed should discuss internal discussions within a more clearly defined framework .
consider , for example , the fed ’ s “ optimized control ” approach , which is based on the creation of multiple macroeconomic models , which use different interest rates and balance-sheet tools to predict future inflation and unemployment .
the problem with optimizing control methods is that the real world is a closed system , with economic relations never changing , or in an entirely predictable way .
the most effective – and thus most credible – monetary policy must reflect not only the lessons of history , but also the willingness to reflect on the long-held assumptions .
a history lesson for koizumi
once again , china and south korea protested against the annual demonstrations against japanese prime minister junichiro koizumi ’ s annual pilgrimage to the yasukuni shrine .
koizumi insisted that it has buried japan ’ s relations with its neighbors for years to buried the yasukuni shrine , which has buried war criminals .
indeed , chinese president hu jintao has long claimed that the japanese prime minister , a japanese prime minister who has not visited the yasukuni shrine , has said that the visits were 美化 to japanese aggression and colonial history .
even some japanese have begun to criticize koizumi .
while the public still perceives the chinese as irrational for japan , a recent survey shows that more than 70 % of japanese believe that the current state of relations is unacceptable .
more people do not support koizumi ’ s annual pilgrimage to yasukuni , with seven former prime ministers jointly demanding that he abandon the visits .
yet koizumi was bent on clinging .
and , most likely , prime minister shinzo abe , who will succeed him , has publicly declared that he will continue to visit the yasukuni shrine .
another may succeed koizumi , foreign minister aso , calling for the japanese emperor to visit yasukuni .
despite this seeming pessimism , the deadlock in yasukuni appears to be deepening .
but history can not only bring us to the present .
even on the issue of yasukuni , there are positive lessons for us to learn .
consider nakasone , koizumi ’ s predecessor in the 1980 ’ s .
both are savvy politicians who have long been popular and took office .
both are conservative , nationalistic , and promoted more political and military roles abroad .
finally , both are pro-american , with nakasone announced that japan was the united states ’ “ unsinkable aircraft carrier ” in east asia , and koizumi has sent to iraq to support the us-led war campaign .
but one important difference between nakasone and koizumi is often overlooked : their handling of the yasukuni controversy and its approach to relations .
nakasone broke the taboo as the first prime minister who visited the yasukuni shrine on august 15 , 1985 , after the four decades of the end of world war ii .
the decision triggered a strong response from china , where students marched to protest his visits .
but , instead of taking advantage of his domestic disapproval of china , nakasone decided to visit yasukuni .
he chose to repair relations with china , focusing on positive aspects of bilateral ties .
in 1986 , nakasone visited beijing ’ s general secretary of the communist party , hu yaobang , the architect of the chinese communist market ’ s founding activities , and pledged to cultivate friendly relations with china .
this genuine embrace of reconciliation offers a much-needed support for china ’ s leaders , who are eager to control anti-japanese sentiments .
hu praised nakasone ’ s courage and warned of chinese youth that if they “ consider only the interests of their country , they are not 头脑冷静 patriots . ”
nakasone managed to escape the crisis , as a politician who was considered good at dealing with japan ’ s diplomatic relations with china .
no one accused nakasone of “ selling the nation ” to beijing .
nor is his conservative , nationalist , and pro-american credentials damaged .
this episode suggests that koizumi ’ s hardline stance is not the only option .
japan ’ s prime minister can be a strong prime minister without exploiting domestic discontent with its neighbors ; it can maintain a functioning , patriotic , and pro-american stance while fostering a functioning , patriotic , and pro-american stance .
indeed , ending the yasukuni shrine will most likely open the door to the long-overdue sino-japanese meeting , which will strengthen the voices of moderate chinese and chinese , seeking to develop a future-oriented relationship with japan .
unfortunately , koizumi and their allies are not prepared to go further on the yasukuni issue .
as foreign minister aso recently pointed out : “ the more the chinese object , the more [ japan feels to be going to visit it . ”
as if someone told you ‘ don ’ t smoke cigarettes , it actually makes you want to smoke . ”
no one expects the japanese and chinese leaders to embrace each other , as nakasone and hu did two decades ago , but the leaders of neighboring powers pretend to be a sad one at the international conference .
if koizumi had now answered the yasukuni shrine to answer the yasukuni shrine , he could simply play the analogy : 继续 koizumi ’ s smoke smoke not in japan ’ s national interest .
israel , america , and iran
tel aviv – israel ’ s fear of the specter of nuclear iran has degenerated into a crisis of confidence in the us .
prime minister binyamin netanyahu , who forced obama to set a red line that iran must not cross , will intervene militarily .
the implication of israel ’ s unilateral military attack and outright intervention in the us election campaign suggests that netanyahu ’ s effort to rein in obama .
part of the debate between the two allies reflects their different priorities : for israel , the red line is iran ’ s immediate underground uranium-enrichment facility ; and , for the us , the most urgent issue is dedicated nuclear facilities .
but , equally important , this controversy reflects their different objectives .
for israel , a war with iran is not intended to eliminate a threat that has already existed , but to restore its regional status .
israel ’ s leaders believe that the country ’ s position in the middle east is severely compromised : the emergence of a hostile islamist regime in egypt , and the possibility of a similar hostile regime in syria , the country ’ s bitter enemies , too , have been greatly galvanized by islamist groups like israel and lebanon .
as a result , netanyahu and defense minister ehud barak have both regarded iran as a strategic initiative for the wider middle east , an indication that israel would not discount military action that is well beyond surgical air strikes .
indeed , they may already be considering a land from land to iran and , in this case , a decisive attack on hamas and hezbollah in gaza .
america ’ s assessment of the consequences of military action is very different from the us , even if it does not accept iran ’ s own nuclear weapons .
as a great power , the us has failed to succeed in a series of efforts , whether war or regional diplomacy , in a dysfunctional middle east , and iran ’ s crisis is taking place at a time of its desire to shift its focus to the asia-pacific region .
the adverse effects of a war with iran will be dangerous for the us for years to come , undermining their new strategic priorities .
the latest report by iran ’ s project , the signatories of the project , includes the former us national security adviser brent scowcroft and zbigniew brzezinski , who would only slow the country ’ s military strike against iran by four years .
to ensure that iran is never a bomb , the us will need to maintain military pressure on iran for years to come .
the report says that if the regime had to be brought to power by overthrowing the regime , it needs military occupation , and the resources and manpower that military occupation will require are more the combined resources of the military and afghanistan combined .
moreover , in the wake of the arab spring , conventional wisdom – the region ’ s sunni arab states , bound to default on iran ’ s nuclear facilities – must be reassessed , especially after the sudden eruption of violent violence in the muslim world .
the paradigm of the arab spring – one that can be divided into “ moderate ” and “ extreme ” two – is gone .
the islamist governments that emerged from the fall of the us are not allies of the iranian empire .
but , in their struggle to survive , they must channel popular anti-americanism .
for egyptian president mohamed morsi , this requirement meant that the thugs who had to attack the us embassy in recent attacks are not just condemning violence .
attacking iran , especially if it develops a long-term war involving regional proxies , is bound to turn into the trigger for anti-israel and anti-american agitation , and the region ’ s islamist regimes will become widespread .
the regional war is inevitable .
a major problem with iran ’ s military action is to ensure that it is the legitimacy of doing so .
china and russia will never allow the us to push the un into a military strike .
moreover , while iran ’ s provocations have clearly revealed its intention to develop nuclear weapons , this has helped to foster support for us military action , but it is far from certain that europe and other parts of the world will be far from certain .
the horrific ending of the war in iraq and afghanistan will have a major impact on western democracies .
the most pessimistic part is that israel has a totally different demand for international legitimacy in response to efforts to stop its nuclear program .
netanyahu believes that , rather than geopolitical , strategic considerations should be taken .
his reckless palestine policies have left israel losing all its friends in the international community , let alone the arab middle east .
indeed , many believe that netanyahu ’ s focus on iran is simply a ploy to divert attention from the palestinian issue .
only a generous , bold peace plan that can be repaired , together with a halt to construction and expansion of settlements in the west bank , can recapture the palestinian people and their arab brethren .
only by winning the arab world can the international community ensure that israel and the us contain iran ’ s intentions .
the human rights crimes in gaza
atlanta – the world is witnessing a serious human crime in gaza , where roughly 1.5 million people have been imprisoned there , whether from sea , air air , or land , where all people are suffering from a brutal punishment .
after the election of the political candidates representing hamas in 2006 won the majority of the palestinian parliament , israel ’ s support for the palestinians in the united states has intensified , even though the election was viewed as honest and fair .
israel and the united states have refused to accept the right of a coalition government with hamas and fatah ; now , after a civil war , hamas is now being jailed for 41 of the west bank ’ s 43 victories in the west bank .
regardless of the party struggle between fatah and hamas over the palestinian territories , we must remember that economic sanctions and restrictions on water supplies , food , power , and fuel are creating extremely difficult lives in the lives of innocent people living in gaza , with roughly 100,000 million people .
israel ’ s bombing of a besieged area and rocket rockets fired to the militants and innocent children there .
in a woman and her four children last week , the number of people and her children was widely publicized , a report described by a report published in the field of israel ’ s basic information rights ( the islamic information center ) , which was killed on february 27 .
in my recent trip to the middle east , i attempted to understand the crisis better .
i visited my community , a community in southern israel , roughly 20,000 people , and attacks on 劣质 rockets from nearby gaza .
i met with hamas ’ s leaders , with delegations from gaza and senior officials from damascus in syria .
once again , i denounced their attacks , and urged them to declare a unilateral ceasefire or a deal with israel to stop all military operations in gaza and beyond .
they replied that they had taken such action before , but they have reminded me that hamas had previously insisted on a ceasefire in palestinian territories , including gaza and the west bank , but israel refused .
hamas was later offered a cease-fire on both sides of gaza , with israel willing to consider , but eventually rejected .
there is a fierce debate on both sides of the two sides .
israel has occupied and colonized the west bank in the west bank , with roughly one-quarter of the size of israel ’ s population ( 28.5 % ) in the international community .
some of israel ’ s religious factions claim that israel has the right to land on both sides of the jordan river , and others insist that they live in a “ safe ” settlement of roughly 50 million people .
all arab countries agree that if israel is willing to comply with the main united nations resolutions , they would fully recognize israel .
hamas has agreed to accept any peace deal between palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert , as long as it can be ratified by the palestinian referendum .
this brings us to the promise of progress , but , despite the encouraging announcement of the annapolis conference in annapolis last november , the peace process was backsliding .
israel has announced that the number of new recruits in palestine will be opened in palestine , and the number of roadblocks in the west bank is increasing , while repression in gaza has been tightened .
other countries ’ leaders are one thing to defer to america ’ s position in a crucial peace negotiations , but the world must not stand idly by the brutal abuse of innocent people .
it is now europe , the us , israel , and others that a strong voice in the human rights tragedy that occurred in the palestinian people .
a hundred years of superconductivity
chicago – the world ’ s 首台 “ quantum ” computer – which uses the magic of quantum phenomena to form a far higher rate than the current 机器 machine – has recently been sold to 公司 companies .
at the same time , when people begin to question the quantum computer ’ s 真伪 , its designers published articles of authority in peer-reviewed journals expressing the basic elements of the new computer .
this was marked by the 100th anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the superconductivity : the ability to carry a current form of existence without causing losses .
the current wave of superconductivity in superconductivity can survive for years without measurable decay .
this attributes have given superconductors unique characteristics in many ways .
they can carry large amounts of current amounts , well suited to urban power grids , and they can create a very powerful magnetic class .
these 超导磁体 are applied to a range of technologies .
what is most well known is the magnet for 医院 imaging systems ( mri ) .
perhaps the most obvious is europe ’ s large hadron collider , which is used to accelerate particles ’ giant magnets , which are used to explore material fundamentals .
while there is considerable prospect , superconductors have their own limitations , most notably in most of the 超导 situations – in fact , close to zero temperatures .
that temperature can be achieved only through 液氦 cooling .
as a result , swiss researchers announced a world of copper in 1986 , when they identified a temperature that could be twice as high as they were in the previous record holder .
soon after , researchers in the united states found a related material that can superconduct in the context of 温度 temperatures .
as the magazine magazine was formally declared in may 1987 , we have 超导 the 革命 revolution .
alas , the revolution quickly fell short .
making matters worse , they are strongly 各向异性 – a 材料 structure composed of a 大量 band of weak solidarity , so that , despite being applied , it is also highly problematic for industry .
the scientific community also found a variety of other kinds of “ heat ” superconductors – one simple compound , a mixture of iron and arsenic , and a mixture of iron and arsenic .
while these materials are not superconductivity in 超导 temperatures , they may eventually become better materials available to supply .
given that there are thousands of compounds in different parts , better 材料 materials are likely to occur .
superconductors are expected to play an increasingly important role in future technologies .
the “ second generation ” 超导 copper is already being used to produce 利于 cables for power transmission and a more 轻量 generators for wind turbines .
stronger 超导磁体 technology advances the development of MRI technologies .
superconductors are used in high-speed trains , as well as 过滤器 filters to improve the signal of 带宽 基站 stations .
the discovery of a new superconductors with better properties may lead to greater technological innovation .
this is the intellectual challenge of superconductors .
it took 46 years from discovery of superconductivity to 1957 , 1957 , and 巴丁 巴丁 ’ s theory of how the phenomenon arose .
along this path , a large number of well-known physicists have failed to find the answer – einstein , werner heisenberg , and richard feynman .
discovering this conundrum requires the development of advanced theoretical tools .
it is more difficult to see how to make electrons work .
the basic discovery of bcs is that if electrons pair between two and two , they can get superconductivity .
fortunately , the mechanism for such coupling has been found .
while electronic schools are 负电 and mutually exclusive , they can navigate the 正离子 正离子 that they leave behind , for example , in a way that can be seen as an effective medium of two electronic attraction .
but others believe that this will not be the new superconductors .
高温 copper will superconduct in higher temperatures , but it is more important that they have a sense of attraction : they are created by 材料 materials , which are 磁性 , and the researchers are most likely to do so .
with the 电子对 theory of 等方性 ( which is all the same in space ) , the 电子对 of 铜 copper is strongly 各向异性 , a 强烈 structure .
how can they be able to make them together with the absence of ions , and to achieve the high temperatures of superconductors ?
when it comes to theories about this theory , new theoretical breakthroughs must be made in a system that explains the 体系 systems ( even black holes ) .
but whatever the theory , it is bound to produce a revolution in physics .
lies , damned lies , and ai
cambridge – algorithms and algorithms are as biased as the data they have relied on .
and all data are biased .
even “ official ” statistics can not be considered objective “ facts . ”
the figures issued by the government represent the current state of social affairs , where those who are collecting data represent both importance and relevance .
the scope and classifications used to understand the data are not neutral .
just as algorithmic decision-making spreads to broader decision-making areas , it is revealing harsh social biases that used to be collected in the shadows of our data .
by incorporating existing structures and processes into their logical plates , artificial intelligence ( ai ) is forcing us to confront the communities we create .
the problem is not just that i have made the math of computers , as i have done in cambridge university ’ s 同事 詹妮 , but that computers think , but computers emulate economists .
after all , ai is an economy where humans can not be considered wrong .
it is an agent capable of calculating , logically coherent , and targeting goals , which can use limited 计算资源 to achieve the desired situation .
if “ maximizing utility ” is “ utility , ” they are more effective than anyone .
“ utility ” is like “ phlogiston ” that once seemed to be “ phlogiston . ”
early chemists assumes that the 可燃物质 contained a hidden element – phlogiston – that could explain why substances change in the form of burning .
but , despite their efforts , this assumption can never be borne out by scientists .
the chemist can not justify phlogiston , and economists today can not measure the actual utility .
economists use the concept of utility to explain the causes of people ’ s choices – buying , investing , and working hard work : everyone is trying to maximize utility of utility according to their preferences and beliefs around the world , and to the limits of income and resource scarcity .
while there is no shortage , utility is a powerful construct .
naturally , everyone seems to think that everyone is doing their own good .
moreover , economists ’ notion of genius stems from classical utilitarianism , which is the goal of classical utilitarianism .
as modern economists follow in the footsteps of john stuart mill , most of the algorithms are 功利主义者 , believing that they can maximize the benefits if they know “ good . ”
but this assumption may be unsettling .
consider , for example , the use of algorithms to determine whether prisoners deserve parole .
an important study in 2017 found that algorithms have been far more effective in predicting recidivism rates than humans , and they can be used to reduce “ incarceration rates ” by more than 40 % , while “ not raising the rate of crime . ”
as a result , in the us , artificial intelligence can be used to change a disproportionately black prison population .
but what if ai takes over the parole process , and the proportion of african-americans ’ incarceration is still higher than white ?
effective algorithmic decision-making leaves these problems out of reach and forced us to decide precisely what outcomes should be maximized .
should we simply want to reduce the overall prison population , or should we care about fairness ?
while politics can be allowed to fudge and compromise to hide this tradeoff , computer code must be clear .
this demand for clarity makes it harder to ignore structural sources of social injustice .
in the age of ai , algorithms will force us to recognize how the results of past social and political conflicts can be sustained through our use of data .
thanks to groups such as the ai ethics initiative and the ai partnership , the broader debate about the ethics of ai has begun .
but ai algorithms are , of course , simply working on code .
the real problem is not just the use of algorithmic decision-making , but also on the moral foundations of our societies .
and , while we need to debate the practical and philosophical tradeoffs of maximizing the practice of utility by artificial intelligence , we need to rethink ourselves .
we must now decide whether we really want to integrate existing social arrangements into our decision-making mechanisms into the future .
given the political fragmentation currently occurring around the world , this seems to be the best time to start a new chapter .
a better global framework to end aids
stockholm , geneva – this week , we celebrate progress toward fighting aids .
in many countries with strong health systems , aids is no longer the death penalty , but a chronic condition .
africa has reached a critical point : the number of africans who are starting to treat aids every year has surpassed the number of infected africans .
but , while we celebrate , we still have to lose 1.1 million people who died this year for aids .
every day , 6,000 people are infected with hiv , and aids remains a major cause of death for children , adolescents , and women in africa .
the fight against aids spurs us all to help those who are left behind , and work to eliminate aids once and for all .
fortunately , we already have the knowledge , resources , and the most important political impetus to do so ; at this year ’ s high-profile meeting of aids , the un ’ s member states have made ambitious commitments that will enable us to take the fast path .
moreover , in september , canada hosted a successful conference on the global fund for aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , $ 1.3 billion in funding , and a sufficient global fund for the 2018-2019 period .
at the same time , individual countries have increased domestic investment , while international partners – both small and small – have maintained the $ 26 billion needed to support global aids responses .
but financing the global health system is not enough .
the international community must adopt a more comprehensive perspective , strengthening global responses , and that arrangement must make clear division of labor and close cooperation .
ultimately , the goal of this arrangement must be to support countries ’ own health systems , in order to channel public and private actors at every level of the public and private actors in order to make all facilities – from public hospitals to clinics – ready .
sweden has been proud of the global fund ; at a meeting in september , it pledged 25 million ( $ 2.71 billion ) .
the global fund is the largest multilateral financing source for aids , tuberculosis , and malaria ; but , as the global vaccine and gavi union ( now known as gavi , or vaccine alliance ) , it is part of a larger global arrangement .
as a result , it is difficult to sustain progress on the level of progress on hiv/aids if countries support other global health organizations , such as unaids , the world health organization , and the united nations development programme .
providing the necessary support requires donors to work together to enable the current arrangements of global health problems to be plentiful .
this , in turn , will ensure that all countries – and all of the people – receive the support they need .
unaids has set a powerful example for international cooperation , and it has worked hard to bring together the common purpose of the 2016 战略 strategy .
this unique partnership of innovation brings together 11 un agencies , together with specialized experience with diverse sectors , and mobilize major global stakeholders .
partners include business , community , and religious leaders , including teachers , judges , law enforcement officials , parliamentarians , and many of the health departments that affect health outcomes .
one of unaids ’ mission is to encourage national governments to prioritize aids as a public-health agenda , and to invest in ending the disease .
it is the only organization with the power to establish the norms of global aids response , which means that it plays a key role in the current international arrangements .
unaids maintains close cooperation with the global fund .
it has a offices in more than 80 countries , and its regional teams can provide technical support and strategic information , thereby helping the global fund to channel adequate funds to the right projects , regions , and populations .
moreover , it can help to create social , legal , and political conditions for people to use health services , including not only to promote gender equality and ensure that the people who are at risk of contracting hiv do not face discrimination .
by using international aids responses to promote equality , dignity , and human rights worldwide , unaids is working with citizens at every level .
but , while unaids ’ authority is widely shared , it lacks sufficient resources , which threatens previous achievements and future projects , with the people and countries that rely on the organization to facilitate their life-saving support .
sweden and unaids will work together to ensure that international aids responses continue to change – and save – lives .
we will protect and empower women and girls , and to ensure that vulnerable populations are heard .
at the same time , however , the international community must strengthen the existing framework for managing global health problems .
as swedish prime minister 洛夫 洛夫 said in montreal in september , “ today we focus on the global fund , let us hope that we don ’ t forget the whole global health arrangement . ”
the international community should face the challenge , pledging to support our global health infrastructure , all of which – and all countries and individuals – must be involved .
aids , ncds , and 组织学
geneva – ncds ( ncds ) , such as heart disease , stroke , cancer , diabetes , and chronic lung disease , have caused 70 % of all deaths .
the evidence of this is that smoking , inactivity , unhealthy diets , and excessive alcohol will increase the risk of premature deaths from ncds prematurely .
but while these risks are well known , obesity rates worldwide remain high , and tobacco and alcohol consumption are growing .
against this background , the network of ncd alliances is the second global ncd union forum in the united arab emirates on december 11 .
in the process of seeking to control ncds , we should look at the experience of the aids movement .
people carrying the hiv and the impact of their effects constantly drive responses , and their unique forms of mobilization help progress .
although the revolution has not been successful , aids activists know that victory is a triumph .
likewise , the mobilized ncd movement can change the tide .
but , in 2015 , richard 霍顿 , the editor of the lancet , will say that the ncd community needs “ a 昏迷 to the soul of one shock . ”
he added , “ who is interested in triggering the shock ? ”
we believe that many of the experience of aids activists can take lessons .
as ncds receive global attention , those seeking to control preventable diseases should take the “ abcs ” of aids .
the first first letter that the ncd community needs to consider is a form of activity .
those over 40 years old can recall the aids activists ’ “ 装 ” on global scientific conferences .
in the united states , aids activists took to the streets , and , in october 1988 , the food and drug administration headquarters .
globally , activists lobbied governments and pharmaceutical companies to reduce drug prices .
these activities are also continuing , and should be a model for action on ncds .
second , the ncd community must move decisively to develop a budget – a strategy b in the aids movement .
civil-society organizations and grassroots activities may be able to inject early energies , but the organization and the maintenance of a broad coalition required funds .
the aids movement was clear from the start , and lobbied resources effectively to support its advocacy and responsibility .
the coalition is a coalition : the aids movement is soon aware that progress can be achieved only with diverse support .
activists create links between people living with hiv and other issues , such as women ’ s rights , intellectual property , nutrition , and housing .
the aids movement also recognizes that it must respond to such infectious diseases as a whole .
as a result , d ’ souza – a successful determinant of the decision – is to attract attention to the interconnected dynamics of the challenge .
for example , lobbying for education leaders enables girls to read longer books , thereby helping young people gain knowledge to make smart decisions about when and who talk about safety .
likewise , there is a link between working on poverty , gender , and nutrition – all factors that contribute to the aids crisis .
the causes of ncds are not isolated , but also require a multidimensional approach to prevention .
engagement – E – gave the aids movement enormous influence .
proponents of the aids movement have taken the approach of the movement ’ s rights movement , leading the slogan “ our thing , we all engage in ” the slogan to address the problem of disease .
for example , unaids remains the only united nations agency , composed of representatives of civil society , from civil-society representatives .
this paradigm has been incorporated into a powerful group of aids movements , which are almost unthinkable in the aids conference .
the disease prevention campaign must also develop a persuasive narrative , while robert f. kennedy – defined ( frame ) – is the key to winning political leaders in the aids community .
in particular , access to aids treatment is defined as a matter of economic justice .
this narrative has reduced the price of drug prices sharply , with more than half of the people living in low- and middle-income countries receiving treatment .
an equally important question about the aids movement – which is also true of the ncd movement – is responsibility .
the aids community has worked hard to deflect attention from the choice of individual life choices to demand health care and elimination of legal discrimination .
in the aids debate , gender – the g-20 in our movement – is an important focus .
hiv was initially viewed as “ gay disease , ” and gender identity was marked by the dna of the aids movement .
gender issues for ncds are equally important ; consider the marketing of alcohol and tobacco .
gender should therefore be a priority for ncds prevention .
finally , H – human rights – is the cornerstone of the aids response mechanism .
aids activists have launched campaigns against discrimination , schools , and hospitals .
strategic litigation helps to ensure equality for the law .
the aids movement refused to hold conferences on countries with punitive laws to carry hiv .
the ncd movement should also adopt a similar strategy , such as the refusal of countries to fight for junk food advertising against children .
the lessons of the aids movement can be traced to the entire alphabet , but they are right to end in comparison , because human rights drove the aids response and should promote the response to ncds .
poverty , exclusion , and social and economic marginalization make it easier to infect hiv .
the same is true of ncds .
the early mainstream reaction to the aids epidemic was to ask “ why those who do not make a better choice ? ”
the aids movement proved that this is a mistake .
today , 70 % of the planet ’ s people face the risk of premature death for premature deaths from preventable diseases .
when we join this force , we have created a stronger movement .
the views expressed here do not represent unaids .
aid works
new york – critics of foreign aid are wrong .
a growing number of people in the data show that death rates for poor people in many countries are declining rapidly , and the aid for health assistance is crucial .
aid works , and it saves lives .
according to recent research by the 德莫姆 and 特罗 穆勒 , kenya ’ s infant mortality rate has fallen sharply in recent years , owing partly to the massive use of malaria .
this finding is consistent with murray ’ s important study of malaria mortality , which has found that , since 2004 , malaria mortality rates in sub-saharan africa have experienced significant and rapidly declining mortality rates , owing to the support of malaria control efforts supported by external aid .
let us begin a dozen years ago .
in 2000 , africa was devastated by three epidemics .
aids kills more than two million lives every year , and is spreading rapidly .
malaria has surged , owing to the parasite ’ s growing resistance to traditional drugs .
tb is also raging , partly because of the aids epidemic , partly owing to the emergence of drug-resistant tb .
moreover , hundreds of thousands of women die each year during childbirth , because they can not produce in safe clinics and hospitals , nor do they need the emergency relief needed .
these crises spurred action .
the un ’ s member states adopted the millennium development goals in september 2000 .
three of the eight mdgs are directly focused on health , reducing child mortality , deaths of maternal deaths , and infectious diseases .
likewise , the world health organization has vigorously called for increased aid for health assistance .
african leaders , led by nigeria ’ s president , olusegun obasanjo , have accepted the burden of fighting epidemics with the continent .
nigeria hosted two landmark summits , namely the malaria summit in 2000 and the aids summit in 2001 , which played a major role in facilitating action .
in the second summit , then-un secretary-general kofi annan called for a global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria .
the global fund works in 2002 to finance the prevention , treatment , and care of these three diseases .
high-income countries , too , are eventually reaching agreements , agreeing to remove debts from heavily indebted poor countries , reduce their debt-service burdens , and spend more on health programs .
the us has taken action , with two major projects , one of aids , and another against malaria .
in 2005 , the united nations millennium project offered a practical approach to how to increase primary health care in the poorest countries , with high-income countries helping the poorest countries to assume the costs of their failure .
the un general assembly adopted many of the project ’ s recommendations , and began to implement many low-income countries .
aided by these efforts , donor aid is booming .
in 1995 , total aid for health aid was about $ 79 billion .
this inadequate level of aid has increased slowly , to $ 10.5 billion in 2000 .
the abundance of funding has enabled programs to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria to launch , safe childbirth , and increase vaccine coverage , and polio is largely eliminated .
many innovative health-care technologies are developed and used .
with roughly one billion people living in high-income countries , aid in 2010 meant that they accounted for $ 27 per capita – a small fraction of what they are , but for the poorest .
public health is now visible in many ways .
in 1990 , 12 million children died under the age of five .
by 2010 , the number fell to around 7.6 million – still high , but certainly historic .
the number of malaria deaths in africa has fallen from the peak of one million in 2004 to around 700,000 in 2010 , while the number of pregnant women worldwide fell by almost half from 1990 to 2010 , from 145 to 287 ( estimates ) .
if annual health aid increases $ 100- $ 150 billion ( with residents of high-income countries claiming $ 10-15 per person ) , the next few years will be more progressive .
the mdgs , even in the world ’ s poorest countries , are achievable .
unfortunately , each of the steps that have been taken in the last decade ( and now no exception ) , a group of skeptics of aid is needed to intervene .
they have repeatedly claimed that aid has little effect ; aid funds were lost ; and the case for malaria can not be used for the poor , because the poor do not have the right use ; and so on .
their attacks were relentless ( including for me ) .
the opponents of aid are not just wrong .
they are unanimous in opposing the financing needed to make progress – reducing infant deaths in order to enable the poorest countries to complete their basic health services in 2015 and then to ensure that all people have access to essential health services .
a decade of progress in health outcomes has shown that skeptics are wrong .
aid for health is useful in saving lives and improving lives and improving lives .
let us continue to support these lives , raising the dignity and wellbeing of all people .
the aiib and global governance
hong kong – despite official opposition from the united states and japan , 57 countries have chosen to become founding members of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) .
regardless of the skeptics ’ views , this remarkable turnaround has helped to improve global economic governance .
as former us treasury secretary larry summers has pointed out , the aiib ’ s establishment “ may be remembered as a moment of us loss of its global economic system . ”
on the contrary , the adb president , 中尾 Nakao , argues that the aiib ’ s establishment will not lead to “ major changes in development finance , ” though he acknowledged that “ there is a range of interpretations of its symbolic significance . ”
who is right will depend largely on the decisions that the aiib ’ s major shareholders have made to their operations .
so far , the aiib has not sought to change the principle that the largest contributor to multilateral organizations is the largest contributors to multilateral organizations .
as the us dominates the world bank , european leadership , and the international monetary fund , china will dominate the aiib .
this means that china will assume more global leadership , including the traditional powers , which should welcome this change .
after all , leading the world is not just a matter of power , but also a global provision of public goods .
in the end of world war ii , the us was not only the world ’ s most powerful military and economic power , but also the largest supplier of global public goods , which supported the marshall plan for reconstruction in europe , supported the united nations , and provided its power to the bretton woods institutions .
but today , large debt constraints have undermined the ability of the us – not to mention the constraints of europe and japan – to continue doing so .
indeed , china could have filled the void within the bretton woods institutions , but the voting rights within these institutions are too skewed in the advanced countries , which still enjoy veto power .
for example , china has only 3.8 % voting shares in the imf and world bank , even though its share of global gdp is more than 12 % .
britain and france – only one-third of china ’ s economy – have a 4.3 % share of the vote .
the current advanced-country rulers are reluctant to give china the voting power commensurate with its economic power , and china has no choice but to establish its own institutions .
but the aiib has its own objectives , such as the world bank , to target it .
specifically , the aiib is a key component of china ’ s economic development through the “ one belt , one road ” strategy , which includes two major projects : the overland silk road belt linking china and europe to the twenty-first century , and the twenty-first century maritime silk road connecting china and southeast asia , the middle east , and europe .
while the “ pivot ” to the east is underway , china is west westward , and it has spread its development experience to its trading partners in eurasia and beyond .
perhaps most important in these experience is the crucial role of connectivity to economic growth .
over the last three decades , china ’ s roads , railways , airports , and communications systems have facilitated trade , attracting regional disparities , and reducing regional disparities by linking the country ’ s inland western and southern provinces to more prosperous eastern coast cities .
china ’ s silk road project aims to boost china ’ s trade partners largely through infrastructure investment , which is the next step in china ’ s development .
in addition to investing $ 50 billion in investment in the aiib , china has also lent $ 40 billion to its silk road fund , $ 32 billion to new capital flows to the country ’ s development bank .
according to estimates by hsbc , the “ one belt , one road ” initiative could eventually cost $ 320 billion – almost two-thirds of the world bank ’ s balance sheet in 2014 .
the $ 100 billion aiib will play a central role here .
according to the adb ’ s estimates , global infrastructure financing needs to be buoyant , and the aiib alone will need $ 8 trillion in the next decade alone , so the aiib should not be viewed as a threat to the world bank , the adb , and other multilateral lenders .
despite this , the bank will compete with other institutions , because its approach to loans differs from it .
indeed , the aiib ’ s operations would be more similar to the world bank in the 1960 ’ s , with engineers who have the experience of development experience to design the appropriate loan conditions for borrowers .
in the late 1980 ’ s , the world bank began to implement the washington consensus , pursuing economic and political liberalization that no longer fully account for local political or economic realities .
the result is conditional lending , which is often formulated by academic policy experts , leading many developing-country borrowers to meet their claims without hiring international organizations to adjust their official reporting .
the test of the aiib ’ s effectiveness will be its governance model .
one of the failures of the bretton woods institutions was that it has a full-time shareholder board to represent the will of the donor , which has always undermined the effectiveness of projects , often requiring contradictory lending conditions .
the world bank has wasted too much time being carried out by the new governor , without recognizing the fundamental problems of its governance structure .
even if the aiib fails to deliver the results of its commitments , its establishment could be an important reminder that , in a rapidly changing world , economic governance can not be stagnant .
if western leaders truly believe in innovation , competition , and meritocracy , they should welcome the aiib .
aipac ’ s decline
madrid – in the united states , aipac ’ s lobbying forces are undeniable .
but the commission ’ s supposed ability to control what america ’ s decision-making calls is really a false myth of allies and adversaries .
indeed , despite israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’ s own fine , his actions pose a threat to the commission ’ s influence .
claims on aipac have consistently implications for us foreign-policy analysis .
for example , walter walt and john mearsheimer , in his notorious essay “ israel lobby , ” asserted that the commission was responsible for the war in iraq .
what has happened recently has made the public and the commission well aware of their influential influence .
because netanyahu has been pushed by netanyahu into a war that opposes the obama administration ’ s impossibility of reaching a nuclear deal with iran , aipac is crumbling under the weight of its hubris .
in fact , the aipac never triumphed over america ’ s president , especially when it comes to national security .
it failed to stop jimmy carter from selling F 战斗机 fighter jets to saudi arabia in 1978 and failed to prevent the reagan of 里根 aircraft from sale to the saudis three years later .
the 1991 commission ’ s failure to provide a loan guarantee to prime minister yitzhak h.w and the support of the us ( one of bush ’ s most critical policies ) was similarly failed in 1991 .
against this background , the commission should know that it has attempted to unite obama ’ s republican opponents to prevent a nuclear deal with iran ( one of obama ’ s most important achievements ) .
indeed , obama has even adopted a tactic similar to that of george h.w . bush .
like bush ’ s public denunciation of “ more than a thousand lobbyists ” into the us congress ’ s 大厅 opposition to important national interests , obama said his opponents “ against iran ’ s agreement with iran , ” and naming the us democratic council about $ 20 million to oppose agreement .
he will also be called the republicans and republicans to blame the us for the us-led war in iraq .
it is not an ordinary defeat for aipac , which has always relied on a broad array of social and political forces that regard israel ’ s security as both ethical and ethical .
a crusade by the republican party ’ s support for a key agreement with the democratic party of the democratic party in his own party has posed a threat to israel ’ s american cause .
of course , nuclear agreements are involved not only in the us and iran .
the commission ’ s opposition to the united states , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the world ’ s six powers has already signed and ratified the international agreement that the united nations has approved .
even if some of israel ’ s staunchest supporters are unlikely to strike a devastating blow to america ’ s international credibility , the idea that the negotiating state would agree to a resumption of talks would be a delusion .
but that is what netanyahu set for the commission .
the disagreement over the iran deal is bound to be a defining moment for a divided american jewish community .
in fact , america ’ s 2015 统计调查 approach to american jews showed a “ two very different jewish men , ” which led to a growing number of jews who feel unable to claim their interests .
the commission represents an anomaly among american jews .
although opinion polls have repeatedly shown that jews were the most liberal ethnic communities in the united states , the commission is closer to the republican agenda and evangelical christian supporters in israel .
the fact is that american jews mostly opposed the iraq war .
they overwhelmingly vote for the democrats .
they view their religious orientation as moderate freedoms , with many advocating gay rights and abortion , both of which are anathema to evangelical christians .
most american jews even support a palestinian state .
and , while they are far from consistent with the iran deal , those who support the agreement are clearly more than their opponents .
netanyahu should be responsible for the losses suffered by the commission , the jewish community , and even the us political process .
but he is unlikely to face any retaliation .
instead , the obama administration has begun to discuss its commitment to fulfilling israel ’ s strategic capabilities .
with the middle east ’ s arab countries experiencing a growing influence over the west – israel will continue to play a stabilizing partner in the us .
more dangerous , netanyahu could achieve his next goal : to prevent the us and iran from easing strategic tensions with the country and resolving the main regional conflicts in yemen .
a bizarre coalition of iranian radicals , aipac , the saudi-led sunni alliance , the israeli government , and us politicians has forced obama ’ s administration to commit to further sanctions against terrorism .
the result is that america ’ s cold war with iran could not end .
the dawn of climate-friendly air travel
montreal – as the world becomes increasingly interconnected , the demand for air travel is growing , with more than 30,000 new aircraft expected to take place in the coming years .
but if it is to maintain the growth of air travel without aggravating global warming , it will have to reduce co2 emissions from air dioxide emissions , and the paris climate agreement , which has not been reached in more than 190 countries last december , has been agreed .
fortunately , it is time to decouple aviation emissions from the growth of aviation travel .
this week , representatives from 191 countries gathered in montreal to attend the 11th united nations international civil aviation organization ( icao ) conference ; after decades of debate , they agreed on a 气候 climate agreement .
the goal of this new icao framework is the “ carbon neutral growth growth ” that began in 2020 , which is at the heart of the global market ( GMBM ) , helping airlines to limit net emissions to the level of the 2020 level .
the initiative would be the first global industry to emit a cap on the cost of a global industry that does not cost consumers significantly .
airlines will purchase emissions reductions from other economic sectors , thereby channeling billions of dollars into low-carbon development worldwide .
in the first six years of the year , the new framework would apply only to flights of a country that voluntarily accepted the framework of voluntary acceptance that the icao must encourage adequate participation in the program .
this autonomous approach has been criticized for some criticism , but it is not irrelevant to “ voluntary ” or “ coercive ” issues , because international agreements generally apply only to sovereign states that decide to join them .
with 64 countries already willing to sign up on the icao agreement , they collectively account for more than 80 % of co2 emissions by 2020 .
while 100 % of that is not true , it is a good start , and we expect more countries to join the benefits of achieving low-carbon development .
the airlines themselves would welcome a global framework that establishes clear and predictable compliance standards , rather than facing regulatory frameworks that are complicated by countries ’ fragmented and confusing international operations .
to minimize compliance costs – and because environmental sustainability is now a key competitive market for customers and investors – airlines may encourage the country to join the icao program .
the new agreement provides important opportunities to prevent the first 15 billion tons of co2 from the first 15 years – equivalent to an annual reduction of around 350 million cars .
the agreement will also spur cleaner technologies like boeing , airbus , bombardier , and brazil ’ s air , thereby reducing the purchase of emission deductions , which have already begun to invest in more quiet , fuel-efficient aircraft , and improve existing ones .
but the framework identified in montreal is incomplete , and it must be accelerated to develop key details that enable airlines to begin planning how to achieve new environmental goals .
developed countries have already proposed solutions that help to implement the GMBM , and hope that it can pave the way for investments in emerging economies that are increasingly in the new air power .
if one can leapfrog over old technologies , it can become a new leader in a new , smart airplane .
they should take advantage of the opportunity to join the icao framework so that producers are clear and predictable .
at last year ’ s paris climate talks , we saw the power of global cooperation to address climate change .
many of the 187 countries – small , developed , and small – announced their emissions-reduction targets for months before meeting , creating a landmark agreement .
with the paris climate agreement coming into force a few months later – faster than anyone expected – we remain in this momentum .
the icao agreement is a new wave of international war against climate change .
together , these two agreements will increase opportunities for environmentally sustainable economic growth .
by starting to clear our carbon footprint from now , future air travelers , whether from any country , can learn from a healthy planet .
europe ’ s airpocalypse
asia , especially china , is the favorite target .
indeed , sometimes , it is incomplete to say that any major environmental conference is in short supply in europe ’ s so-called “ best practices ” to emulate europe .
but , when it comes to air pollution , europe is still doing more talking .
air pollution is becoming a major concern for europe .
the world health organization called it “ the continent ’ s biggest environmental health risk , ” an estimated 90 % of european citizens are exposed to outdoor pollution that exceeds the who ’ s air-quality compass .
in 2010 , about 600,000 european citizens died prematurely because of outdoor and indoor air pollution , while economic costs were $ 1.6 trillion , equivalent to about 9 % of the eu ’ s gdp .
london and paris suffer from severe air-quality problems .
二氧化氮 levels in some parts of london have sometimes reached 2-3 times the recommended limit .
in the united kingdom , air pollution kills more than 11,000 people every year , after the second premature death of smoking .
the situation in paris is even worse than in london ; in march , the level of air pollution in paris was more than shanghai ’ s , and it had to implement a partial and free bus .
sadly , european policymakers do not seem to face up to the challenge .
chancellor of the exchequer george osborne opposed britain ’ s leadership in the fight against climate change .
“ we won ’ t stop our 轧钢厂 , 炼 , and paper paper , ” he said in 2011 .
osborne is not alone .
it is no surprise that european politicians believe that introducing environmental protection mechanisms will affect the eu economy , which is not surprising , so it is not surprising that measures to contain air pollution are far from demanding .
according to the green peace organization ’ s report , it is not even china ’ s strict standards for limiting emissions from coal-fired power plants .
but many european politicians have also demanded a further cut in the country , and hungary argues that it should abandon it altogether .
to be sure , air pollution levels in asia are indeed worrisome .
according to yale university ’ s 2014 air quality ranking , nine of the world ’ s ten most polluted countries are in asia .
new delhi is ranked at the top of the earth ’ s urban pollution , and air pollution exceeds 60 times the level of security .
because of the health of beijing ’ s air , foreign companies must pay a “ hardship fee ” to employees in beijing .
but at least policymakers in asia recognize the problem and take action to address it .
china , for example , has declared a “ war on pollution . ”
by 2017 , beijing , once hailed by the international media as “ 霾 , ” would spend €700 billion ( $ 121 billion ) on air pollution .
at the heart of china ’ s efforts is to improve public transportation , green trade , and change the energy structure .
the government has set up every 500 meters of the city ’ s center in the city city , bringing down tariffs on 54 environmental products to 5 % or less .
the share of primary fuels in primary fuel consumption will rise to 20 % by 2030 .
these goals are likely to be implemented rigorously , because they receive strong political support at the top .
meanwhile , in gujarat , maharashtra , and tamil nadu , states such as gujarat , maharashtra , and tamil nadu are prepared to implement the world ’ s first cap-and-trade system .
other asian countries are taking steps to improve air quality .
vietnam aims to build a 八条 urban rail network in the coming years .
bangkok has governed air pollution since the 1990s , producing 400,000 trees .
japan , too , has introduced subsidies for hydrogen cars and opened new 步行 areas .
europe , one of the world ’ s richest regions , should be at the forefront of promoting environmental sustainability .
but , on air pollution , european policymakers should stop preaching and focus on solving their problems .
japan ’ s transformation ?
osaka – yesterday ’ s landslide victory in the democratic party of japan ( dpj ) , the democratic party of japan ( dpj ) , ended the ldp ’ s all-powerful one-party system , from 1955 to control over the ldp .
over the past decade , the dpj has been considered an alternative party for the ldp , despite the size of the 伪两党 system .
twenty years after the end of the cold war , japan is finally on the verge of establishing a 体系 system of government .
even now , the japanese public remains skeptical about the dpj ’ s ability to govern power and the attractiveness of a wealth redistribution that lacks funding .
it is also clear that the public ’ s ideological blinders are not realistic , coherent diplomacy , and security policies .
but the public ’ s aversion to the ldp has brought the dpj to the next government .
for four years , the ldp has utterly ignored the critical issues of public attention , unemployment , and the deterioration of the social safety net .
moreover , the ldp has been plagued by a series of scandals , and has always shown poor governance capacity .
the ldp ’ s replacement of three prime ministers for more than a year has said that the party ’ s core power is breaking down .
after assuming power , the dpj will immediately face a large bureaucracy and entrenched mandarins , which will willfully undermine any administrative reform that threatens its power and vested interests .
indeed , the election is just over , and the next fiscal year will have to be submitted .
the budget numbers require a cumbersome process , which will require the bureaucracy to speak closely with the ldp .
so , without the cyclically adjusted budget cycle , the dpj will be forced to impose a supplementary budget plan for the ldp , and it must accept the next annual budget , which reflects the democratic party ’ s 政策 policies .
thus , the dpj has announced plans to abolish the ldp ’ s rules , eliminating caps on budget applications , so that it would be able to set its own budget on its own budget .
but time is short , and few democratic lawmakers have the legislative experience and budgetary expertise needed to achieve the goal .
in order to control the bureaucracy , the democrats plan for 100 lawmakers to fill the ministries ’ top leadership , and appoint three dozen political appointees to work on the office of the prime minister ’ s office .
unfortunately , democrats rejected a 公务员 civil-service reform act , which could have allowed the democrats to replace mandarins with political appointees .
the democrats , however , seem unprepared to tame the bureaucracy , and thus may eventually have to accept them .
the superiority of the mandarins goes back to the unique historical development of japan ’ s modern history .
unlike in europe , japan has established a state in a strong civil society .
in fact , the full range of “ social ” construction began only after the 1868 meiji restoration began , leading to the balance of power to the state .
the mandarins survived world war ii with the postwar us occupation , and they also survived the democratic government ’ s term .
the liberal democratic party ( ldp ) and the mandarins created a regular process , with the mandarins responsible for the cabinet ’ s bill , legislation to review , and then submit to the final draft resolution , and then submit to the parliamentary vote .
since the ldp ’ s recent alliance with coalition partners to control the parliament , the legislative process became the interaction between the liberal democratic party ’ s headquarters and the mandarins ’ mandarins .
parliament played a mere role .
indeed , under the ldp ’ s one-party system , the constitutional mechanism has become an integral part of the japanese government ’ s polity .
the dpj government will collide directly with the bureaucracy , partly because the democrats are unable to recruit enough qualified policymakers .
the mandarins have maintained their privileged position in these areas , thanks partly to the tax system ’ s resistance to the emergence of non-profit institutions , especially think tanks , and independent policy knowledge is needed .
moreover , perhaps anticipating changes in power , the mandarins have pushed the annual personnel change in the main ministries ’ top ministries .
so what will the ldp do ?
after losing power , it will control the redistribution of government money .
failure to deliver on the benefits of their supporters could lead to a breakup of the break-up , because the ldp has never been able to support the manipulation of power and machines through the connectivity of local communities , occupations , and indigenous communities .
only by absorbing new blood and rebuilding a strong ideology will the ldp be able to regain power .
the dpj ’ s grassroots support is even weaker , so the mandarins are most likely to use their standard of divide-and-rule tactics , 诱骗 the democrats , like the ldp , to use state funds and government contracts to give back major supporters of trade unions and other interests .
the birth of the dpj government could still be a turning point .
a transition to “ social ” power has occurred .
if the democrats were to escape the control of the mandarins by concentrating on policy decisions , as they wish to do , japan can become a more dynamic democracy , with a better two-party system , and more willing to play the role of international leadership .
a jobless recovery ?
cambridge – who will suffer the most from the wall street storm and the ensuing global recession in 2008-2009 ?
not the bankers and financiers who created this disaster .
some financiers , like bernard madoff , have tried to jail .
but , while madoff ’ s scandal is the tip of an iceberg of rampant financial penalties , most of the usual financiers didn ’ t need to worry about arrest , because their actions are often the only marginal edges of law , or because they are often more subtle than outright fraud .
some bank bosses would be left behind , but it would be massively compensated to relieve their pain – for example , the $ 50 million “ golden 降落伞 ” of the bank of america ’ s bank of america , as fred 歌德 , the royal bank of scotland ’ s bank of scotland , receives $ 25 million .
yet , after receiving emergency funding , guarantees , and low interest rates , many banks have been paying huge bonuses for top managers , while vigorously opposing reforms aimed at limiting their risk-taking and compensation .
the big losers from this economic disaster are workers in those developed countries that favor laissez-faire capitalism .
from 2007 to october 2009 , the us lost nearly eight million jobs , and employment rates fell from 63 % to 17.3 % .
the unemployment rate at the end of 2009 was more than 10 % , the longest duration of the unemployment rate since the great depression , and millions of people have worked shorter hours , and millions of people have lost their jobs in their jobs .
europe ’ s advanced countries , canada , and japan have also suffered serious unemployment , and they will continue to take a long time .
spain ’ s unemployment rate , which allows temporary contracts to exist widely , is the largest , because the spanish workers were fired as fast as us workers .
some countries – for example , germany , sweden , and south korea – pay for companies , allowing them to retain official workers , “ hide ” unemployment .
this may be effective in the short term , but it can not be sustained over time .
in the united states , where the economic recovery under president bill clinton has been jobless , there was a jobless recovery in the latter part of the 1990 ’ s .
in the early 1990 ’ s , sweden suffered a massive recession from a housing bubble and banking crisis , rising from 1.8 % in 1990 to 9.6 % in 1994 , to 5 % in 2001 .
after 16 years of crisis , the unemployment rate reached 6.2 % – more than triple the level in 1990 .
in 1997 , south korea was hit not only by the asian financial crisis , but also by insisting that the us and the international monetary fund continue to raise interest rates and implement reforms similar to the washington consensus .
employment has recovered , but mainly because of the limited benefits of welfare , low wages , and little job security .
south korea ’ s gap between rich and poor rises from moderate moderate to the second high ( after the us ) among advanced countries .
weakness in the job market has severely harmed the economy ’ s health and individual wellbeing .
the economic losses that young people and workers who are seeking a first job in a weak job market are affected by the economic loss of their lives .
studies of happiness show that unemployment is a blow to happiness as much as loss of a 至亲 .
the us is hard to achieve full employment anytime soon .
from 1993 to 1998 , the us created millions of jobs , and the employment rate rose by 5.4 percentage points .
if employment begins to rise at this rate in 2010 , it will be reached before 2015 .
the slow recovery in the us economy will drag down other developed countries , reducing their employment .
a long and painful high unemployment rate is the opposite of what most experts believe in flexible american economic models .
from the early 1990 ’ s , many analysts viewed america ’ s lax trade unions , any hiring relationship , limited legal protections for work , and frequent job rotation as a major factor in the unemployment rate of most eu countries .
many oecd countries have launched various kinds of reform reforms to improve their economies .
viewing flexibility as a key factor in employment is no longer tenable .
the oecd took a careful look at their preferred policy reforms in 2009 , finding that such reforms are inadequate to help countries adapt to a recession caused by the financial sector .
according to the oecd , “ there is no strong reason to believe that recent structural reforms will effectively reduce the oecd ’ s labor-market sensitivity to severe economic contraction . ”
the lesson of the recession is clear .
the weakness of capitalism is not the labor market , but the financial markets .
in the worst case , the recession in the labor market would be only modest , but capital markets ’ decline would hurt society considerably , while workers , not the financial disaster , are responsible for the worst .
moreover , globalization means that us capital markets will have a significant impact on global capital markets .
we owe the workers who are harmed by the recession , and the need for financial systems to transform real economic development , rather than enriching the financiers .
this means changing the incentives and rules of the financial sector .
other countries ’ economic and jobs are also at stake , so they must also push for meaningful financial reform in the us .
france ’ s midsummer night ’ s dream
paris – bastille day was france ’ s 国定假日 , and this year was glorious .
a military parade that celebrates “ victory ” in mali and the united nations ’ joint participation in african and un forces is a fantastic mirage – though it was a muscular 芭蕾 .
the eiffel tower imbued the evening with its magic .
and , regardless of who is , the doubts about the 何 remain the world .
the years of repression in france were forgotten .
the celebration of the glory of the past , accompanied by english songs and performance , seems to be demonstrating national confidence .
what does it mean for this moment of grace ?
is it the product of a group ’ s delusion , and is it that the authorities encourage ( if not convincing ) the emotional wave of the 情感 of france ’ s national pride in some ways .
even if positive emotions eventually disappear ( the most likely scenario ) , they are also real and easy to capture .
the french are in the mood to celebrate .
of course , the reason is only weather – after a painful spring that is finally at last .
but it may also be one of the turning points of the natural turning point , and it is a collective and determined decision : “ enough suppression , let us move forward . ”
the celebrations seem to be saying that the french may no longer be the old french , but we are still better off than people think .
we have a great revolution in the past , which still conveys universal values – liberty , equality , fraternity , and fraternity ; we have the military , and mali demonstrated that our army still holds a different world .
in this collective escapism , two stand out .
first , there is a potential new collective approach to the number of repression and mistrust within france .
of course , this would require a more determined political elite , with the sake of its own petty ambitions and small dissent .
the second more obvious is that reality can not be changed by a wonderful public spectacle .
france is not roman rome , where bread and games ( panem and 游戏 ) can make a fundamental difference .
france is a democracy that has weakened its democracies deeply and economically , on the brink of identity .
the third leg of the bastille day provides a demonstration of the 军事 and 烟花 music of the morning : president françois hollande published a national speech with a national speech this year .
hollande , too , is a reassuring one .
in hollande ’ s view , the economic upturn – the recovery – is just beginning , and hope is just emerging .
his tone and rhetoric have changed .
he was no longer the “ normal man ” during his campaign and his tenure ; on the contrary , he tried to make himself like his predecessor , nicolas sarkozy , as a superstar .
of course , judging by his personality and low public support , his speech was the most outrageous event in bastille day .
who could have said that the economic upturn that hollande announced is real , not aspirational ?
in addition to hollande ’ s wishful thinking , the public ’ s reaction to hollande ’ s response is not trusting and indifference .
watching my friend ( both french ) and the friends of hollande ’ s speech , i recall another moment .
that was on december 31 , 1989 , when i was in the soviet union .
i heard a restaurant in the old city of 苏兹达 , listening to president mikhail gorbachev ’ s “ new year 祝词 . ”
but i am the only person to address his speech .
the restaurant ’ s rest , like my french friends now , cares little about gorbachev .
their president has become a 背景噪声 .
in this sense , hollande was a french gorbachev ?
for the left and the greens , he is close to being a traitor .
these voters chose him a year ago not only because he was not sarkozy , but also because he was the embodiment of the real left , though his centrist position was not a good omen .
centrist voters , even center-right , feel disappointed , because the president lacks charisma ( if not outright incompetence ) .
after a year of hollande , france is undergoing a fundamental political revolution .
in the half-century of the fifth republic , the two-party and the two-party system has become traditional .
but now france is turning into a country dominated by “ 三党制 , ” the left , the right , and the far right .
if france wants to take advantage of the positive sentiment of bastille day , it will need a more responsible elite , ready to unite in order to defeat unemployment and its causes ( the lack of competitiveness and the rise of the labor market ) and the consequences ( the rise of populism and influence ) .
as bastille day showed , the potential power of france , despite both weakness and shallow – and shallow – unity .
but doing so will require more than just superficial promises .
opening peace
yerevan – armenia ’ s president , nicolas sarkozy , recently invited turkish president abdullah gul to visit yerevan to watch a football match , a historic event .
given the long march , this trip is unusual at any time .
but this is a mere month in russia and georgia , where the visit may well give people hope that tensions in the volatile caucasus can be eased .
of course , tensions between armenia and turkey are long-established .
but now it is time for both countries to follow through on common security concerns .
given the new environment in georgia , it is clear that turkey is keen to become a genuine bridge between the caucasus countries .
the expectation is that turkey ’ s geography and history are determined .
turkey is metaphors to be found in modern and traditional , secular , and islamic , secular , and islamic , and between democracy and autocracy .
for people in the caucasus , turkey marks the path to europe .
turkey is a nato member , bordering three caucasus countries , all of which have nato ’ s single partnership action plan .
turkey aspires to join the eu and will bring the eu to our three borders , and even we yearn for one day to join the eu .
indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to become a regional broker .
after the soviet union ’ s collapse , it immediately proposed the creation of the black sea fleet .
this year , when the middle east peace initiative , the armenian peace initiative , is in place , turkey has pursued a mediator between the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel .
now that the crisis in russia and georgia is over , turkey ’ s leaders have once again taken the lead in the caucasus .
but , in order to succeed , turkey must firmly pursue the commitments of all of its region ’ s countries to abandon its use of force .
if this commitment is adopted and respected , one can look at the region ’ s various conflicts of conflict and be more tolerant .
indeed , why not make this agreement even more compelling ?
i believe that the region ’ s countries should and can call for a non-aligned caucasus , without security alliances or hostile alliances .
after all , the security challenge is accompanied by these security alliances and guarantees .
our country and people have historically lived under a common structure , with a long history of division .
today , we share a shared vision for europe , which we should be able to resolve .
french president nicolas sarkozy and german chancellor angela merkel ’ s visit to georgia and germany demonstrate that , for europe , the caucasus is not an alternative .
only europe can play a real role in this region ’ s suspicion and intolerance .
ultimately , however , we must be willing to work toward building regional peace and cooperation .
the caucasus is not very small and closed borders and explosive conflicts .
although some tensions seem to be purely bilateral , the conflict in georgia and russia demonstrates that , in this globalized world , and there is no bilateral tension in this interconnected region .
indeed , real peace in the caucasus requires two key strategic shifts .
the first is to learn from the lessons of history .
russia ’ s strategic interests in the region should not be ignored , and it will lead to regional chaos .
the second lesson is that turkey and armenia can not be adversaries forever .
relations must normalize to enable the caucasus to become a functional region .
ironically , both russia and the us recognize that this is in their interest .
russia , according to russia , would normalize relations between georgia and armenia to minimize georgia ’ s strategic role in the region .
the us , it is argued , would be able to open up armenia to russia ’ s actual and imagined dependence on russia .
beyond the emotional impact of president gul ’ s visit to yerevan , the relationship between turkey and armenia actually improved the border between the two countries .
or , as a starting point , existing rail links between the two countries should be made operational .
if this can not be achieved within the next few weeks or months , turkey will show that all of this is just a show .
president gul ’ s visit does have a watershed , which is either impossible to create history or start a new era .
truth and consequences
new york – the recent re-election of colombia ’ s president , juan manuel santos , has brought hope to an end to the country ’ s decades-long conflict .
but , like many other peace processes , finding a balance between the stability pact and the terrible injustices that it recognizes in conflict may be difficult to achieve .
many countries and groups from nepal to northern ireland have been struggling to address the legacy of ethnic , ideological , religious divisions , and violence , but successful precedents are rare .
after all , a mechanism for dealing with post-conflict reconciliation , truth , and justice has not been enough .
but the victims complain that its procedures are slow ; many bosnian serbs believe that courts are selective and politically motivated .
the government ’ s agreement to establish a truth commission between nepal ’ s government and maoist guerrillas was delayed for seven years .
when legislators finally enacted the authorizing act of may 2013 , the victim found the commission ’ s right to recommend amnesty for crimes against humanity , violated international principles and un guidance .
the good friday agreement , which northern ireland ’ s termination of the bloodshed and initiated reconciliation , deserves to be praised for the victims ’ frustration – a mechanism to establish a mechanism to investigate past crimes – with a strong political backlash .
peace talks are right to fear that criminal liability for past crimes would threaten the security of their leaders and supporters .
many are based on a misinterpretation of south africa ’ s experience that truth commissions are more “ soft ” than justice justice .
they are thus willing to put these mechanisms in peace agreements ( conveniently ignoring the victims ’ forced choice between justice and truth ) .
one should expect that , as the truth commissions become part of a transitional justice , former armed militants have become increasingly worried about their reputations and political credibility .
understanding the truth is fraught with unease and anguish , but it will have serious consequences for those who have reason to fear sanctions .
in fact , the truth about the truth and transitional justice of the truth commissions is not because it is punished for the worst crimes ; on the contrary , they have enacted a comprehensive , comprehensive law and policy based on rights .
the recent symposium , hosted by the kofi annan foundation and the international transitional justice center , concluded that the truth commissions are contributing the most to peace by restoring the rule of law , recognizing victims ’ rights , and supporting institutional reforms .
but the truth is that effective , independent , and legal .
half-measures is unlikely .
so it is never like nepal to turn the truth into a symbolic institution that alleviates local or international public opinion .
even if the broader task and functions of the task were established entirely through well-intentioned intentions , the truth commissions often lack the necessary resources , leading to further frustration and disillusion .
moreover , the commission should not be allowed to lead or participate in people with questionable rights , or risk undermining the process .
in short , the truth commissions must be adapted to the country ’ s circumstances .
we are already seeing the nature and resolution of conflicts in bosnia , colombia , nepal , northern ireland , and elsewhere ; so the commission should be given the principle of leverage .
“ one-size-fits-all ” solutions are unfit for any country .
it is important to understand and implement the details of each case of transitional justice .
it is political leaders ’ best mistake to ignore victims or conceal the truth when trying to sign peace agreements .
but achieving a lasting condition for lasting peace is to recognize the rights of victims .
no one ’ s political agreement is at the expense of human suffering and the dignity of victims .
finally , we must recognize the lessons of the past : justice is not just an ideal ; it is also investment in a better future .
alan greenspan on trial
alan greenspan , having published his 回忆录 memoir in the years of turbulence , triggered the criticism that he was not a great central banker .
the national journal of journal national journal has found that the white house ’ s shadow : greenspan was a stern critic of the bush administration , and his credibility against the credibility of a republican former policymaker who criticized bush for criticism .
but what is to be done about greenspan ’ s tenure as the fed ’ s career ?
this accusation includes four points : greenspan mistakenly encouraged the growth of non-standard , variable mortgages , and that was a mistake for the housing bubble ; he was wrong to implement bush ’ s tax cuts ; he could have stopped the stock market bubble in the 1990 ’ s .
he said that he did not understand why the growth of non-standard mortgages would induce borrowers and investors to flock to risk .
he now says that the wrong interest in a fixed interest rate was a bad interest for borrowers at a time of low inflation .
greenspan also pleads guilty to the mistake of 2001 .
he thought he would be right to listen to the government budget problem .
he testified that using surplus debt was important . but the size of the fiscal surplus can not be so large that governments ultimately control the us industry .
he testified that the tax cuts would be more expensive than higher spending , but , while it also has considerable uncertainty , there is considerable uncertainty that any tax cuts that could bring us back to the fiscal deficit should be scrapped .
robert rubin and kent conrad warned that the press does not believe that his testimony was appropriate , and that congress would interpret it as an excuse to abandon fiscal discipline .
they were right .
greenspan also pleads a misunderstanding of the character of the bush administration .
he thought that he was back in power in the 注重 old friends of the ford administration .
he thought that he – and treasury secretary paul o ’ neill – can win a sensible policy without resorting to the “ external game ” that might make him re-elected in 2004 .
he was wrong .
but how serious are these now guilty policies – political crimes ?
in my view , they are small offenses .
you have to put them in the context of former finance minister larry summers as the backdrop of greenspan ’ s “ golden glove ” ( that is , to avoid and contain recessions during his years ) .
the charge for greenspan ’ s two “ sins ” is that he should work harder to stop stock-market bubbles in the 1990 ’ s and the early 2000s .
on both counts , greenspan was committed to offending him .
he said that the only way to keep stock prices under a reasonable balance in the late 1990 ’ s is to push interest rates high to the level of the economy .
interest rates are high enough to curb stock market speculation , and would contain construction and other forms of investment , boost unemployment , and bring the economy into recession .
greenspan ’ s belief that a brutal strategy to circumvent the dangers of the future is unwise and unwise is unwise and unwise .
in this case , he has followed the consistently prudent tradition of john maynard keynes .
greenspan has taken a similar defense against the housing bubble .
high employment in the construction industry has been good for us workers in the last five years – a period that has generally benefited them in general .
with higher interest rates to cool the overheated housing market , it would be undesirable if the cost is massive unemployment .
and greenspan has avoided paternalism : he does not want to play a role as a regulator to tell people that even if lenders are willing to finance their own role .
but greenspan would have been better off the us and the world if he had a little more paternalism in slowing the growth of non-standard 利率 mortgages .
if he is not a loyal republican , he is working to persuade bush ’ s political advisers to believe in the importance of good policies , and that the us and the world , more willing to do so , would be better prepared to do so .
of course , such a greenspan would not win re-election .
in short , greenspan was responsible for the us and the world when he took office in monetary policy , particularly his 有所不为 : trying to stop stock markets and housing speculation by slowing the economy .
new york – next year will mark the 20th anniversary of the collapse of communism in europe .
it is no longer clear that the younger generation of eastern europe , which is not accustomed to a cruel past , seems to have no interest in what their parents and grandparents endured .
yet the recent revelation that the czech writer kundera could be engaged in an era of stalinism was just one example of the long memory of the past .
i have also been reminded of other similar examples : lech wałęsa was accused of collusion with secret police , romania ’ s public debate in the past , and attacks on the so-called “ jewish bear ” have almost equivalent to the attacks on the holocaust .
nietzsche once said that if you look at the devil ’ s eyes too long , you might be the devil .
the bolsheviks , like the dogmatism of communism itself , have repeatedly raged in eastern europe .
in a country after another , this 二元论 mindset , which is either too simplistic or manipulated , is merely 粉饰 for a new generation of services in power .
and , of course , there is some opportunism .
when the red army occupied romania in 1945 , the party ’ s members were not members of 1,000 ; in 1989 , the figure was nearly 40 million .
after the execution of ceausescu ’ s execution , most of these people suddenly turned into the 体制 of the anti-communist and decades that they serve for decades .
the residual traces of totalitarian thinking can still be seen in the hostility to dissidents such as adam 米 or václav havel , both of which argue that new democratic governments should not create resentment or seek revenge , as authoritarian states do , but rather to push the entire country into a truly civilized society .
the members of the secret police , and the members of the communist party-state elite , live independently in their comfort houses , in their comfort houses , when they see political persecution and manipulation of the old files .
but the case of kundera seems different , though it is equally disturbing .
in 1950 , kundera was reported to have been reported to be the 共产党员 of the communist party of 昆德拉 , who called himself a western spy , a friend of his friend ’ s girlfriend .
that man was later brutally interrogated in the former gestapo torture , and was later jailed for 14 years .
kundera ’ s name was found in investigating officials ’ report , a respected historian who confirmed after a respected historian in prague .
kundera , who has lived in 1975 to paris , now 生活 , declared that “ it never happened . ”
moreover , czechoslovakia ’ s fearsome secret police , which had taken various measures to silence or compromise , have never used this incident to blackmail or expose kundera .
before he and the government provide more information before the government ’ s authority , the matter could not be “ reasonable . ”
but if it happens , the matter calls for deeper reflection .
according to our knowledge , kundera has never been 告密者 before or after the incident , and we can not forget that he has since moved away from the forced totalitarian happiness that communism spread .
in fact , his case was reminiscent of the most brutal period of “ dictatorship ” in eastern europe in the early 1950s , during which tremendous enthusiasm and gruesome fear poisoned the ideas and souls of pious believers , the opposition , and helpless bystanders .
moreover , kundera is a case in point .
in 2006 , the nobel laureate german writer günter grass was exposed to a 60 years ago when he was a member of a 党卫队 孩子 .
similarly , a few years ago , the world shocked the famous italian writer 纳齐 西隆 , who had collaborated with the fascist police .
daily life , whether communism or fascist rule , is often a profound duplicity , which would have far-reaching consequences .
i disagree with those who believe that we should not be interested in a great writer ’ s life in dark times .
why not ?
we are interested not in exposing him , but to a deeper understanding of a bloody , 蛊惑 , and authoritarian utopia and vulnerability to a 血腥 , 弱点 , and 脆弱性 .
a prominent example is the romanian philosopher 诺恰卡 诺恰卡 ’ s followers to support the fascist 铁卫团 and later with the communist party , while a clean , clean worker who was even accused of a secret police .
shouldn ’ t that mine be considered for her family , children , and her own survival ?
life under authoritarian rule is an extreme condition that requires us to apply special , nuanced rules to all of its victims .
to understand this era , we must understand and carefully judge that it is often vague and overwhelming , and that millions of people don ’ t live today in a simplified manner of political purpose .
not , even to forgive , we must know what we forgive .
in eastern europe today , older and young people have benefited from that lesson .
morsi and his people had been in the desert for 40 years , until they were in their own toxic slave mentality .
the albanian miracle
tirana – five years ago , albania faced an ominous situation .
as greece and italy suffer from the euro crisis , the country ’ s remittances and capital inflows have both fallen and the economy slowed .
the fiscal deficit soared to more than 7 % of gdp , and to the extent that external financial markets have collapsed and domestic interest rates soared , with fiscal deficits largely limited to credit .
moreover , the country ’ s distribution firms are in the midst of a financial crisis and financial crisis , because it can not afford to pay for electricity from producers of electricity generation .
the arrears of governments and utilities have led to a sharp increase in non-performing loans in the banking system .
it is there that all the ingredients of a disaster are there .
fast-forward to the current : in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services , respectively , the economy is growing at a brisk 4.2 % pace .
at a time when emerging-market economies like argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa face sharp declines in their exchange rates and rising interest rates , albania ’ s interest rate is at its lowest level and a persistent appreciation of the currency .
the country ’ s current sovereign interest-rate spreads are among the lowest in the same ratings hierarchy , suggesting that markets believe that rating agencies are too careless .
as a european north korea ruled by communist dictator 霍查 霍查 , albania ’ s per capita income level is now 25 % in germany .
as it stands , it will reach germany ’ s current income level by 32 years .
while economists are blamed for a variety of frustrating events , multilateral institutions such as the international monetary fund and the world bank have been criticized for failing to provide the appropriate advice to countries , and that albania is surprisingly convinced that it is .
what is the secret of albania ’ s turnaround ?
for starters , when many countries delay the clock so long as they delay the timing , prime minister 拉玛 拉玛 called the international monetary fund in september 2013 .
his government then negotiated a program that enabled albania to finance its fiscal order while achieving fiscal support .
the three-year plan was about two years ago , and the debt-to-gdp ratio continued to fall .
this year , the value fell by 2.5 % , even as the country is expanding its public investment budget significantly .
to achieve growth in the process of fiscal consolidation , it will require taking advantage of other factors – especially exports – to pull the economy .
the experience of albania ’ s research program , which has led harvard ’ s international development research center since 2013 , is not due to luck , but because people have worked tirelessly to eliminate bottlenecks and take advantage of the bottlenecks .
in this process , albania eschewed the temptation to focus on the db indicators that are focused on certain indicators of doing business , which assumes that randomly selected and following some international best practices can reap some results .
instead , the authorities adopted a diagnostic approach to determine its policies ’ priorities .
this approach has led to plenty of ideas that proved highly effective .
in agriculture , the development of a firm ’ s development helps farmers acquire advanced technologies and more lucrative markets , creating a boom in vegetable exports .
in the power sector , the government has used an unconventional strategy to change people ’ s electricity theft and liability , leaving the distribution company cash flow to nearly 2 % of gdp in 2015 .
likewise , the consultative group in manufacturing and tourism has identified areas needed to improve .
albania is investing in repairing its old cities , and it is now targeting 100 villages with strong agricultural tourism potential but just as it is in poor regions .
no wonder tourism has risen double-digit growth .
moreover , the country ’ s foreign ambassadors are now taking a concerted strategy to promote foreign investment through direct engagement .
policymakers are now leading albania ’ s diaspora to play an important role – because they are an important source of talent , investment , market opportunities , and business ingenuity .
these innovations are not just the national level .
市长 维 , the mayor of tirana , has tripled municipal income since taking office in 2015 and used the benefits to become one of the most pleasant cities in the region .
albania ’ s capital has won several european awards for its high-quality development of high-quality urban spaces and to address human mobility and environmental problems .
the lesson for other countries is clear .
to succeed in difficult circumstances , the government realized that its dilemma and weakness are clear and set to define and develop their own goals and seek ways to achieve their aspirations .
in the process , each country is not in the cards .
international financial assistance , spearheaded by the imf and the development financial institutions , can help .
but countries must figure out when and how best to use them .
they can enhance governments ’ capacity , but they can not substitute for government commitments .
the lesson is clear in the eu : when considering the absorption of albania and other western balkan countries , it is important not only to focus on these countries ’ circumstances but also to focus on the enthusiasm of their own ideals .
for most of its history , albania looked hopeless .
but despair itself can not survive forever .
now albania ’ s transformation has become a source of hope for the rest of us .
toward a more reflective planet
cambridge – the last time the atmosphere contains the same amount of co2 with the same amount of co2 today , the same is true of three million years ago , when sea levels are higher than ten meters today .
climate models have long worked hard to replicate the dramatic fluctuations in sea levels – until now .
indeed , for the first time in history , a high-quality antarctic ice and climate model can mimic these large swings .
this is 智能科学 , but it is disastrous .
the new model suggests that melting in antarctica alone can increase global sea levels by one meter – well above previous estimates .
making matters worse , models suggest that even if the extraordinary success of cutting emissions is successful , it can not save the west antarctic ice sheet , which would eventually increase the rise in sea levels .
a mere one meter of sea-level rise would be able to risk the risk that a city from miami to mumbai will face the city , leading to massive economic disruption .
to this end , albedo modification – a kind of geological project aimed at increasing the earth ’ s atmosphere – has a great deal .
for example , injecting synthetic aerosols that reflect sunlight into the stratosphere can help contain the warming of greenhouse gases .
the mechanism is similar to that of the summer : white reflect sunlight and makes the appearance of something more cooler ; and 深色 absorb sunlight and heat up .
to be sure , even in the best scenario , solar geoengineering alone can not stabilize the world ’ s climate .
we must stop pumping carbon pollution into the atmosphere , and learn how to remove carbon emissions in the atmosphere .
this is why most resources should be used to combat climate change .
but , as recent research shows , emissions cuts alone can not save the west antarctic ice sheet and prevent catastrophic sea-level rise .
if , however , albedo modification is a modest change in albedo modification , there is an opportunity to stop rising temperatures , help to keep the world within 1.5°c of pre-industrial levels , and the more radical goal reached in paris last december .
( it should be noted , given the 碳循环 thaw , that , even today , the world ’ s temperature increases could reach 1.5° celsius . )
today , most of the world ’ s climate models have explored albedo modification , and both find that the process does have the potential to mitigate climate change .
beyond limiting aggregate warming , it can help to contain rising peak temperatures and reduce the risk of destructive heat waves .
and it seems particularly effective in reducing extreme rainfall , which is unlikely to be minimized .
albedo modification remains uncertain and risky , partly because organized research is too few .
and , in fact , albedo modification will undoubtedly make something worse .
but no climate model suggests that a modest intervention would make any region worse off .
moreover , the huge potential benefits ( $ 1.5 million ) compared to low direct costs – all of which require only billions of dollars – compare sharply .
in fact , albedo modification is very cheap , and direct costs will not be decisive .
rather , it is a risk trade-off – and more research is needed to assess .
given the lack of knowledge , smart people will not deploy albedo modification today .
but it should not be ignored .
after all , no one would argue that we should abandon a promising cancer drug without confirmation .
the us national academy of sciences first focused on the issue in a 1983 report , as the “ climate change . ”
in 1992 and 2015 , the us academy of sciences recommended careful research .
the main environmental organization , such as the environmental protection fund and the natural-resource defense council , supports a careful range of studies .
but these programs are not .
one reason is that the resources to worry about other approaches are dispersed .
of course , there are trade-offs .
but the us , for example , has a climate science budget of around $ 3 billion per year .
a solar geoengineering project for solar geoengineering will cost only tens of millions of dollars annually .
perhaps , but if you had a pleasant effect on the mice simply because you had a therapeutic cancer cure , you must be mad .
and , indeed , one can imagine that a concerted effort to change albedo modification can spur action to reduce emissions , as evidenced by photos of the effects of chemotherapy .
whichever response , the moral imperative to explore the technology that will protect the poorest and most vulnerable communities in this century seems to outweigh the piecemeal concerns that doing so could weaken the incentive to pursue solutions that would yield significant benefits to future generations .
china has launched a limited study of albedo modification .
the us has not .
given that albedo modification is an essential study of open , transparent , and international research – which is what the us is doing – it is a grave failure .
as it stands , the us government should lead albedo modification .
even if albedo modification does not , the dividends generated by these studies will be enormous , because it would bring more pressure on emissions reduction .
and , if successful , its social , environmental , and economic returns will be sweeping .
india ’ s prohibition hypocrisy
new delhi – last month , the people of 18 indian bihar ( bihar ) died after consuming illicit alcohol , highlighting the strange relationship between india ’ s strange moral and tragedy .
the victims were poisoned causes of this april ’ s draconian legal prohibition on alcohol sales , possession , and consumption of alcohol .
this is not india ’ s first major ban .
in india , where a national hero was considered a national hero , drinking alcohol was always regarded as a bad evil .
india ’ s constitution has urged the indian people to enforce the prohibition , and the government does not provide alcohol drinks in state state dinners and public officials .
four of india ’ s 29 states ( bihar , gujarat , manipur , and nagaland ) , together with an alphabet or iraq , are now trying to enforce mandatory prohibition .
but maintaining a sweeping prohibition policy has always proved difficult in india .
in 1991 , the 1991 ban on the s & p state had been abolished in five areas with alcohol tax .
lakshadweep adds to one of the islands , with a tourist resort allowing a bar to operate .
in mumbai , where i was a child , you can avoid punishment if you were convicted of 醉酒 .
( insiders are racing to label themselves as 酗酒 . )
the state of this kind of moralism best said that the state of kerala is kerala , which in 2014 announced a partial ban on alcohol sales , and plans to ban it after a decade .
the policy has since receded .
kerala ’ s coastal region has always been a tourist destination – a reputation that , of course , is based on the desire to drink .
before the ban , kerala maintained a dubious record : india ’ s highest per capita consumption rate .
but in india , the prohibition is common among many segments of the electorate , and politicians are in a difficult position to resist a 道貌岸然 urge to improve their fellow citizens .
so kerala ’ s government carried out a ban .
at first , many approved .
influential christian churches appreciate the policy , so , too , are the parties that christians would support .
working-class women have long complained about the monthly wage waste in each of their husbands , who welcome the decision , and the traditionalists , gandhi , and other multiculturalists are so – india ’ s people .
in kerala , a influential public figure stood up against the decision .
the politicians who might have such a plan know that they are instantly criticized as being 万恶 , 代理人 , “ wild mafia ” agents , the likes of the 液体 , and their enemies above their enemies .
but there is good reason to oppose the ban – such reasons that are irrelevant to religion , morality , or alcoholism .
alcohol taxes account for 22 % of kerala ’ s revenues , an important pillar of its generous welfare policies , and kerala ’ s welfare policies are touted as india ’ s best social development indicator .
another 26 % of state revenues come from tourism , and tourism is bound to suffer hard from prohibition .
moreover , most of kerala ’ s economic dynamism has been active since its economic dynamism .
if prohibition affects the quality of life in kerala , attracting talent and investment abroad will be difficult .
( it talent talent , bordering in bangalore ’ s karnataka state , likes to go to the bar after a long hours of work . )
kerala ’ s leaders should know that , if not widely available , the proceeds would have a significant impact .
but they were also implemented .
twenty bar workers and 酿酒厂 employees lost their jobs almost overnight , while kerala was struggling with high unemployment .
tourism operators have been dealt a heavy blow to the country ’ s tourists , who were supposed to take the route to sri lanka ’ s 或果 ; 50 % of existing convention was canceled .
it companies that intend to move to clean , green , and technologically friendly kerala express concern about the prohibition policy .
soon after , kerala ’ s government decided that prohibition was only effective , and bars closed , selling wine and beer .
but that is not enough to save the government ’ s fate in the state election in june , and the communist government , which came to power in the election , supported alcohol , without implementing prohibition , pledging to reassess prohibition policies .
as a result , kerala is no longer a disaster in the name of saving people from itself .
but it does not have to go to the end of the decline in income , crime ( including smuggling , tax evasion , and illicit liquor ) that has been forced to eliminate the ban – and the ban on other states can learn from lessons .
four states – anwar , haryana , 拉姆 , and tamil nadu – have repealed prohibition policies .
to be sure , not everyone has been harmed by prohibition policy .
at the first time , kerala ’ s government announced its intention to open a host of new shops to the state of tamil nadu ’ s alcoholic beverages corporation , which has been ready to open a new store to the country ’ s consumers .
in other words , kerala ’ s 酒税 now hangs in tamil nadu ’ s coffers .
in india , prohibition has been economically devastating .
but politicians continue to win votes with bans .
when elections in tamil nadu were held earlier this year , their chief minister declared his support for the prohibition .
but , after winning elections , these words were discreetly eschewed .
先父 : “ india is not but the world ’ s largest democracy ; we are also the world ’ s largest hypocrisy . ”
i think we can get this right .
leading world leaders
sadly , this is no exception .
but there are two pieces of good news that break out of darkness .
first , us president barack obama ’ s re-election sent a clear message : the world has escaped a catastrophe of international cooperation .
the us is on the verge of isolating nationalism , and xenophobia may reinforce this status .
despite the economic trauma of the united states , obama ’ s victory has been opened by a combination of sympathy and mutual recognition of the legitimacy of the global public good .
the other good news is that more “ local ” in france is , but it is no less important .
as in the rest of the developed world , financial crises hit france ’ s economy , causing output to stagnate , unemployment , rising employment uncertainty , government debt , and the risk of a collapse in stock markets .
manufacturing production has plummeted , trade balance has deteriorated sharply , and corporate bankruptcies are rising .
six months ago , france had a new leadership – a new president , a new government , and a new parliament .
but president françois hollande and his government are unlikely to have any choice in the aftermath of the election , except for the impact of reducing the unfair budget cuts implemented by his predecessor , nicolas sarkozy ’ s administration .
many wonder whether hollande is aware of the scale of the crisis that hollande ’ s recent recession could trigger .
in recent weeks , however , the government has actively promoted policies to boost french firms ’ competitiveness , including a massive tax cut for the company ’ s €20 billion ( $ 26 billion ) tax cuts , which means that ordinary citizens will pay the price .
raising the value-added tax will hurt , but no other .
sober heads and bold and comprehensive policymaking make french investors feel comfortable with the crisis .
the french government ’ s new moves to address economic troubles in france , europe , and the world are essential .
after all , france is the eurozone ’ s second-largest economy , the world ’ s fifth-largest economy .
despite these bright spots , international cooperation in areas ranging from regional conflicts to protecting global public interests remains weak .
antarctica , the world ’ s only continent with direct international management , is a recent example .
the antarctic treaty , negotiated in 1959 , prohibits any military activity or established borders in antarctica .
in three conventions , such as the antarctic treaty protection convention ( ccamlr ) , the ccamlr ( the ccamlr ) , and the ban on all mining activities , together , together , three treaties in the antarctic treaty in 1980 added to the antarctic treaty .
the antarctic treaty system contains three annual meetings : one in which the treaty itself monitors and managed , and the other two , along with the ccamlr and the ccamlr .
the advice of marine reserves around the continent in recent years has been taken into account , in order to prevent the rise in the number of 鲸 whales , or even extinction .
the principle of international cooperation was established in 2011 , when the ccamlr meeting was established at the ccamlr meeting .
at the 霍巴特 meeting in australia , which ended in early 2012 , participants discussed three proposals , proposed by the united states , new zealand , and the 澳大利亚 , in three different regions .
these proposals are not only a conflict , but also one another .
but the discussion ended up without a resolution .
russia and ukraine , and then china , have blocked the agreement .
this failure reflects the same reason why the global climate-change conference has brought the global climate change conference in recent years : a few cynical states , we need their cooperation to save the planet , but they fueled the madness of those determined to destroy the planet .
this will not change unless governments are persuaded to support a new consciousness of binding international law in the world .
france also has a president who understands the need for bold , far-reaching action .
we are now more active than ever before , and we can help us get the tide and achieve it .
securing mutual dependence
london – during the cold war , the certainty of “ mutually assured destruction ” of the “ mutually assured destruction ” of the nuclear arms race has brought the arms race away from disaster : 人若犯 , and the fate of both sides .
today , a very different race is underway – a contest that is crucial to the earth ’ s key resources , which could destabilize the stability of the world ’ s critical regions .
countries increasingly rely on other countries ’ food , water , and energy , which requires a global response to sustainability .
unlike the nuclear arms race in the twentieth century , the resource security agenda is not linear .
mutually assured destruction was written in both sides of the cold war .
in a race to the resources of the twenty-first century , no actors directly or indirectly threaten other actors to reduce food and energy exports , but all have systemic risks .
countries inevitably become interdependent , and the decline in climate change , water stress , and ecological resilience has increased this volatility .
the world ’ s resources are limited and scarce , and countries and companies will be forced to make decisions that affect each other .
to guide this interdependence , the planet ’ s security index , the planet ’ s security project , shows that countries are vulnerable to increasing risk exposure to governments and companies , unless we have a more strategic approach and sustainable investment .
the esi identifies four areas of mutual dependence that may affect global security over the next few decades :
· 梗阻 points .
national energy , water , food , and land demand can not be met without a tradeoff between limited available resources .
when the resources are not sufficient to meet demand , they reached 梗阻 points .
in china and india , for example , this means that some regions will not be able to develop enough water in the short term to produce coal and irrigate large tracts of crops .
in china , 60 % of planned coal-fired power plants will be built in water-stressed regions .
· food .
many countries ’ dependence on food , water , and energy imports has created new opportunities for trade and investment , but it also exposes the country to key weaknesses .
australia , for example , is a big coal exporter , but most of the refined fuel relies on imports , with fuel reserves worth only three days .
the challenges of mutual dependence are particularly acute in food terms .
the esi shows that some countries – including egypt , peru , and the united arab emirates – are heavily dependent on grain imports from a few suppliers .
moreover , grain suppliers are vulnerable to extreme weather shocks , which could constrain their continued supply of supplies , which would allow imports to suffer .
in 2010 , for example , russia imposed a ban on wheat exports for a severe drought .
the resulting increase in food prices is believed to have played an important role in egypt ’ s revolution .
· teleconnections .
predicting systemic ecological risks will become increasingly important for sectors like reinsurance and infrastructure investment .
“ teleconnections ” refer to weather events that are geographically linked to one another .
for example , tropical rainforests play a critical role in maintaining stable weather and rainfall , helping to play a “ pump ” for water transmission across regions .
deforestation is thus destabilizing weather patterns , exacerbating the frequency and severity of extreme events like floods and droughts .
the resulting responsibility for the resulting industrial and financial sectors is clear .
in brazil , for example , deforestation in the amazon has slowed markedly over the past five years , but brazil has lost 100 hectares of tropical forests , and the extreme weather in brazil has been rising steadily in 2011 alone .
· 瓶颈 bottlenecks : agricultural systems are reaching resource limits , continuing governance gaps that limit their ability to ensure food security , dignity , and ecological stewardship .
companies , investors , governments , and society are facing key barriers to the availability of food that is urgently needed around the world , where land ownership is not guaranteed ; and the loss of 重要 ( for example , fertilizer and pesticides ) has reduced the resilience of food production ; and the loss of key ecosystems , such as fertilizer and pesticides , has eroded the resilience of food production .
in some parts of india , for example , these problems exist .
insecure land ownership has left smallholder farmers unable to make improvements in productive investments ; allowing the 的 of 政策 to produce excessive water extraction ; and , despite rapid economic growth , millions of people remain unprotected .
countries and companies will increasingly need to invest in sustainable land to circumvent these resource risks .
the 2015 global framework will be agreed to address climate change , coordinate responses to natural disasters , and guide the global development agenda .
some of the multilateral processes – particularly ambitious global climate agreements – have been slow , with no geopolitical interest .
in the past , the demand for high-level nuclear governance is urgent and clear , but it needs to create a common understanding of the risks of risk and opportunity .
successful multilateral responses , such as the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , remain supported by more flexible global platforms such as the nuclear threat initiative , based on relationships and trust outside of formal multilateralism .
this year , world leaders will discuss the next generation of sustainability , development , and climate frameworks , and , in the process , they need to put security and mutual dependence at the heart of the response .
here , too , the world needs to create informal platforms to supplement traditional multilateralism .
in particular , the old divisions between rich and poor countries and their responsibilities must be redefined .
china , brazil , india , and other g-20 economies and other g-20 economies have proposed reform of the global governance system , and their vulnerability to resource security should be encouraging .
only then will the world go to improve the security of all .
after aleppo
denver – the end of the fighting in aleppo will not end the syrian war , despite a national cease-fire .
the suffering of aleppo ’ s citizens will not ease – many of them have been displaced .
the siege of aleppo won the historic status of syria – and , in the words of former us secretary of state warren christopher christopher ’ s phrase , syria is another “ problem . ”
with other 地狱 recent regional conflicts , such as the bosnian language ( which is referring to bosnia ’ s words ) and rwanda , a key feature of the conflict in syria in the future is a major failure of diplomacy .
good diplomacy begins with a keen analysis of interests , which include both the country and the relevant external powers .
a careful assessment of how to pursue a wide range of interests must affect regional and international order .
there must be a way to enhance regional or world powers ’ ability to help solve problems .
throughout the process , it must provide moral compass and common action on the values of a growing consensus – both key actors , as well as key issues of problem-solving and challenges .
it is vital to ensure that values do not become a weapon of action against another actor , aggravating conflict , and undermining solutions .
consider the bosnian wars of the 1990 ’ s – the evolutionary result of the fragmentation of austria and the ottoman empire in the early twentieth century and the creation of the nation-state .
thanks partly to this factor , the conflict has caused mass murder and human-rights violations .
but , as a test of a new world order , bosnia ’ s war finally prompted a change in the international community ’ s structure ( including war crimes ) .
will the nascent post-cold war system handle the first problems of the post-soviet collapse ?
will nato be a new role and a new task ?
can the west work with the new russian federation ?
can transatlantic relations withstand the storm ?
the answer to all of these questions is yes .
as a result , while the region has been plagued by serious problems , the gates of hell have not opened – as it did in rwanda .
but , just 20 years after the past , the world ’ s collective memory of cooperation has been ineffective .
to be sure , there has never been a clear path to peace in syria .
so far , syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s forces have regained control of all of aleppo for the first time since 2012 , and assad is a brutal dictator who wants his own people ( including civilians ) to war , and even use chemical weapons .
the syrian people ’ s search for regime change – which the us and some european countries support – is understandable .
but us diplomacy is doing very well , and it seems to want to pursue this goal without an entirely organized international support , or even to pursue it .
make no mistake : there are many ( often conflicting ) opinions and interests .
after all , syria is a strategic point in the mediterranean ; border with israel , jordan , turkey , and iraq ; and , like iraq , there is a 桀骜难驯 kurdish minority .
this is not an international and regional power .
indeed , when western powers demand regime change , other actors – including iran , russia , and shiite interests in neighboring lebanon – have voiced opposition .
nonetheless , the us has committed itself decisively to implement its own very poor agenda , providing weapons for the fight against it without proper assessment .
this gives the assad regime ’ s allies the justification they need to provide their own weapons .
some argue that if the us delivers more weapons sooner , assad has no time to consolidate his support and uphold power .
but this ignores syria ’ s strategic importance to so many external powers , as well as the decentralized and unpredictability of us combat forces .
america ’ s real mistake is to reconcile all sides , including assad and the sunni opposition that it views as a sectarian force .
( during the bosnian war , by contrast , the us was negotiated with yugoslavia , the ruler of yugoslavia . )
america ’ s approach to thinking – which does not describe any post-war vision for post-war syria – has handed the diplomatic reins to russia .
today , the us has effectively become a “ 搅 pot , ” with little more than saying that the platitudes about the 进程 and rhetoric of the geneva process are no longer anything but impossible .
the us ambassador to aleppo , the united nations ambassador to the united nations , was humble to asking that assad ’ s russian ally , “ you really don ’ t shame ? ”
at the same time , the conflict is raging , with serious spillover effects on america ’ s allies in the eu .
russia , for its part , is also pursuing a sufficiently inclusive diplomacy .
it is working with turkey ( with nato members at sea ) to make the syrian opposition and the assad regime meet in kazakhstan to discuss new peace talks , with a ceasefire agreement that russia and turkey hold .
but what about sunni arab states ?
more important , the us ?
it is often observed that , every four years , the us has lost its foreign policy .
this time , it has been lost .
alexander hamilton ’ s eurozone tour
princeton – europe ’ s debt crisis has fueled europeans ’ interest in america ’ s federal fiscal experience .
for many , alexander hamilton was a modern hero .
perhaps one day his face will appear on the €10 banknote .
specifically , for europe ’ s crisis-ridden european countries , hamilton ’ s negotiation in 1790 of the federal government ’ s negotiations on states ’ large debts was an attractive model .
in fact , following thomas Sargent ’ s nobel prize last year , hamilton cited his actions as a precedent .
hamilton argued against james madison and thomas jefferson that the debt accumulated by states during the war of independence should be considered a federal debt .
in two ways , his argument is practical , but theoretical .
first , the most attractive aspect of hamilton ’ s plan was that it could provide a greater security for creditors , thereby reducing interest rates by a 6 % reduction in interest rates , from 6 % to 4 % .
hamilton emphasized that , as a prerequisite for public economic , the promise of healthy fiscal finance is important .
hamilton ’ s logic applies very well to today ’ s europe , but it was a deeper reason to pursue a healthy fiscal system , not just for 便宜行事 .
“ public virtue and public well-being are linked . ”
the virtue is to keep their promises , and build a new political atmosphere for the united states .
indeed , public virtue makes federal finance a “ strong cement ” of what hamilton called “ our federation . ”
the condition that the us can succeed is that it has earned revenue – the united states with federal jurisdiction , with the bulk of the revenue – coming from tariffs .
this logic – the need for specific income streams – applies to modern europe , reforming its fiscal system , which would include a common value-added tax ( as well as an additional benefit , such as the elimination of large amounts of cross-border fraud ) .
america ’ s unity , however , is not without costs : there is a ceiling for a common debt exposure in virginia .
and it is that to give the most powerful states the most powerful state to persuade madison to reject his proposal .
this compromise ( the united states ’ capital , ultimately in virginia and maryland ) could serve as a precedent for limiting german responsibility when introducing eurobonds or other multilateral mechanisms .
the us experiment in fiscal federalism was not immediately successful .
two important parts of hamilton ’ s fiscal structure did not ( or can not be realized ) .
he has proposed a proposal to create a joint banking sector across the country , but immediately attacked ( curiously , that proposal has had a major impact on canada ) .
second , the opposition eventually rejected his proposal to build a national central bank .
the license maturity of the us bank ’ s first bank was in 1811 ; 25 years after , andrew jackson , president of the world ’ s second bank , succeeded in vetoing the 执照 of the second bank .
nor did the scheme for federal finance guarantee a federal peace .
in the early nineteenth century , as international capital markets develop , state governments borrowed large , and quickly became debtors .
then , in the 1930 ’ s , a wave of state defaults erupted .
a few decades later , in the 1960 ’ s , there was a reason why the debate over how to finance the fiscal burden was a source of american civil war , at least in the south .
abraham lincoln ’ s initial proposal , which compensated for the theft of the serfs ’ s serfs in order to end the unethical slavery of slavery , was fiscally impossible , so the northern federation – according to the 蓄奴 federation – decided to deprive the south of the south .
it would not guarantee that the state ’ s debt is a federal debt .
the civil war in the united states shows that morality is essential to hamilton ’ s approach to debt and public finances .
so , in the context of different states ’ moral differences , hamilton ’ s approach failed .
europeans now understand the practice of the practice of hamilton ’ s ideas – that debt mutualization could reduce the cost of credit ; but europeans still have much to do with hamilton ’ s belief that a crucial political system or common public virtue will be .
the politicization of europe ’ s never-ending debate about debt restructuring makes it difficult to adopt a pragmatic solution , as the state ’ s credit is dubious .
to achieve hamilton ’ s europe , the obvious starting point was to establish the criteria for 化 national debt , which could be ignored , a lack of enforceable universal standards ( that is , 60 % of gdp ) , and a lower ceiling .
more than that debt would be borne by member states themselves .
collectively , collective burden-sharing is the only way out of the eurozone ’ s current crisis , but that requires a sustained increase in political accountability and europe-wide control .
the lesson of hamilton and the us is that , even if the necessary institutions were necessary , these institutions will not work .
can navalny save russia ?
moscow – in 1811 , when the diplomat , the enlightenment philosopher joseph de maistre , the possibility of a western-style transformation in russia – or not – it wrote a famous statement : “ every country has the government it deserves . ”
fourteen years later , the revolution – the poet and military officers who toppled czar nicholas i and a constitutional monarchy – seemed to refute de maistre ’ s conclusion .
but the revolt was suppressed , and the december was executed or exiled .
a executed official said , “ you can ’ t hang us all . ”
russia ’ s brutal twentieth-century twentieth century and its totalitarianism and gulag have proved that the officer – and de maistre – was wrong .
no one “ deserves ” to be ruled so violently .
it is estimated that 20 million russians were under stalin ’ s rule , and the rest were paralyzed by terror .
the twenty-first century has been kinder to russians , at least for now .
but , despite the disappearance of terror and famine , many of the previous repression of the past have been in putin ’ s misrule – and now in the 14th years .
since 2003 , when the billionaire , oil oligarch mikhail khodorkovsky was arrested for alleged embezzlement and fraud – previously , he intervened to support putin ’ s political opponents – most russian elites have become subservient to it since then .
none of them envisaged a labor camp like khodorkovsky ’ s .
under putin , it seems , de maistre , to be sure , is a lot of life .
then , in 2011 , russia erupted against massive protests against putin and his “ con party ” party , and alexei navalny , who called the shots , became the agent of russia ’ s opposition .
the 37 anti-corruption lawyer has since been viewed as putin ’ s side .
recently , he claimed to have an ambitious presidential election ; at the same time , he sought to become mayor of moscow ( the second important political post in russia ) .
the current mayor of moscow , sergey 索 , has full support from the kremlin ’ s propaganda machine , gaining more than 90 % of the personal vote in the current opinion polls .
but navalny ’ s approval rating is not nearly as close , reaching 80 % , and almost entirely on its own .
navalny ’ s candidacy recently received a boost from the convicted conviction that khodorkovsky was in the grip of khodorkovsky ’ s case with khodorkovsky .
navalny was sentenced to fraud , owing to a five-year prison sentence for 挪用 , a provincial timber company .
but , after a series of unusual twists , navalny was released from prison in prison .
it was said that this was because his supporters immediately took the streets .
the more likely motivation is putin ’ s decision to let the election play out , and he decided that navalny had taken the lead .
in that case , the 比亚 , which was appointed in 2010 , received the legitimacy he has not secured , and opposition movements will lose their foothold in the capital – the main source of navalny ’ s political backers .
but what if navalny is elected ?
will his sentence be shortened , postponed , or canceled ?
or will the choice of moscow ’ s people be jailed ?
in the new challenge of 迈斯特 de maistre , nearly 200 young businessmen overcame the fear of khodorkovsky ’ s fate and donated generously to navalny ’ s campaign .
37 of them signed what they called a new “ social contract . ”
according to their manifesto , they “ expect navalny to defend the rule of law , support judicial independence , and ensure that the state is genuinely accountable . ”
they will invest “ and finance , finance , organization , and other resources ” investing in the promise of competent consultants , making moscow – and ultimately russia – escaping corruption and abuse of power .
most of these young entrepreneurs are becoming “ knowledge-based . ”
they are also the founder of the 云 service service , the founder of the online luxury company , the developer of new banking technology , and the founder of doctors ’ social-media platforms .
all are well educated , and many have american business degrees .
most of these business leaders prefer to stay out of politics ; but russia ’ s 的 education system , economic feudalism , official antipathy to gays , and other vicious problems have left them no choice .
putin himself has become a fraught 恶俗 drama .
to be sure , navalny ’ s supporters can be allowed to emigrate abroad ; but , inspired by the candidate ’ s campaign , they are willing to look at him .
indeed , navalny has become the only hope for russian competition .
at the same time , navalny ’ s nationalist credentials have strained many people .
and , while russia ’ s leaders have been at the helm of the reformers , they are rarely .
boris yeltsin initiated the 1990 ’ s in a courageous democrat , but his image was a corrupt 醉鬼 , while putin was sworn into the chaos and order that he vowed to bring about yeltsin ’ s legacy .
thus , moscow ’ s mayor is a moment of truth for navalny , investment in his business leader , and all muscovites , even russia .
as in the times of the december revolution , any russians have been subjected to overweening government power , regardless of his views .
fear and apathy are more dangerous than realpolitik .
but the question remains : can navalny and his supporters change the political culture of russian fear , or de maistre , in de maistre ?
athens – when answering questions about greece ’ s journalists , the return of the 帕台 大理石 浮雕 , which george clooney has called the british museum of the london museum , is “ the right choice ” to return to its ancient home athens .
in the early nineteenth century , the 1799 was the 埃尔金 of britain ’ s ambassador to the ottoman empire , and lord 埃尔金 , who was 大使 and 饰物 .
pruitt sold these sites to the british government in the british government .
greece now wants them back .
the release of george clooney ’ s memorial film , the site of film monuments , has sparked recent historical controversy , which describes the effort to rescue art from the nazis from the nazis .
his comments infuriated london ’ s 市长 mayor and author of classical academics and writers , who shot him back on the same issues as the nazis described in the film .
but the film ’ s core is not that of the dispute , but also the character character .
perhaps the most important question is the public ’ s willingness to believe who – clooney or johnson ( or the nazis ) ?
of course , some might ask that this was relevant to the participants at the time ; the facts should be self-evident .
but the matter is like many important political , social , economic , and cultural issues , and it is far from the truth .
sometimes , we do think about a wide range of points of view , and actively search for the facts and evidence of a view that beats other perspectives ; but it is not the evidence , but the prevalence of ideas , that we really focus on our opinions .
the social and cognitive psychologists have long understood these two fundamental processes in the study of the “ dual process ” models that have handled information and eventual judgment .
we have been buying only 末梢 路线 in a 一时 area , but we are buying the so-called central route when buying cars – that is , full measure of technology , security , and aesthetic features .
systemic research to persuasion begins in world war ii , because the us military recognized that a national war with hitler needed to be inspired by hitler was inspired by the military and persuaded the population to support war .
they have sought help from the yale university psychologist carl 霍夫兰 and his colleagues , whose research results have produced a well-known model of persuasion , comprising three groups of variables ranging from communicators , audiences , and information .
霍夫兰 , the idea of aristotle ’ s idea , argues that persuasion depends on the 道德品质 ’ s character , the mood of audiences , and the most important – the logic of justification .
psychological research has shown that any of these three can be persuasive , depending on the speaker ’ s attractiveness and his personal instinct .
迷恋 women , for example , may be particularly prone to believing that hollywood ’ s famous 银狐 , or , in the case of the nazis , would make audiences easy to persuade their audiences .
but most of the situation is at stake in the face of important issues , and it is more likely to take the so-called central route of information processing .
the problem of world cultural heritage , for example , requires conscious , comprehensive deliberation .
indeed , it is our duty to make a tradeoff between all of the relevant information and the relative merits of each of these positions , and that any successful civilization is the foundation of any success .
once the obligations were fulfilled , the rational man should have understood that the 帕台 博物馆 博物馆 , a former imperial museum , was separated from the rest of the 帕台 农 雕塑 , a 粗暴 of the art of the art of the art , and a salt that the uk has not healed .
thus , only one possible conclusion is that the 大理石 statues must return to their historic home , presenting the world with the will of ancient artists .
i am convinced ?
perhaps not – i am greek .
but don ’ t take clooney ’ s word , or johnson .
determining the world ’ s cultural patrimony is not as simple as buying a 面包机 .
living big data
cambridge – big data comes from the digital traces that we have used to use credit cards , mobile phones , or networks .
but theoretical effectiveness does not mean that in the real world , complex human interactions are not always fully captured , even if you use the most cash .
big data requires a massive experiment .
for example , my own lab is building a web site based on the google map , which uses digital traces of digital traces , infant mortality , crime rates , changes in gdp , and other social indicators , and shows daily updates .
this new capability allows viewers to understand whether , say , a local government plan is a failure or a failure .
but , while these remarkable visualization tools can significantly increase transparency and public knowledge , their role remains limited when it comes to solving social problems .
one reason is that such abundant data flows have generated unreliable correlations .
even if using conventional scientific methods no longer works ; in measuring the potential relationship between measurement and measurement , our standard statistical tools can not produce meaningful results .
without knowing all possible alternatives , we can not reach a limited , testable conclusion .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , it must be tested in real , real-time data .
this will require transcending the closed , 以 , and 提问 lab process , which uses us to use our ideas more frequently than ever before .
in order to understand what is going on in reality , we must build a living lab – a community that is willing to try to try a new approach – that is , to act as a mice .
one example of a living lab is the “ open data cities , ” which i co-authored with the italian telecommunications ( telecoms ) , the spanish telecommunications institute , research universities , Bruno , data-driven design , and local companies .
what matters is that the life of the living lab has been informed and approved by all participants ; they know that they are involved in a huge experiment , aimed at creating better lifestyles .
a major challenge for living laboratories is to protect individual privacy without undermining the potential of a better government .
for example , the pilot experiment will experiment with the “ new deal of data ” that i propose , and users will pass a greater control of their personal data through trust – such as our new PDS ( personal data store ) systems – to their personal data .
one hopes that the ability to share data in safe sharing data while protecting privacy can encourage individuals , companies , and governments to communicate their ideas , thereby boosting productivity and creativity throughout the city .
but the biggest difficulty of using big data to create a better society is the intuitive understanding of social physics .
while it is extremely dense , data and modern computing can give us a lot of details about how the details of society are made , and that the original mathematical mathematical models have too many variables and complex relationships that are difficult to understand .
what is needed is a dialogue between some form of human intuition and a compelling reality of big data – a dialogue that is currently lacking in the current management and government system .
to deploy big data effectively , people must be able to understand and interpret the statistics .
this requires new understanding of human behavior and social dynamics that transcend traditional economic and political models .
only by developing the science and language of social physics can we make big data the world we are willing to live in .
peril and promise in algeria
madrid – five years after the start of the so-called arab spring , these revolutions were initially characterized by great economic expectations , which are largely dashed .
in many countries , revolution has evolved into a brutal long-term conflict , with no solution .
in all of these conflicts , the international community has paid little attention to countries like algeria , where the revolutionary spirit of the revolution has not yet been fully recognized .
but algeria ’ s fate is now on the international community ’ s radar – and it is far too late .
on february 7 , algeria ’ s parliament approved a constitutional reform package that stipulates that the president will serve only two ( the leader of the 总统 war of independence ) , and recognized some basic freedoms .
these steps , starting in 2011 , aimed at strengthening algeria ’ s democracy ; but many criticize algeria not enough .
indeed , the “ consensus ” of algerian politics has been paralyzed for years to come .
the disease ’ s 缠身 bouteflika has not experienced a year of public discourse , and the results of the 2019 presidential election are problematic .
the effort to cut security and intelligence authority over the last three years – as mohamed Mediene , who has been chief of intelligence since 1990 – was forced to retire – a problem that highlights domestic political tensions .
major external challenges have exacerbated algeria ’ s situation .
in particular , oil and gas industries account for 97 % of algeria ’ s export revenues , and the price collapse since june 2014 has left the algerian economic model untenable .
the decline in oil revenues means that algeria ’ s government can not maintain a variety of subsidies that traditionally serve as social 稳定剂 , help to prevent unrest .
the government has already had to raise taxes , while raising prices for fuel , power , and gas .
if oil prices are not falling quickly , and algeria ’ s leaders are forced to take more drastic steps , social stability could collapse .
of course , some factors help to contain social unrest – the people ’ s memories of the brutal civil war in the 1990s , with more than 150,000 people killed in the war .
but memories fade over time , and the new generation of young people lacks the fear of social conflict over social conflict .
in this social context , the protests , if not violent , are not a distant matter .
to avoid this outcome , algeria ’ s government must diversify its economy quickly .
but such concerted action is difficult in the current political environment , especially given that governments focus increasingly on security challenges in algeria ’ s neighborhood .
tunisia ’ s revolution , the war in libya , the 阿雷格 of the malian diaspora , and the most important of algeria ’ s 因阿迈 gas plant , the terrorist attacks in algeria in 2013 , brought algeria ’ s leaders increasingly to regional security .
although the constitution explicitly prohibits other countries from interfering in other countries , algeria is clearly keen to ensure that its neighbors are stable and capable of preventing extreme forces – witness its foreign policy .
in libya , for example , algeria is supporting an inclusive process of reconciling all parties , in order to support the un ’ s efforts to stabilize libya .
the us and europe have recognized algeria ’ s leadership and cooperation in anti-terror operations around the neighborhood .
for the eu , further ties to algeria are particularly important , because the stability of the region ’ s neighbors in north africa and the sahel is in the interest of both sides , and algeria has helped to improve the eu ’ s energy security .
a key way algeria can help improve regional security cooperation is to rebuild diplomatic relations with morocco .
to be sure , the two countries have been wrestling over four decades of dispute over the sovereignty of western sahara .
but the economic , business , and security-related dividends that reset cooperation should be sufficient to persuade them to reconsider their positions .
if the two north african giants are willing to recognize the common interest , rebuilding relations , restoring relations with the maghreb would be possible .
algeria ’ s influence across africa will also increase .
as it stands , algeria ’ s influence in africa is set to grow .
some argue that the algerian candidate may become chair of the african union ’ s commission after the end of next july ’ s term .
to this end , algeria ’ s consistent support for the au and its contribution to regional security – exemplified in the role of the mali peace agreement and the host of libya ’ s negotiations – is good for it .
if successful , algeria will become the first north african country to lead the au .
the severe challenges posed by falling oil prices and severe regional conditions suggest that algeria desperately needs change .
but if algeria ’ s government acts to unleash the political system , achieving economic diversification , and strengthening diplomatic efforts , algeria could become stronger and more influential than ever .
washington , dc – in the tenth century bc , china ’ s steel system has produced thousands of thousands of people to use thousands of people to use their lives and 祭祀 .
in the case of this early production , the process of building a process requires coordination and coordination among workers across a wide range of workers , which , in precise sequencing , perform separate tasks .
a thousand years later , a similar complex process was used to produce famous 秦始皇 兵马俑 .
according to the asian art museum in san francisco , these statues “ make up assembly systems for production production and commercial base . ”
some scholars speculated that these early forms of regulation have played an important role in shaping chinese society .
together with other factors , people have embraced the social philosophy that emphasizes the hierarchy of hierarchy in hierarchy and convince people that they are right to do so .
when industrial factories were born in europe in the nineteenth century , even staunch critics of capitalism like engel acknowledged that greater production was necessary , regardless of whether economic institutions were capitalist or socialist .
in the twentieth century , theorists such as · winner extended this thinking to technology .
he thought , for example , that the bomb should be considered “ a political product , ” because its “ lethal nature requires it to be controlled by centralized and rigid orders . ”
now we can extend this thinking to far further .
consider machine-learning algorithms , the most important general-purpose technology used today .
these algorithms are using real-world examples to mimic human cognition , which is now ubiquitous .
but to make full use of these technologies , organizations must redefine the task of human tasks to forecast tasks , which are better suited to the advantages of the new african government .
a key feature of machine-learning algorithms is that their performance improves as data increase .
thus , using these algorithms creates a technological drive that would inform people ’ s information about information and availability .
as in the big production system , they have “ inherently political ” ( inherently political ) , because their core functions require some social behavior and blocking other social behavior .
in particular , machine-learning algorithms are directly related to individual privacy aspirations .
a system based on open and accessible information about individual members ’ information seems to fit the communitarians , such as 社会学家 奇奥 , who believe that restrictions on privacy are the means to enforce social norms .
but , unlike communitarians , algorithms don ’ t care about social norms .
they are focused on making predictions better , and that can be achieved by transforming a growing number of human lives into 集来 data .
moreover , while technological coercion will translate individualist westerners into accidental communitarians , it also allows them to accept a culture of meritocracy based on algorithmic assessment .
whether in the workplace or in school , we are accustomed to using impersonal tools to assess our eligibility and then distribute our place at a level level .
to be sure , algorithmic assessment is not new .
a generation ago , scholars such as oscar h. h. H warned that we are turning into a society that is documenting and ranked , and requires more accountability and redress .
but , unlike modern machine-learning algorithms , old assessment tools are well understood .
they make decisions based on relevant normative and empirical factors .
for example , it is no secret that many credit-card debts have hurt one ’ s creditworthiness .
on the contrary , new machine-learning technologies 深挖 the big data sets to find correlations that are predictive but poorly understood .
在职 , algorithms can track employees ’ conversations , and how much time they spend on where they spend lunch , telephone , or meetings .
in a system of algorithmic elites , what is required is a good standard .
still , technology is not destiny .
we have decided before our technological decisions .
business leaders and policymakers can develop and deploy technologies according to their institutions .
we have the ability to assemble privacy nets around the human lives of humans , protect people from the effects of harmful data , and demand that algorithms balance the values of accuracy and fairness , accountability , and transparency .
but , before we follow the natural flow of algorithmic logic , more meritocratic and communitarian culture is inevitable .
this gradual change will have far-reaching implications for our democratic institutions and political structures .
the chinese scholar daniel bell and jang 维维 argue that the main political alternative to liberal democracy in the west is in china ’ s evolving socialist system .
in china , collective decisions do not require citizens to make explicit decisions to legitimize them , generally in the case of the government , especially when it comes to monitoring .
ordinary chinese are largely limited to participating in local elections .
at the same time , national leaders are selected through a meritocratic process , as guardians of people ’ s wellbeing .
liberal democracy is unlikely to be a political system entirely .
but if today ’ s business and consumer culture continues , we will soon have more of a meritocratic and communitarian tradition in china than in our own individualist and liberal traditions .
if we are to change course , we must put our own political imperatives ahead of technology .
the sunni-shia divide
baghdad – in the first parliamentary election of 2011 , iraq has been holding the first parliamentary election since the us military withdrawal in 2011 , which was held in the context of escalating violence .
can the new government reestablish order and address the many pressing challenges that iraq faces ?
the challenge is truly daunting .
the authorities must address the fundamental constitutional issue , such as iraq , as a confederation , rebuild civil society , reforming state institutions , reviving the economy , and eradicate waste and corruption in the oil sector .
but perhaps the most difficult challenge is bridging the sectarian divide between the iraqi shia and sunni citizens .
this split is also evident in other arab countries , such as syria , lebanon , the gulf states , and yemen , with the momentum sweeping the muslim world ( including pakistan , malaysia , and indonesia ) .
is this a historical parenthesis , or is islam ’ s two largest sects in perpetual tension ?
there is no doubt that there have been periods of peace in the two communities .
but the most important thing today is that shia and sunnis have emphasized different differences in the past , and historical memory can be distorted – and even fabricated – to create mistrust and loathing .
the first muslim dynasty of the shia dynasty – 倭 王朝 ( grand food staple ) – was ousted in the first 75 years of the prophet mohammed 叔父 , who was the prophet of the prophet muhammad 叔父 .
this has led to a brief sunni-shia settlement that has many of the most valuable incidents that later accompany each other .
in particular , much has been learned from the different legacies of the 哈里发 caliphate , 1180 , and the last caliphate of abbas ’ s successor , jabhat al .
the shi ’ ite view is that shia are an intrinsic part of islam , and they are seeking to treat all of his 子民 , and in his rule , sectarian tensions have moderated .
on the contrary , the sunni-shia conflict – including killing , burning , and other violence – was widespread during the 期间 rule .
iraq ’ s current political leaders need to draw lessons from these historical lessons and ensure that all of iraq ’ s factions are not marginalized or discriminated against , which is derived from the entire islamic world .
in pakistan , for example , sectarian killing is almost daily ; in malaysia , few shia have been seen as existential threats ; and , in saudi arabia and many other countries , wahhabi forces tend to declare hunting against a hostile faction .
politics and power struggles explain much of this violence and mistrust .
the gulf states ’ leaders , for example , believe that hegemonic hegemony in iran is the basis for its shia population ’ s loyalty .
malaysia ’ s political parties , for their part , appealed to shia targets for their purpose , thereby attracting votes and consolidating power .
after the us-led invasion of iraq , syria and its regional allies were determined to defend the new regional balance of power that is good for its favorable directions .
but political calculation can not explain everything .
the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 provided a good example of how the same political event is different from different sectarian interpretations .
the us ’ s destruction of iraq ’ s states has led to a new and unstable order that seeks to correct the sunni dominance of many years .
but , as the sudden loss of power in the sunni world has triggered a backlash against muslims in the muslim world , the conclusion is that the shia and us collusion in iraq have been strengthened by events in syria .
according to this view , the shia have merely recovered the “ history ” of its perpetrators and fifth columnists .
historically , the shi ’ ism was in the midst of a 勾结 勾结 that led to baghdad ’ s fall , killing the last caliphate of the monarchy , killing the muslim world ’ s “ grand unified ” – abbas ’ s demise .
some medieval muslim historians point out that the shia 宰相 ibn al- ‘ alqami , ‘ Alqami , had collaborated with the 蒙古人 .
恰米 ’ s story was the preserve of some scholars , and now it is the central part of the sunni-shia dispute .
indeed , “ ‘ alqami ” is “ ‘ ‘ alqami ” – “ ‘ alqami , ” which is now applied to the shia as apostates .
social media forums are riddled with the struggle between shia and american invaders .
many even call the iraqi shia ‘ alqami ’ s offspring , and put iraqi prime minister nouri al-maliki as the modern-day 恰米 .
these diatribes reflect the polarization of iraqis ’ historical memory .
while full historical evidence suggests that the two sides were once peaceful , many – whether for ignorance of history , or the need to maintain a certain version of a certain version of the truth – are more willing to believe that the 变节 of hatred and betrayal will be the order of the day .
more important , the current situation reflects the lack of wisdom , accountability , and basic respect for political and religious leaders , who prefer to fuel rather than 消弭 the conflict .
sadly , intolerance has become a general phenomenon .
it is too late for the faith and history of other factions , and some of the remaining understandings are overwhelmed by sectarian anger and 恶意中伤 .
as long as sunnis and shia refuse to think about their past , it is difficult to foresee the future of peaceful coexistence .
and if political and religious leaders are unable or unwilling to seek compromise , they must rely on like-minded individuals , organizations , and civil-society institutions to rebuild mutual respect and find ways to cooperate .
and that requires knowledge , patience , and , above all , open thinking and mentality .
all in the family
munich – the great economic crisis has some iconic companies to falter .
murdoch ’ s media empire is a model for modern global firms .
a particularly dynamic and innovative business model has penetrated the united kingdom and the united states ’ public life in the united kingdom and the united states .
the murdoch empire ’ s history is the epitome of modern globalization .
the british generally saw murdoch as an aggressor , not only because he was australian , but because he brought new ideas .
specifically , after overcoming the powerful resistance of the union ’ s trade unions , digital technology has been introduced , saving the cost significantly , and putting the industry into a new epoch .
more important , the business model represented by murdoch is common in the united kingdom and the united states , where it is common in some parts of the world .
family capitalism in continental europe uses less capital to achieve maximum control .
its governance structure is often complex , with a 一级 holding holding company and a preferred share of shares .
such firms are also common in some of the most dynamic emerging-market economies in asia and latin america .
the murdochs hold only 12 % of the value of the news corporation – 12 % of the news corporation , but with two-fifths of the vote ; the rest of the vote is a reliable saudi prince .
for decades , the academic world has been able to maintain considerable profits for the business giant .
defenders point out that business firms have a longer-term vision relative to managers , allowing them to build stronger relationships with customers and suppliers .
now , for example , it seems to be the case – at least for murdoch ’ s example – that it has established a long-term , binding relationship with the police and the police .
in fact , the same is one of the two main weaknesses of the european party ’ s 家族 family , which seeks political advantages and connections as much as possible .
murdoch ’ s empire is a pillar of the political spectrum .
in retrospect , three successive british prime ministers – tony blair , gordon brown , and 卡梅伦同 – have been in line with the 过从甚密 business business .
cameron now talks about “ a healthier relationship between politicians and media tycoons . ”
and murdoch has publicly said that the prime minister is “ far from me . ”
the second notorious weakness of family businesses is the problem .
when the british parliament was attending the british parliament this month , murdoch behaved like the old man of the company .
there is a clear rule of succession in the old family family .
but the rule should be acknowledged .
there is no guarantee that the oldest son must be the best businessman , or , if a sad son , or chaos , or chaos .
if the parents had multiple multiple marriages , there is a further danger that they will inherit the 争产 .
before the scandal erupted , the smallest sons of murdoch ’ s three children – james murdoch generally thought to be the most likely to succeed – were the most likely to succeed .
the complexity of the modern model of marriage makes family life especially problematic , especially when it comes to money .
all three of murdoch ’ s marriages have children , with the children of the current wife , who is too small to be the corporate heir .
moreover , succession planning is complicated by the emergence of a “ generation of children ” from the company ’ s management .
丽贝卡 brooks – the editor of the world ’ s news newspaper , the editor of the world news corporation , the chief executive of the world ’ s news corporation – was precisely this role .
the disintegration of the children ’ s children was accompanied by the disintegration of the business empire .
indeed , the crisis of the murdoch family ’ s business empire is neither unique nor unprecedented .
after the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 and the collapse of the country ’ s and indonesia ’ s authoritarian governments , it was suddenly claimed that such a relationship was corrupt , with the contrary , contrary to previous appreciation , in which the view was that “ crony capitalism ” was dragged down .
in large part , the arab spring is a movement against corrupt family capitalism , not just the family of ben ali , the mubarak family , and the assad family , but also the family empire that has depended on each other .
globalization has enabled large family firms to scale up and expand geographic ranges .
but globalization also underscores the vulnerabilities and failures of large family firms , making them more vulnerable .
the arab spring and british summer summer are struggling to cope with the possibility that a american 之秋 – not only for murdoch ’ s business , but also its political infatuation .
the man ’ s land
new delhi – ernest hemingway ’ s “ men without women ” captures tense relations with the 两性间 .
in a particularly poignant novel , a young man would be convinced that a young man has not been a hindrance to his partner , and frustrated with a woman who has been forced to agree .
this was the story of 80 years ago in india , where the female fetuses face serious risks .
according to the 2011 census , the proportion of male girls in india has fallen from 名 women per 1000 males to 名 per thousand male per thousand .
the proportion of male girls in northern india is particularly alarming : only himachal pradesh is still at more than 900 .
despite being illegal , india ’ s widespread use of 超声波 identification of infant gender has led to a large number of healthy female fetuses .
and legal operations have raised serious concerns .
the fact that 生殖器 成形术 , a 生殖器 child gender in a new life , is thriving in india , has raised concerns .
only the word for the genocide can accurately characterize this phenomenon .
if unchecked , the next generation of indian men will be severely lacking .
although women have made significant progress in education and employment over the last few decades , the indian couple has a strong cultural preference for 重男轻女 cultural preferences based on obsession .
this preference is irrelevant to education and wealth – indeed , it is india ’ s most affluent cities .
however difficult it may be , the real culprit is the indian culture and tradition itself .
the expenses and pressure created by the dowry system , and that only sons of most joint families have inherited industry and wealth , is that favoritism .
perhaps it is equally important that sons , even married , live with parents and pay for their parents ’ old age when they are elderly .
daughters marry and live with each other , so it is seen as someone else ’ s wealth .
in short , sons represent income and daughters .
given that every family had 5-10 children , this is not the case .
the number of sons is typically balanced .
but , relative to today ’ s 小家庭 , two sons or daughters are about everything from 财务计划 to retirement .
many argue that indian women should stand up to their family pressure and refuse to give their daughters .
but indian women ’ s thirst for 男婴 is as high as anybody else ’ s .
unlike hemingway ’ s character , they often rush to give girls a chance to find a boy .
at this point , there are other problems with women ’ s shortages .
will women be respected and protected ?
or does it lead to more bride trafficking , women ’ s suicides , and sexual violence ?
the british historian neil ferguson cites some scholars ’ view of the surge in the number and expansion of the islamic youth population after 1914 , owing to the surge in japan ’ s imperial expansion and islamic extremism .
“ perhaps a new generation of asian men , ” ferguson wrote , “ can find a harmless way to find a harmless way to avoid avoidable pain , such as collective movement or video games .
but i doubt it .
he warned us that we should not be surprised if the next generation ’ s “ creeping militarism , or even imperialism , replaced sharp patriotism . ”
unfortunately , there is no instant solution .
saving girls ’ fate requires fundamentally altering some of india ’ s social family arrangements , traditions , and attitudes .
achieving this is not easy .
legislation alone does not work , because tradition is a law .
india , for example , allows women to claim equal rights to their parents ’ property , but few do so .
from a cultural perspective , she feels that she does not have equal rights to his father .
in any case , india does need new and viable laws to eliminate the cultural practices that underpin destructive traditions .
for example , india can impose a ceiling on wedding spending – typically the father ’ s biggest spending on her daughter .
if not on the wedding , he might give her some kind of compensation , perhaps allowing her to inherit more .
and this will gradually become a new standard , with the traditional adjustments being adjusted accordingly .
( interestingly , in kerala , where people continue to inherit the system , gender and literacy rates are among the most balanced in india . )
some advocate a more radical move , comprising the country ’ s more families .
perhaps the authorities could also penalize families with boys , at least temporarily .
india has traditionally imagined itself as a woman – a mother in india .
ironically , india ’ s mother may eventually become the country ’ s only woman , unless far-reaching reforms are taken .
america ’ s roads pick up
beijing – today , the “ green shoots ” of recovery have withered , and the debate over fiscal stimulus is being scaled up .
in the united states , those who advocate a stimulus package believe that the $ 787 billion stimulus package to offset private-sector spending is really wishful thinking .
the unemployment rate soared , beyond expectations .
combine this with the continuing decline in house prices , and it is understandable that consumption remains low .
while banks have been recapitalized , they had little to do with their continued business balance .
贷之风 continues to limit investment .
if there is a new stimulus package in february , that need is more urgent .
yet the case against the introduction of new stimulus programs is strong .
the us federal deficit has reached 12 % of gdp , and it is alarming ; public debt is expected to double , to 80 % .
it seems unrealistic to think that the us can repay its debt growth , as it did in finland and sweden in the 1990 ’ s , when the financial crisis hit the financial crisis .
given this , greater deficit spending will only stoke fears of future high taxes and high inflation .
this would prompt a renewed global imbalance .
and that prospect will not reassure consumers and investors .
economics can be hedged , and politics all points to it .
the us congress has no stomach for new stimulus programs .
there are already fierce criticisms of congress ’ s fiscal cliff .
the first stimulus is slow , and it will take a long time to be fully demonstrated , giving ammunition to politicians in parliament who favor the electorate .
the effectiveness of the 计划 program has been disappointing , leaving people and parliaments no longer supporting more public funds to recapitalize them .
so , even if some believe that , according to the logic of economics , active fiscal policy is imperative , and they must acknowledge that such policies are politically supportive .
the second stimulus is far from guaranteed .
if , say , aggregate demand in the global economy expands , it will come from a place .
not europe , but also japan , whose liabilities are higher than the us , the demographic outlook is worse than the us .
that is only the emerging-market economies – for example , china .
the problem is that china has done much to stimulate domestic demand , expanding government spending , and guiding bank lending .
as a result , china ’ s stock market and housing prices have begun to bite .
in may , real-estate prices rose 18 % year on year .
china ’ s official starting to worry about bubbles is understandable .
the most obvious response is to expand import spending .
china can buy more industrial machinery , transport equipment , 炼钢 materials , all of which china imports from the us .
by increasing spending on capital flows , not only can china ’ s domestic market overheat , boosting productivity ( and thus the future growth potential ) , but also support demand for us , european , and japanese products .
this strategy is not without risk .
allowing the renminbi to appreciate in order to encourage imports also depresses exports , while exports are the traditional engine of the chinese economy .
reducing the administrative barriers to imports would channel more spending to foreign goods , perhaps not in the case of the government .
however , if china is serious about taking the role of a global leader , these risks are worth taking .
the question is what china can expect ?
china ’ s $ 1 trillion in us treasury bonds is worried about the safety of the assets .
it wants america to ensure that it does not , so it wants the us to offer a viable solution to a balanced budget after a recession .
instead , the obama administration has failed to offer a credible roadmap for consolidating fiscal consolidation .
if it gets it , it would reassure us taxpayers and reassure chinese policymakers .
we live in a multipolar world , and neither the us nor china is enough to lead the global economy alone .
for china , responsible leadership implies many risks .
to allay china ’ s concerns , the us will want to help china circumvent some existing risks .
only by working together can the two countries lead the world economy out of the current depression .
the rise of china ’ s rise
beijing – us vice president joe biden ’ s recent four-day visit to china ended on a final note .
he has reassured china ’ s leaders that , despite the recent downgrade , the us will be responsible for all of its debt , and he is keen to talk about the relationship between the us and china , and that it also has a desire for 孙女 for years to come .
but , in 宾主 笑脸相迎 , there is still a wide range of serious problems and conceptual gaps that divide the two world powers .
first , it is a question of attitude .
for those who see china ’ s rise in negative terms , the country is becoming increasingly assertive : first in the east china sea ’ s dispute over japan ’ s east china sea ; and then , in the us , it demonstrated a hidden rocket of its own , as well as a naval base in the us .
even the 殴斗 of china ’ s visit to the team was seen as china ’ s aggressive assertiveness .
on the other hand , many chinese believe that the us suffers from a severe 目空一切 syndrome , and is already dying .
in the eyes of these chinese , americans ’ own government is failing , but insists that its political and financial system is the world ’ s first , exemplary , and exemplary .
the country has become heavily indebted , without stopping consumption and borrowing .
its manufacturing competitiveness is no longer , but blames others for a large trade deficit .
in the eyes of the chinese , the world ’ s only military superpower is busy intervening in his country ’ s internal affairs .
then comes the issue of trust .
those who criticize china argue that the so-called rise of “ peaceful rise ” is not credible , because the country has a one-party system of political system .
at this point , a zero-sum game is a zero-sum game , and that china ’ s expanding share of the world economy is bound to be at the expense of the interests of the us or other powers .
any chinese military action has been described as a kind of 侵略扩张 act that must be contained .
any move by western politicians ( for example , biden ’ s visit to china ) will immediately be questioned and criticized as a compliment to dictators .
likewise , conspiracy theories are always available for chinese meddling in china ’ s intentions .
they feel that the united states , a declining superpower , is seeking to block china ’ s rise by military , military , and diplomatic means .
all discussion of human rights and democracy is an effort to demonize china .
arms sales to taiwan , 藏独 , and various “ color revolutions ” were financed by the us and other western powers , and the sole exception is to weaken china .
rising interdependence still leaves the two sides in a deeper understanding of the underlying problems .
the chinese foreign ministry ’ s deputy minister of affairs , wu 傅莹 , expressed its concerns in recent interview with china : “ what is an important question : is the us and china the enemy ?
are we going to war ?
are we preparing to war with each other ?
biden ’ s reaffirming that it does not think of china as an enemy , or that hu ’ s fears are not out of touch with china , suggests that the worst scenario is an unintended conflict .
so , for china and its neighbors , the key question for the us , and for the rest of the world , is not what china will deploy for decades to come , but how china will use its newly acquired economic and military power to achieve its own domestic and foreign policies – and how the world ’ s powers are mutually destructive .
if the challenges are to be met , the only way is to achieve positive , consistent , and frank 相互了解 in china and other countries .
china ’ s economy will continue to grow ; china ’ s military will continue to move toward modernization ; and the chinese people will continue to unite the great powers .
the west ’ s cold war and containment policies are bound to be strong resistance from the chinese , and china ’ s global leverage , particularly in finance , is strong .
only one patient , creative , and consistent communication strategy can remove fears of both sides .
china ’ s rise is the fact ; in the long run , a lasting peace is bound to be the first priority in china , its neighbors , and especially the us .
inequality in need
berkeley – in any economic measure , we live in disappointing times .
in the us , 7.2 % of the normal productive labor currently is in a clear state , and europe ’ s employment gap is rising , and will surpass the us by the end of this year .
so it is important to step back to remind ourselves that the “ lost decade ” we are experiencing is not an important economic destiny .
as paul krugman recently reminded us , john maynard keynes put it well :
“ this is a nightmare , and it will take the past . ”
natural resources and human facilities are as fertile as those of the past .
progress toward solving the material problems of life is not slowing .
we have the same ability to make high-quality living – my meaning more than 20 years ago – and quickly learn to create higher-quality lives .
we had not been deceived before .
but now we have brought ourselves into a great muddle , and we can not understand a delicate machine that we can not understand .
as a result , our 创富 may be wasted for a time . ”
but what about our long-term economic destiny ?
keynes saw that in a time , perhaps 2050 , everyone ( at least for the british ) will have a keynesian life .
as long as you don ’ t want to be crazy , he would not want more necessities , better goods , and luxury goods than john maynard keynes did .
we are wiser than keynes , and perhaps sadder .
we know that we want plastic surgery , heart transplants , 不孕 treatment , cheap air , central heating , broadband internet , and exclusive beaches .
in the north atlantic region , nearly everyone has enough food to avoid hunger , secure enough clothing to keep heating , and secure enough shelter .
so the economic question must be associated with us for a long time .
but at least we can expect to create a relatively egalitarian middle-class society , and let ’ s go to the 至上 utopian utopia ?
the university of north carolina , karl smith , explained that this might be wrong .
a prolonged industrial revolution that drove low-skill workers to wages drove wages to the top – allowing them to be able to dream ( at least dream ) and the lifestyles of the rich and celebrities – is not a good guide .
in order to create wealth , what you need is the idea of changing things and energy , more energy itself , and , when it comes to changing , the tools to control it .
the industrial revolution brought about ideas and energy , but the human brain remains the only effective tool of control .
as ideas and energy become cheap , the human brain is a precious source of supplements .
but , as we enter the future of artificial intelligence , such as kevin 德朗 , the artificial intelligence future of artificial intelligence , and even the 低层次 artificial intelligence ( ai ai ) , is the future of the human brain itself , and the human brain will no longer be the only valuable tool of control ?
this does not necessarily mean that the absolute living standards of “ unskilled ” workers will fall : the factors that are likely to reduce the value of the human brain are likely to reduce the cost of 生活必需品 , improve goods , and goods .
but wealth may flow to productive – and perhaps include – ideas , and to owners who have a 仿制 and prohibitively expensive idea , even if the tools and energy are cheap .
the lesson is clear : markets do not naturally guarantee a long-term future characterized by wealth inequality and relative poverty .
unless we fully recognize this one day , we will continue to remain mired in a “ delicate machine ” that keynes understood .
alpine schadenfreude
not surprisingly , the world economic forum ’ s atmosphere this year is grim .
those who argue that globalization , technology , and market economies can address the world ’ s problems seem subdued .
what is most being blamed is those bankers .
in the context of the sub-prime crisis , many financial institutions faced disaster and stock-market weakness , these “ world rulers ” seemed to be not as all-knowing as they were before .
but not just these bankers , but also their regulators , are in davos this year .
those who attend the international conference are accustomed to listening to the lessons that americans are learning more transparently .
there are some people in davos .
i heard the usual questions , including former finance minister who had been particularly strong during the financial crisis of the east asian financial crisis , lecturing the sovereign funds more transparent ( but not the us or european hedge funds ) .
but this time , the developing world will be tempted to stand up to criticism of their narrative , and , of course , in the face of the difficulties facing the us , of course , because they fear that the decline is affecting their own economies .
aren ’ t the us telling other countries that other countries have allowed us banks to enter their markets to learn how they operate ?
did the us not boast of its excellent crisis-management system , or even develop a new regulatory system ( called the second basel ii capital agreement ) ?
the basel ii capital agreement has been dead , at least until memories of the current crisis fade .
banks are also lulled by credit rating agencies .
they argue that financial innovation can somehow turn bad mortgages into good securities that give aaa ratings .
but one lesson of modern finance theory is that in well-functioning financial markets , 风险 risks are not very different .
if we know the price of cream and the price of 脱脂 milk , we can calculate the price of milk in 出含 , 2 % , or 4 % cream .
this may seem too good to be true , but it does .
making matters worse , the first principle that banks have failed to understand risk management is that the risk of dispersion is only as effective as that of each other , and large-scale shocks , such as those affecting home prices or the ability to repay repayment , may make all mortgages impossible .
i argued at davos that central banks erred , misjudging the threat of economic decline and failing to raise enough regulation .
they waited too long to take action .
because the full effects of monetary policy are at least one year or longer , central banks need to act , not to respond to problems .
making matters worse , the fed and its former chairman , alan greenspan , may help to make this difficult , encouraging households to accept risky 利率 mortgages , and repeatedly reassure those who worry about the housing bubble .
normally , davos participants would agree to support central banks .
but this time , three-quarters of those who voted at the end of the conference supported my view .
even if one central bank claims that “ no one can predict these difficulties , ” it may be a little more than a few listeners , perhaps because several people sitting in the past have explicitly warned about the impending difficulties .
the only thing we have not predicted is how bad banks ’ lending practices are , and how non-transparent these banks are , and how inadequate their risk management systems are .
what is interesting is that a different culture is different from the ongoing crisis .
in japan , the ceo of a major bank would apologize to his employees and his country , and would refuse to share the money and bonuses in order to allow those who have suffered from the failure of companies .
he may resign .
in the united states , the only question is whether the board will force a ceo to leave , and that if he leaves him out , he should pay for his retirement compensation .
when i asked a ceo whether to discuss the return of their bonuses , the answer is not simply a simple , but rather 大声 , argument for bonuses .
this is the kind of crisis that has occurred in the us over the past two decades , with the two previous crises in 1989 and the 安然 crisis in 2002 .
deregulation did not work .
the 解除 markets may give the ceo more bonuses , but they do not look like a kind of 幸福 to society .
unless we strike better balance between markets and governments , the world will still pay a high price .
effective altruism
princeton – can humans really be driven by altruism ?
my new book , the greatest measure of what you can do , discussed the emerging movement called “ efficient altruism ” ( Effective ) , which i surprised in interviews with the book .
why should we doubt at least some altruistic action ?
in evolutionary terms , it is easy to understand altruism to those who have helped their families and 回馈 .
one plausible claim is that if our ability to think and think about it is enough , that we can ensure that strangers can suffer or enjoy their lives , so , at least , that some of us will be altruistic .
according to gallup , the people in 135 countries asked whether the people of 135 countries spent money for charities , contributions to a group , or help a stranger .
the gallup poll ’ s outcome – the foundation of the 2014 world in which the world gave the index of 2014 – suggests that some 23 billion people , one-third of the world ’ s population , are at least one altruistic .
more objective evidence of altruism supports this finding .
in many countries , the supply of blood for medical purposes relies on voluntary donations .
a small minority ( but a growing number ) has gone further , donating a kidney to a stranger .
in 2013 , there were 177 us donor donors who donated , 118 in the united kingdom in may 2014-january 2014 .
then consider charity .
in the united states alone , $ 240 billion of personal philanthropy was donated in 2013 .
the foundations and corporations donate to the fund , totaling $ 335 billion , or 2 % of gross national income .
the us , it is often argued , is more charitable than other countries ; but , for the population , myanmar , malta , ireland , the united kingdom , canada , the netherlands , and iceland all have better than the us .
in myanmar , 91 % of respondents in the last month have spent money on the last month ( the percentage of which is 68 % in the us ) , which reflects the deep 小乘 donated by the monks and nuns .
myanmar , too , is the country with the highest percentage of volunteering time ( 51 % ) .
the us , however , has the highest score on “ helping strangers . ”
add to that a high ranking for volunteering time , making america the world ’ s most generous country .
to be sure , this dedication is not entirely altruistic .
the billionaire , entertainment star david geffen , who announced last month , donated $ 100 million to his concert facility , 费雪 费雪 , to be entrusted to david geffen as david geffen hall .
this gift seems to be driven more by fame than by good intentions .
after all , the 格芬 knew that the family of 艾弗里 was to be allowed to give them a $ 15 million compensation .
in any case , in a world where a billion people live in extreme poverty , an altruistic person is unlikely to believe that many things are more charitable than 整修 厅 services .
in the opposite direction , psychologists who work in the opposite direction believe that someone who is selling a small charities is less motivated by the desire than the people who have been bailed out by the 捐钱 .
other donors , by contrast , have more money , and often choose only a few institutions , based on information that is already underway .
they want some positive energy to the world .
their donation has also made their lives better , but that is not the reason to drive them .
the effective altruism movement is a group of donors who are 知行合一 .
the aim is to do the best possible good for the resources they are willing to do for charitable purposes .
these resources may include one-tenth of their income , one-quarter or even one-half .
their altruism may include their time and talents , and their professional choice .
to achieve their goals , they use reason and evidence to ensure that they are used as effectively as possible .
some studies suggest that people who are generous are often happier and happier than those who do not give .
there are also studies showing that giving the brain a center to center stage ( in return for the brain , and also by food and sex ) .
but this does not mean that these donors are not altruistic .
their direct motive is to help others , who are giving them more pleasure , only to help others .
if such people have ever been more , there is more giving , which is what we want .
testing times for alzheimer ’ s
london – alzheimer ’ s disease is the most common cause of dementia , and the world ’ s most frightening neurological disease .
by 2050 , there will be 135 million alzheimer ’ s sufferers , with more than three-quarters of the current population , three-quarters of which occur in low- and middle-income countries .
predicting the onset of alzheimer ’ s – not to mention prevention and treatment – remains a huge challenge .
alzheimer ’ s disease was discovered more than a century ago by the results of the autopsy , characterized by brain lesions known as “ 淀粉 plaques . ”
the disease is more difficult to diagnose in life .
doctors rely on observation of memory loss and other 缺陷 failures ( such as reasoning and language ) – signs that the brain is already suffering from injury .
but it will take a few years before the plaques create them , and a few years before the onset of dementia .
if scientists have time and resources to engage in deep longitudinal studies , alzheimer ’ s alzheimer ’ s could be expected to increase .
these studies would best include blood , images , memory , and medical tests for thousands of young people and middle-aged people , and detailed lifestyle questionnaires .
the research participants will be subjected to decades of tracking to observe who develops alzheimer ’ s , which can be observed before alzheimer ’ s disease was diagnosed .
indeed , two famous longitudinal studies – the framingham heart study in massachusetts and the 国王 project in sweden – have made important progress in predicting alzheimer ’ s disease .
these studies have found that a short-term memory would damage short-term memory , given the diagnosis of alzheimer ’ s disease .
since then , brain imaging , biochemical analysis , and – perhaps the most important – genetic test have made significant progress .
in fact , the risk of alzheimer ’ s will double if a parent or sibling is suffering from alzheimer ’ s , probably because of the presence of the ApoE gene .
the probability of a 欧洲人 of a particular kind of ApoE ( ε4 ) would double the probability of alzheimer ’ s ; genetic 双份 will make it roughly ten times higher .
but genetic testing alone can not be a precise metric , because about half of alzheimer ’ s sufferers do not carry ε4 , and perhaps half of ε4 will not occur with alzheimer ’ s .
moreover , while international studies of more than 70,000 people have shown that more than 20 genes relate to alzheimer ’ s , they are small .
nonetheless , a 2012 study published in the new england journal thomas 医学期刊 analyzed a rare genetic mutation that occurred only in the world ’ s 500 families , which would lead to alzheimer ’ s disease .
research shows that testing can be predicted in the decades before the symptoms of symptoms .
studies found that beta ’ s proteins ( such as 物质 斑块 ) will vanish around the brain in 25 years before the onset of dementia .
fifteen years before the onset of dementia , 正电子 scans ( pet ) scans showed that 乙型 proteins are accumulating in plaques in the brain itself .
according to the framingham and king studies , the ten years prior to onset of dementia , a decade before the onset of dementia , short-term memory tests will be abnormal .
these tests are now becoming part of clinical practice , and are using commercial applications .
memory and other cognitive tests can reveal whether you have minor problems in some aspects of thinking – so-called “ mild cognitive impairment , ” often before alzheimer ’ s alzheimer ’ s .
the problem is that these tests must be carried out by trained 心理学家 , which will take more than hours to complete ; and many of those with mild cognitive impairment do not follow dementia .
the 取样 survey of 脑脊液 ( or “ spinal water ” ) can predict whether people with mild cognitive impairment will experience dementia , at more than 80 % accuracy , but still means a misdiagnosis of one in five .
pet scans are slightly less accurate , while routine mri brain scans can reveal only about 70 % of the accuracy of mild cognitive impairment .
as a result , scientists continue to find accurate predictions that are cheaper , quicker , and less painful than pet scans or 腰椎 穿刺 .
whatever the predictive approach that doctors use in the next few years , they may be able to inform them that patients with mild cognitive impairment are likely to develop alzheimer ’ s in the short term .
the more difficult question is whether we can accurately predict alzheimer ’ s alzheimer ’ s , or predict the disease five years ago .
even with early accurate predictions of alzheimer ’ s disease , there is no drug currently able to prevent or cure alzheimer ’ s before the amyloid plaques are removed .
this will be the next big challenge .
africa ’ s data revolution
washington , dc – ever since the word “ data revolution ” has emerged , there has been plenty of movement to define , develop , and implement the agenda to change the collection , use , and distribution of development statistics .
that makes sense .
to assess the international community ’ s next development agenda , regardless of its details , there is no definitive data .
but , in sub-saharan africa – with the coming sustainable development goals – the region has the greatest potential to make progress , with very little accurate data .
from 1990 to 2009 , only one sub-saharan country had data on the 12 indicators developed by the millennium development goals of 2000 .
indeed , none of the 60 countries that are fully available in key statistics is african .
although most african countries have experienced economic growth over the past decade , the accuracy of the data that underlie growth estimates remains the basis , not to mention data on inflation , food production , education , and vaccination rates .
inaccurate data can have serious consequences .
consider nigeria , which earlier this year , when gdp 重估 showed that the economy is more than 90 % larger than previously thought .
the distortions in nigeria ’ s economy before the previous data could lead to decisions about decisions regarding private investment , credit ratings , and taxation .
moreover , this means that nigeria has received more international aid than it should be – aid that could have been used for countries that need more .
contrary to popular belief , the constraints on basic data production and use are not the result of technical competence and knowledge , but from underlying political and institutional challenges .
first , national statistical offices often fail to ensure that they are independent , leading to the emergence of political forces and special interests .
poorly designed policies also undermine the accuracy of the data .
for example , governments and donors sometimes tie money to self-reported measures , which creates incentives for recipients to exaggerate key data , such as vaccination rates and school enrollment .
without effective oversight , these well-intentioned rewards are likely to backfire .
despite these failings , national governments and international donors are being used to ensure that enough data are collected .
only 2 % of official development assistance has been used to improve the quality of data – a figure that is inadequate to assess the effects of other 98 % of aid .
and the government ’ s reliance on donors to fund and collect the core statistics is unsustainable .
indeed , stronger national statistical systems are the first step toward improving the accuracy , timeliness , and availability of data , which are essential to calculating the accuracy , timeliness , and accessibility of virtually every important economic and social welfare indicator .
these include birth and death data , growth , and poverty data , taxes , and trade data , health , education , and security data , health , education , and environmental data .
developing such institutions is an ambitious but achievable goal .
what is needed is the willingness to experiment with new approaches to collecting , using , and sharing data .
the public can play a role here .
bypassing the government , hoping for simple , evidence-based solutions may be tempting , but it is difficult to produce sustained and credible progress without public-sector involvement .
governments and external donors recognize that the need to increase the size and efficiency of funds ( especially the national statistical system ) would benefit this shift .
a stronger incentive to provide a stronger incentive for the authorities to produce good data ( that is , data that are more accurate , timely , relevant , and readily available ) would be useful , but identifying “ good ” metrics .
in fact , measuring progress and adopting a performance-based agreement could improve development outcomes considerably .
a specific strategy for achieving these goals is to establish a 国家 compact on the data .
this compact would enable governments and donors to establish a common set of national statistical systems for years to come , with well-defined and verifiable milestones .
it would also provide a country-specific framework for innovation in country-specific financing frameworks and the engagement of civil society and the private sector , while mobilizing new technologies for data collection and dissemination .
in short , the data contract helps to mobilize and focus domestic and donor funding to achieve national statistics .
data are the currency of global economic performance , accountability , and credibility , improving data and improving governance and increasing private investment .
what africa needs to support a new decade of growth and development requires improving data .
the experts ’ advantage
london – google ’ s board of directors has almost every board of computer science or engineering degrees , or with phds .
two presidents of the stanford university and former university of princeton university – two presidents and eminent scholars of 雪莉 蒂尔 – have been home to several of the us national academy of engineering and other prominent institutions .
for google , technology experts have their own benefits .
but google is an unusual corporate giant in promoting executives with technical power .
outside silicon valley , few corporate executives have technical expertise in their company ’ s products .
the us board has almost become a MBA , led by harvard , while other developed countries ( perhaps outside germany ) seem more willing to hire professional managers .
today ’ s professional leadership , as it used to be , has made it seem too unconventional for scientists to enter the boardroom .
it was assumed that knowledge-intensive institutions have not been led by too much needed leadership , because they were perceived as superior to academic satisfaction when they were perceived as superior to profit growth and cost targets .
this difference in attitude is evident in many areas of society , particularly in hospitals in the united states and the united kingdom , where doctors working with the managers are working separately with managers .
doctors have been a hospital manager , but only 5 % of us hospitals today are employed by doctors as chief executive , and even fewer doctors in british hospitals .
it is often said that “ medical problems leave doctors to the problem , and professional managers should be led by the organization . ”
but this is a mistake .
research shows that effective us hospitals are administered by doctors with outstanding research reputations , not the possibility of managers .
there is also evidence that if board managers accept clinical training , hospitals generally perform better and lower mortality rates .
the findings in other areas are similar .
my research , for example , suggests that the best universities around the world are likely to be led by brilliant scholars , whose performance often increases over time .
分析 analysis supports this view .
if , for example , the department of economics ’ s research department is widely cited , the performance of the 该系 performs better .
but , as the academic adage puts it , you don ’ t have a hierarchy , but not a hierarchy .
like cats , academics manage to adopt a “ relative 层次结构 ” that is changing with the environment and the environment .
even in sport , where movements are not clearly managed , we can see interesting links between experience and organizational performance .
the best nba basketball player is often able to become the top coaches , and the former formula champion champion 执教 .
the 92 football league managers in the english football league have spent 16 years on average average in the advanced clubs .
ferguson may be the best football manager throughout the uk , and he is in a career in two of his career .
but we should take note of the pattern that the business community is supposed to take .
the senior partner of any professional services firm is likely to be the company ’ s top enforcer in its long career .
this may be because experts and expertise in knowledge-intensive organizations are more willing to lead their jobs by bosses that are exceptional in the field .
the credibility of leaders is crucial : if she sets high standards , she would have to be or above .
in short , she must lead the way .
the cycle of such leadership is benign .
there have been professional experience with leaders who know how they feel , how to motivate them , and how to create good jobs .
her hiring decisions may also be more reasonable – the best scientists or doctors are more likely than professional managers to know which researchers or doctors ’ potential is the greatest .
but the problem is not that today ’ s leaders lack technical knowledge ; the fact is that experts tend not to assume leadership .
but that can change .
we can bridge this gap if the importance of his advocacy of management and leadership in the early years of the expert ’ s career provided a tailored , easy , and 专业术语 training .
many medical schools are already considering transforming education education into the curriculum .
the key is to take expert experts to take a step back to a step .
as long as it is possible , leaders can be mastered in professional and managerial terms .
the results could be remarkable .
think of how a government with managed skills might respond to climate change .
top talent should have been 委以重任 .
the chaos of bipolar disorder
普洛 , 罗得岛 – in the last few years , many experts believe that bipolar disorder ( bipolar disorder ) – a severe disease that creates severe social disorder and high mortality rates – has not been sufficient , especially among patients suffering from severe depression .
even patients who are diagnosed with bipolar disorder often experience more than a decade of time , if they were previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder .
clinical responses to bipolar disorder in depressed patients include an increase in 情绪稳定 drugs ’ use and rapid “ circular ” ( 即 ) risk .
nevertheless , efforts to improve awareness of bipolar disorder are likely to have counter-productive effects in the past few years , and we have observed that the other extreme phenomenon is over-diagnosis .
in my own 从医 , my colleagues and colleagues met some patients ’ reflection that they were not 狂躁 or 轻度 , but also diagnosed as bipolar disorder .
however , over-diagnosis seems to be far worse than under-diagnosis .
as a result , we have taken a study , from experience to empirical examination to examine the extent of bipolar disorder and inadequate diagnosis .
with the structure of the diagnostic 问卷 ( dsm ) , which we diagnosed with the diagnostic manual in the united states ( 诊断 ) , and the 问卷 of the 问卷 SCID , it was visited and filled with questionnaires , which is about whether they were diagnosed with bipolar disorder or bipolar disorder .
we have also received information about family history in their close relatives .
more than 20 % of patients ( 145 patients are 145 ) reported that previously diagnosed had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder , much higher than the 诊断率 rate of 12.9% .
previously diagnosed with the scid , the report was diagnosed with less than half of bipolar disorder based on the scid .
with bipolar disorder diagnosed with this approach , patients with bipolar disorder , which had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder , have been at risk of bipolar disorder relative to those found in bipolar disorder but were not diagnosed with the scid .
the latter is no less risk than a self-reported or 通过 diagnosis of bipolar disorder by bipolar disorder .
our research found that the family history of history shows that bipolar disorder was over-diagnosed .
any study that attempts to determine whether a mental disorder is over-diagnosed will find a condition for a patient ’ s 问诊 when it comes to the patient .
that is the nature of the reliability of psychiatric diagnosis .
the real question , therefore , is not whether there were any prior diagnosis of a patient who once again seems to be diagnosed with the patient , but how much .
how high the percentage of diagnosis should be to say that over-diagnosis is a serious problem is a value judgment .
but we believe that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % exceeds the clinical significance threshold .
over-diagnosis of bipolar disorder creates adverse consequences .
psychology is a therapeutic option , and , depending on the drugs , they could cause serious complications , affecting kidney , 内分泌 , liver , immune systems , or metabolic functions .
thus , over-diagnosis of bipolar disorder could expose patients unnecessarily to serious drug side-effects .
the impact of drug companies ’ marketing and propaganda may well have contributed to the tendency of over-diagnosis of bipolar disorder .
the advertisements that enable individuals to use screening questionnaires are likely to make patients suggesting that they have bipolar disorder when confronted with doctors .
we have seen this in our own experiences .
this does not necessarily reflect the question of the effectiveness of screening questionnaires , but rather how these criteria are used .
screening questionnaires maximize sensitivity to sensitivity , because it assumes that these outcomes would subsequently be conducted by expert clinical assessments .
but over-diagnosis can cause over-diagnosis .
clinicians are inclined to diagnose ( mental ) barriers that they treat .
we believe that a growing number of drugs that are being approved for bipolar disorder are likely to affect some clinical doctors , who can ’ t judge the patient ’ s diagnosis of a particular barrier to drugs , or the margins of bipolar disorder .
this tendency is reinforced by the marketing information that pharmaceutical companies have sent to physicians , which emphasizes studies of delayed diagnostic delays and inadequate awareness of bipolar disorder .
action against lack of awareness is likely to cause some depressed patients to be confused as bipolar disorder , often anxious , uncomfortable , and/or 易怒 , and complained about 失眠 and “ racing thoughts . ”
our research and research are consistent with research that is possible to examine the problems of bipolar disorder .
as more drugs are allowed to treat bipolar disorder and the numerous warnings that doctors are resisting , it seems that over-diagnosis has become a more problematic problem than under-diagnosis .
given that there are some uncertainties in the best assessment methods , we recommend a doctor using standardized , validated methods .
when tweets trump diplomacy
new delhi – diplomacy often witnesses unusual spats .
in 1859 , when the war between the us and the potatoes was the war of 1859 , there was a dancing lama in 1924 , with bogotá in 1970 , in 1970 , in the wake of the accident .
but few are even more surprising than the just-concluded episode of the offensive .
amazon , the e-commerce giant , has just begun to cultivate the indian market as the next front of its global expansion , plan to invest $ 50 billion in india ’ s investment , and a series of 欠妥 tweets in india ’ s foreign minister , sushma swaraj .
swaraj denounced amazon and threatened visas for employees , refusing visas later for its executives .
what made swaraj a twitter user was a twitter user that complained like her complaints about amazon ’ s website sales .
the country ’ s national flag has been crippled by dirty shoes , which 让 the twitter user , a twitter user known as swaraj , and received support from swaraj .
amazon was quick to respond .
it was , first and foremost , to clarify that the technical offensive was provided by third parties , not the proprietary of the amazon , and then to “ take steps to ensure that it does not sell any other market or website . ”
amazon ’ s indian manager offered apology to swaraj , declaring that “ it hurts the indian people ’ s feelings , ” reaffirming that the company would invest $ 5 billion in india ’ s markets .
fewer than 24 hours after the doormat crisis erupted , events were resolved .
but the many broader issues raised by the episode will not fade quickly .
the first problem is swaraj ’ s use of twitter .
swaraj likes to tweet with his colleagues ( though he is still dwarfed by us president-elect donald trump ’ s fact that he is still dwarfed by us president-elect donald trump ) .
i certainly do not oppose public officials ’ use of twitter .
instead , i believe that a growing number of ministers are accustomed to celebrating social media .
this is a welcome change , as when i served as foreign minister during my previous government , when officials ’ computers were blocked from social media , and tweeted a tweets from the private sector that often led to unnecessary controversy .
but swaraj probably may have gone too far , and it would have been answered by a few instances of lost passports or visa extension that she would respond to her – an approach that has earned her a decent 外号 .
some argue that the foreign minister ’ s tweets about the problem of complaints have shown that she had no more important things to do .
( this view undoubtedly reflects the fact that , under prime minister narendra modi , substantive foreign policy is largely carried out by his and his advisers , not by the foreign ministry led by swaraj . )
but the problem is not just swaraj ’ s communication with ordinary citizens .
in the recent doormat drama , she used twitter to issue instructions to his diplomats , in canada ’ s high commission to deal with the “ unacceptable ” problem , to the “ highest level ” of amazon .
this is unprecedented and not welcome .
social media are no substitute for a diplomatic cable .
not surprisingly , swaraj warned amazon ’ s words .
“ amazon must apologize unconditional apology , ” she tweeted .
“ they must get the product of our flag immediately . ”
the foreign minister ’ s responsibility should be to invite ambassadors to caution , which is now down to twitter .
the final question highlighted by the doormat incident is india ’ s unwillingness to tolerate the slightest offensive – a tendency that has been elevated to official policies by a senior minister of ministers .
of course , no respect for the flag is a big issue in most countries , and india has been introduced in 1971 to prevent the 冒犯 act , which would be a criminal offense , with no one “ cut , 涂销 , degrading , injuries , and 尊重 ” indian flags , which can be sentenced to prison sentences .
but indians have a low threshold for what constitutes disrespect .
in other democracies , flags can free their shirts , shoes , 胸罩 胸罩 , and even 内裤 , but in india , any 的 小玩意儿 is tainted by a solemn flag .
and it is not just a flag .
last year , amazon angered many indians with the introduction of 垫 印有 , the indian gods of indian gods , fueling the furious hashtag # BoycottAmazon .
two years ago , the amazon website caused similar public outrage because of the sale of 印有 images of hindu gods .
so amazon is no stranger to the anger of offended indians .
but the company ’ s recent events – which clearly won ’ t be the last – suggest that the importance of the size of india ’ s market is far greater than that of some commodity .
china has shown that it can set conditional conditions for multinational companies to go to its large market .
india seems to follow suit .
but no matter who wins the winner – perhaps twitter users – diplomacy is the loser .
ambivalent arabia
a democratic wave is sweeping the arab world .
even the traditional arab monarchies and emirates have something to change .
kuwait has now allowed women to vote , with qatar accepting a difficult reform program , bahrain ’ s massive tolerance of popular protests , and the united arab emirates is allowing a free press .
but saudi arabia continues to be wary of any kind of change , and thus a huge and seemingly immovable obstacle to reform in the arab world .
although saudi arabia ’ s ruling family , the al-saud , has endured enormous pressure on their neighbors ’ models , opposition forces remain strong .
as a result , the al-saud have become a double game : on the one hand , the royal family encourages democratic reform to be bold , while the royal family has brought them to prison .
on may 15 , three reform leaders – famous journalists and poet al qaeda al qaeda ’ s al thani – were sentenced to a criminal sentence for nine years .
their crime was to call for a constitutional monarchy .
according to official rulings , they use “ foreign ” – “ the west ” – “ the west , ” threatening national unity , challenging national sovereignty , and stoking popular opposition to the state .
soon after the terrorist attacks in the united states in september 2001 , these liberal reformers joined 160 other experts in a petition submitted to crown prince abdullah ( abdullah abdullah ) , a petition calling for reform .
the petition called for the monarchy to work within constitutionally mandated limits and called for an independent judiciary .
reformers believe that such reforms are the only way to enable saudi arabia to survive violent threats , instability , and state fragmentation .
only the constitution , they argue , can restore the legitimacy needed for a political system that is widely perceived as inept and inept .
crown prince abdullah , the true ruler of the kingdom ’ s 碌碌无能 half-brother , and saudi arabia ’ s true ruler , king abdullah , wants to be seen as a winning winner .
in january 2003 , he accepted these proposals with a passionate reception .
crown prince abdullah has failed to ask for a dissenting opposition , and his reform program is in political limbo .
in order to maintain absolute power and minimize public outrage , saudi princes , led by prince naif , demanded a deal to ensure that they are never asking for reform .
prince naif banned the use of “ reform ” in public discourse , because the term implied the problem of the system ; he prefers “ development . ”
ten of the reformers who have been arrested in 13 have submitted to this request , but the remaining three were explicitly rejected and paid .
they remained in jail in jail , before they failed to discuss any legitimate debate .
those who succumbed to their passports were detained and lost their jobs and were denied the right to speak to the news media .
under local and international pressure , saudi arabia ’ s ruling family has built a reform of a reformed version of the country , while taking over absolute control over all political developments .
at the beginning of this year , they held a tightly controlled local election , without allowing any independent view of opinion to be and how to hold an election .
all women are excluded from voting , and only one-quarter of men have a vote .
there is no doubt that the wahhabi islamists will do the best .
the family is now facing two threats : a violent islamist , another from liberal reformers .
clearly , they fear the reformers .
nor is it much easier to say that the “ terrorist ” criminals are more likely than repression to demand social justice .
indeed , the eradication of violent islamists and al qaeda groups will be recognized as a victory for the war on terror , especially the us .
but , as they seek and go beyond domestic extremists , they have been quietly tightening the noose around those who want moderate reforms .
this crackdown on liberal reform is particularly pronounced in the us , with the silence of the world standing quietly .
this silence is critical to the princes , because the al-saud care about the most .
in saudi arabia ’ s current scenario , the us government has no other trusted alliance with the current regime .
so , unlike ukraine , georgia , kyrgizstan , and lebanon , the us supported a strong opposition .
as long as saudi arabia is able to meet us oil needs and fight islamist radicals , it will continue to receive american support and silence – and its tacit acquiescence .
but the blind alley of the us and saudi arabia is not a durable solution .
those who use the possibility of a peaceful revolution will make violent revolutions inevitable .
liberal reformers who are imprisoned may have paved the way for a peaceful transition to a new saudi arabia .
by jailing these people , the authorities have made clear that violence is the only available route to change .
algeria ’ s dying dictatorship
algiers – despite poor health , algeria ’ s president , abdelaziz bouteflika , is still re-elected this month , with 81 % of the vote – at least in the case of his administration .
indeed , the false victory of the 岁 incumbent president is not a sign of political stability , but rather a reflection of algerians ’ inability to influence changes in the regime .
under bouteflika ’ s leadership , algeria ’ s government can not address the country ’ s most pressing economic and social challenges .
there is no sign of change .
as a result , his regime is increasingly finding it difficult to declare that bouteflika ’ s leadership is civilian , not 武治 .
as a result , the regime has adopted a new strategy aimed at creating a climate of transformation : a revision of the constitution and a vice president ’ s legitimate successor .
the real purpose of this move , of course , is to rally the military around the next compliant “ civilian leader . ”
the regime will also propose a “ national contract , ” pretending to start dialogue with the opposition .
but , faced with bouteflika ’ s bogus victory , the opposition can not continue to accept the role of the regime in the regime ’ s reform program .
indeed , the announcement of bouteflika ’ s plan to secede has been enough to rally the islamists and leftists – even those chosen by the regime – to resist the vote .
after the election results , they quickly rejected the new government ’ s legitimacy .
but , to gain credibility , opposition parties must extend their criticism from bouteflika to the system .
this is a matter of survival for them , because younger opposition groups are seeking new ways of building political change beyond national control .
one important development is the growing influence of non-partisan dissidents .
non-violent movements are not only opposed to bouteflika ’ s re-election , but also against the army and intelligence agencies ’ pervasive presence in civil society .
these movements , such as the “ sufficiently open ” movement , have encouraged algerians to shift from anger and negative abstention to positive resistance .
the underground unions – which organized protests and strikes to protect workers ’ rights , and refuse to cooperate with the regime ’ s official unions – also criticize elections .
moreover , young people have played a leading role in opposition – including by disrupting bouteflika ’ s campaign .
unemployed young people hold protests in southern algeria ’ s southern oil industry , arguing that high unemployment is linked to the military ’ s control of the algerian natural resources .
by organizing peaceful protests to demand accountability for public spending , these movements have raised problems during the campaign .
they have since challenged the government ’ s ban on street demonstrations – a legacy of the state that lasted until 1992 .
with the civil war in 1990 , security officials have been unable to account for the arrest of algerians demanding jobs .
of course , repression will continue to threaten many algerians .
but it is becoming increasingly easy for a twitter , youtube , and facebook to inspire their fellow citizens .
they have been able to spread their discontent by galvanizing daily debate about local human-rights violations , more effectively spreading discontent , and the previous traditional political party did not .
what algerians demanded is a better state service , not a “ arab spring , ” which is highly ingenious and highlights the regime ’ s inability to deliver on the security and economic prosperity of the people .
thus , even without explicitly talking about politics , a growing number of ordinary algerians are mobilizing against the government .
the street demonstrations have occurred mainly in areas where rights are violated , most overlooked in the most neglected areas , and the need for better work is economic : better jobs , housing , health care , and infrastructure .
for some , the right to earn a living in the informal market is enough .
the protesters are very large – sometimes destructive – with a stark voice , setting up barriers , occupying factories and government buildings , and destroying water supplies and electricity bases .
more than 150 algerians have not even tried to square their own houses since 2011 – where they are spent on government buildings .
against this background , the facile approach that governments make to buy off opponents is not surprising .
in 2011 , the government feared that the situation in tunisia and egypt – which had been brought down to algeria in the long term – was reflected in increased public protests by public-sector workers by 100 % , in 2008 .
to be sure , street protests have had a profound impact on algeria ’ s authoritarian politics , and officials fear that large-scale unrest affects public budgets and political appointments .
but the decision to prolong bouteflika ’ s presidency does not provide the strong transformational leadership that algeria needs to stabilize its regime .
the algerian authorities face significant challenges , because they reject a pluralistic system that makes it difficult to find a negotiating partner .
the more the regime tries to buy its opponents , the more it becomes its ego – the more outrage the people become .
in particular , angry younger people are not particularly afraid of the poor benefits that the status quo poses to them .
america after the election
kyiv – there are two features of the ongoing us presidential campaign , one that is not civilized : the republican party is an anti-establishment businessman donald trump , who represents a 道貌岸然 politician hillary clinton .
the campaign has exposed deep fault lines within american society and damaged america ’ s international reputation .
it is not surprising , then , that one of the few things that would allow americans to unite is that the campaign is too long .
but it is about to end .
the question is , what next ?
polls show that former senator bill clinton will defeat the controversial trump .
but polls are not to be confused with reality .
after all , when the united kingdom ’ s brexit referendum in june , most observers regarded the victory of the “ remain ” camp as a sure thing to win is a sure one .
most recently , colombia ’ s people have rejected the peace deal , and the agreement was widely expected to be popular .
all of this suggests that , despite clinton ’ s looming victory , the outcome remains uncertain .
the only meaningful poll is on november 8 .
until then , we can only speculate .
but some predictions have been made .
almost certainly , after the election , the united states will be a divided state , with a divided government , regardless of who is president and party control in both houses of congress .
neither the dpj nor the republican party can achieve its goals , unless it is supported by the other .
but the only divide in us politics can not be dismissed as the republicans and democrats .
indeed , divisions within the two parties are equally deep , with large , 斗志昂扬 factions pushing both parties into their respective extremes – the democratic left and the republican right .
this is a recipe for compromise in the middle of a centrist position .
the rapid return of president politics will further undermine compromise .
if clinton wins , many republicans will blame trump ’ s flaws and assume that clinton would be a term .
they would argue that a country that prefers change can not be allowed to dominate four terms in the oval office .
many republicans , especially those who deny the legitimacy of clinton ’ s victory , will seek to undermine the clinton administration , lest she be re-elected in 2020 as a successful president .
likewise , if trump succeeds , most democrats ( and even some republicans ) will be able to keep trump out of the second race as the supreme task of the second time from shock to dismay .
in any scenario , progress is possible in some key areas .
the next us administration or could enact legislation to finance america ’ s aging infrastructure , which both candidates and many members of congress support .
perhaps most of the reforms could be expected to reform the us tax code – especially by lowering high corporate tax rates and raising taxes on the rich .
there may even be some health-care reform , as president barack obama ’ s signature achievement , with the current health-care system still taking place .
but other issues requiring cooperation between congress and the president are unlikely to be resolved anytime soon .
the first is immigration reform , which is controversial in the us as in europe .
another is trade : domestic political conditions cause policymakers to fear that they have a position to support the existence of their opponents , so trump and clinton oppose the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , even if the agreement facilitates the us economy and strategic position .
at the same time , america ’ s deficit and debt will inevitably increase , because there is no willingness to cut entitlement spending .
the election of the general election is somewhat different , because , according to the us constitution , the president enjoys considerable latitude .
only if congress can formally declare war or ratify the ctbt , can the president use ( or refuse to use ) force without explicit approval of congress .
the president could also sign the international agreement , not treaties , appoint powerful white house officials , and to change us foreign policy through administrative action , such as obama ’ s recent actions on cuba .
if clinton is elected , this discretion will bring about the creation of a safe or more safe zone in syria ; providing more defensive weapons to ukraine ; and a tougher stance toward north korea and north korea .
what trump will do is more guess .
after all , he is a political outsider , so no one knows how much of his campaign will translate into policy .
but one might expect the trump administration to distance itself from traditional allies in some of europe and asia , and to avoid the middle east .
what happens after the us presidential election remains an open question .
although some outcomes can be expected to be reasonably predictable , the only real certainty is that 96 % of the world ’ s population in the us presidential election will be the result of the general election ’ s outcome .
america and europe
europe ’ s many people and governments would have had a fundamental change in us foreign policy after the bush administration ’ s policy frustrated with the bush administration .
but if these hopes are to be disappointed , a single political miracle will require a political miracle that will not happen – regardless of who wins .
the bush administration has made numerous foreign-policy blunders and far-reaching consequences .
but bush neither invented america ’ s unilateralism nor the transatlantic rift .
to be sure , bush reinforced both trends , but it is also the objective of objective historical factors – namely , since 1989 and europe ’ s self-inflicted weakness in europe .
as long as the us remains the world ’ s only superpower , the next us president will neither be able nor unwilling to change the basic framework of american foreign policy .
of course , whoever wins the presidency is also important : a candidate who will continue to run bush ’ s foreign policy or is ready to start returning .
if it is the former , the transatlantic rift will deepen .
four years or even eight years or even eight years of “ bush ” us policy will have a substantial impact on the transatlantic alliance , even jeopardizing its survival .
but if america ’ s next president pursues a new direction , us foreign policy may once again become more multilateral , focusing on international institutions and alliances , and willing to bring military and diplomatic ties to its historical boundaries .
that would be the good news .
another bad ( or good ) news is that a more multilateral us policy would put pressure on europeans to take pressure on the international crisis to put them in international crisis management and conflict resolution – in afghanistan , iran , the middle east , the caucasus , and russia .
europeans should also put africa , climate change , and the united nations in this common agenda to the common agenda .
europe has long underestimated its weight and importance .
its influence in geopolitics , economics , and society is well known .
but europe has also made a model for many other parts of the world by integrating sovereign states ’ interests .
europe , in particular , uses its power to achieve the lasting peace of the entire continent , thereby facilitating development by all economies , countries , and societies within its institutional framework .
this modern , progressive , and peaceful model is unique , and it is better than all other existing , fundamental issues of political order .
but “ can ” and do not mean .
the weakness of europe ’ s global influence is due to internal squabbles and lack of unity , which makes the eu weak and limits its ability to act .
外强中干 – this is the best description of the eu ’ s status quo .
america ’ s current weakness is associated with an international political environment that experienced profound changes , characterized by the limits of american power , the emergence of a new global power , and the emergence of new global powers like china , india , and india .
in this context , does the “ west ” make sense ?
i believe that more than ever , the rift between america and america has made both sides less power at the global level .
america ’ s unilateral transition to a new start provides an opportunity for a new start .
the us needs a stronger partner than ever before , and it will seek such partnerships .
so , what are europeans waiting for ?
why not start to change the traditional tensions between nato and the eu – especially in france , under president nicolas sarkozy ’ s policy toward nato ?
the leaders of nato ’ s secretary-general and the leaders of the eu ’ s foreign policy are regularly sitting on the other side ’ s meetings not to spend much time and energy .
why not open the eu – the us secretary of state ’ s participation in security matters – for example , for example , to invite us secretary of state and other government officials , such as finance minister or 环保部门 首长 , to join several eu committees , such as finance minister or 环保部门 首长 ?
why not create regular meetings between the european commission and the us president each year ?
periodic meetings between the us congress and the european parliament will be important , as any international treaty is approved by both institutions .
the fate of the kyoto protocol should be a lesson for all parties involved .
such a us consultation mechanism does not require any new agreements , so it can be implemented completely .
even today , europeans have seen a clear picture of the us presidential election : as us foreign policy is more oriented toward a multilateral 化为 , it will not be long before the american world ’ s politics in the united states is a 化为 .
that is a good thing .
the new transatlantic relationship must have a greater say in decision-making in exchange for more responsibility .
america at stall speed ?
newport beach – judging by the vagaries of markets and “ consensus expectations , ” the outlook for the us economy remains fraught .
the us is now seeing the next double-dip recession of a double-dip recession ; after the next , the next one is at last , and the us has finally begun to use its massive cash reserves , seemingly as fast as possible .
this is understandable , but it also exacerbated the unease in the us and the global economy .
this reflects the fundamental consequences of fundamental ( and historic ) economic and fiscal union , inadequate policy responses , and systemic rigidities that allow structural change to stall .
as a result , there is a legitimate question of the underlying functioning of the us economy and for years to come .
one way to understand the current situation – and how to improve – is to reflect on two events that trigger the world ’ s major attention : the release of boeing ’ s 梦幻 jet , and the death of apple ’ s steve jobs .
let us start with a simple 航空 dynamic , with a metaphor made by my pimco colleague bill gross to describe the economic risks facing the us economy .
a bright airplane wants to take off , ascend , and sustain stability , and move forward alone .
it must move fast enough , more than a physical threshold threshold – far more than most of boeing ’ s other aircraft ( smaller ) aircraft .
failure would mean a mid-air buildup , a slow pace , and a high rate of 突降 .
unless we are convinced that the new 梦幻 is capable of avoiding stall speed , the idea of how to improve the travel experience of millions of passengers around the world is just as good .
the us economy is now at stall risk .
specifically , the problem is not whether growth is growing , but whether growth is sufficiently rapid enough to drive a large economy facing “ balance-sheet deleveraging , credit constraints , and households and businesses ’ perceptions of economic prospects . ”
and , remember that , just a year ago , some us officials were committed to declaring that the us economy had entered a “ summer of recovery , ” which was supported by the belief that the us is “ escape velocity . ”
stall speed is highly risky for economies like the us desperately needed to grow robustly .
without rapid growth without rapid growth , there is no way to reverse the trend toward structural deleveraging , which will not be able to achieve excessive debt deleveraging , but can not prevent an already rising income and wealth inequality .
the private sector can not and will not withstand the risk of stall speed alone .
what is urgently needed is better policymaking .
specifically , policymakers should be open and willing to clarify the unconventional challenges facing the us economy , making the corresponding response , and with sufficient effective policy tools .
unfortunately , it is far from clear that the us ( and europe , where the situation is worse than the us ) , is far from being so .
moreover , in recent weeks , us policymakers have been more interested in pointing out to europe and china than to identify and respond to paradigm shifts , while paradigm shifts are a source of growing us economic problems and social challenges .
this is what is happening in the insights of steve jobs , the world ’ s best innovators and entrepreneurs .
jobs do not only guide paradigm shifts ; they , in fact , create norms .
he is a master of the 化繁为简 ; not only does he not get out of complexity , but he found the way to rebuild and overcome the complexities of complexity .
teamwork is an obligation , not a choice .
instead of seeking a single “ big bang , ” he is aiming for multiple goals .
in the end , this will come from the willingness of evolutionary – a drive to move gradually toward the perfect .
moreover , he is good at selling to believers around the world and realizing his strategy .
so far , us economic policymakers have lagged in this regard .
instead of promising to deliver a much-needed 强化措施 , they are obsessed with a vain quest for “ big ammunition ” to solve all of the economic problems in the us .
the result was nothing .
as it stands , we have not even created the complexity of the complexity of our efforts , let alone to win the public ’ s support for a medium-term vision , a credible implementation strategy , and a package of measures that will suffice at hand .
the persistence of the stalemate , the us economy – already mired in an unemployment crisis , massive fiscal deficits , and massive underwater mortgages , while policy interest rates have fallen to zero – is exacerbating the risk .
in this context , unhealthy balance sheets will suffer even greater pressure , while healthy investors refuse to ride them .
what follows is that the risk of a recession will continue to temper , with the unemployment crisis continuing to deepen , while inequality will continue to grow as a result of a further deterioration in net social safety nets .
america , china , and the productivity paradox
new haven – in the late 1980 ’ s , a fierce debate about the so-called productivity paradox – the massive investment in information technology – did not produce measurable productivity improvements .
now that paradox is back , posing a problem for the us and china , a problem that will emerge in the annual strategic and economic dialogue .
let us return to 1987 , the nobel laureate economist robert solow , who famously quipped that “ the era of computers is not found in productivity statistics . ”
the productivity paradox appears to have been resolved in the 1990s , when the us experienced a spectacular productivity renaissance .
annual productivity growth in the us business sector grew by 2.5 % annually from 1991 to 2007 , compared to 1.5 % in the previous 15 years .
the benefits of the internet age were finally realized .
concern about the paradox of productivity vanished .
but it seems to be premature .
despite another technological revolution , productivity growth has fallen again .
this time , falling productivity is the global trend , affecting the world ’ s two largest economies – the united states and china .
in the last five years ( from 2010 to 2014 ) , average annual growth in us productivity has fallen to 0.9 % .
indeed , in the last two quarters ( 2014 and early 2015 ) , productivity fell at a 2.6 % annual rate .
unless there is a major data revision , america ’ s productivity renaissance is in serious trouble .
china has undergone a similar process .
despite the government ’ s disclosure of productivity statistics , the problem is clear : total employment growth in the town has been stable , and it has been 万人 million per year – far from the government ’ s target growth rate of 10 million .
in early 2015 , hiring seemed to continue to be sustained .
meanwhile , output growth has fallen from a trend of 10 % in 33 years to 7 % today .
this decline occurred in the context of sustained rapid job creation , suggesting that productivity is surely slowing .
therein lies the latest paradox .
revolutionary technologies are creating new markets ( digital media and computerized wearable devices ) , services ( energy management , and dna sequencing ) , products ( smartphones and robotics ) , and high-tech companies ( alibaba and apple ) , no doubt .
the modern-day solow might say , “ the internet of everything is everywhere , ” and it can not be found in productivity statistics .
but is this a paradox ?
northwestern university ’ s robert gordon has argued that information technology and the internet , like automated high-speed data processing and e-commerce , pale in comparison to the industrial revolution , including the steam engine , electricity , and piped water .
he believes that , while these innovations have made huge changes in the major advanced economies – for example , higher female labor-force participation , improved transport rates , urbanization and standardized temperature – these changes are difficult to replicate .
if america ’ s productivity data do indeed come as a result – a trend that would break up in a prolonged period of 16 years , this trend has disappeared – it is possible that all of the achievements that the us has achieved are the interim efficiency improvements that information technology has driven to shift from one technological platform to another .
optimists believe that official figures do not reflect a significant improvement in quality of life , and perhaps so , especially when it comes to major breakthroughs such as biotechnology and online learning .
but this ignores another important aspect of the critique of productivity measures : the undercounting of work time for the availability of portable information equipment .
in the united states , the bureau of labor statistics estimates that the average workweek has been at around 34 hours since the internet began two decades ago .
but this is far from reality : knowledge workers are increasingly outside the traditional office , checking email , updating their reports , writing reports , engaging in collective storms .
indeed , white-collar knowledge workers – that is , most workers in the advanced economies – now need 24 hours per day , seven days per week , without reflecting official numbers .
productivity is not working longer ; it is about more output per unit of labor input .
the undervaluation of output pales in comparison with a small underestimate of the work that information technology has caused .
china ’ s productivity slowdown may be worse than the us .
it is a byproduct of china ’ s nascent structural transformation from capital-intensive manufacturing to labor-intensive services .
in fact , it was only in 2013 that services exceeded the construction and construction industry , and became the economy ’ s largest sector .
today , the gap is widening , and this trend may continue .
given that china ’ s services sector is more than 30 % more workers per unit of output than manufacturing and construction combined , the structural rebalancing of china ’ s economy is shifting growth to less productive services .
until this shift is the problem , china has plenty of time .
gordon argues that urbanization will produce long-term productivity dividends – a dividend that is at least a decade in china .
but there is a stop , and china will begin to look at the so-called frontier of advanced economies .
in that case , china will face the same productivity challenges that the us and others face .
chinese policymakers ’ 重点 growth as a new priority suggests that they recognize the risk .
without strong innovation , sustaining productivity growth will be difficult .
china ’ s recent decline in productivity has been a signal that one of china ’ s most daunting economic challenges will be one of china ’ s most daunting economic challenges .
productivity growth is no escaping the decisive factor in a country ’ s economic performance .
for advanced economies , however , sustained rapid productivity growth has become the exception .
the recent rise in productivity growth in the us and china highlights this reality .
this is disturbing news for a world in which secular stagnation is in the doldrums .
a new blueprint for us-china relations
new york – in the coming decades , how the united states and china respond to changing powers will be the most important factor shaping global peace , prosperity , and governance .
in the long run , other pressing challenges – including russia ’ s relations with the west and the various events in the tumultuous middle east – are inferior .
what makes sino-american relations dangerous is that powerful forces in both countries seem determined to a collision course .
under xi ’ s strong leadership , the government is no longer following deng xiaoping ’ s dictum in international affairs that “ time will never be repeated . ”
the chinese are widely believed to be isolating , containing , and undermining china .
what is disagreeable is that many evidence in the us has fueled this sentiment .
regardless of what us policymakers say in private , they almost invariably say that they are almost invariably the world ’ s dominant power – especially in asia .
the most confrontational manifestation of this stance has been the council on foreign relations in the united states , which argues that the central objective of america ’ s grand strategy must be to “ keep america ’ s primacy in the global system , ” and urge the us government to adopt a series of aggressive economic , political , and military means to “ balance china . ”
this is , they say , not “ containment ” strategy , but the extent to which it is not contained is far from complete .
is there another way to deal with the reality that the forces and mindsets of both sides can not be turned into dangerous conflicts ?
in a new report by harvard university ’ s institution , belfort , the center for international relations , kevin rudd , a former australian prime minister , has proposed a strategy that he called “ constructive realism . ”
this is an unwieldy subject , but his analysis and policy advice are compelling .
the “ realist ” dimension of rudd ’ s argument acknowledges that some aspects of divergence – including taiwan , territorial disputes in the south china sea , and territorial disputes in china , america ’ s asian allies , china ’ s military modernization , and the legitimacy of china ’ s political system – remain uncertain in the foreseeable future .
this means that there is no easy solution – and thus a very cautious management .
the “ constructive ” part of rudd ’ s report , “ constructive ” part of the story , is to address a host of other difficult issues at the bilateral , regional , and global levels – the more that the us should treat china as an equal rival .
in the case of a bilateral scenario , such cooperation could include investment treaties , joint counter-terrorism intelligence groups , cyber security agreements , a consistent approach to managing the military accidents , and mutual ratification of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty .
at the regional level , rudd argues that the us and china can work to develop a joint strategy to promote denuclearization on the korean peninsula , and to end the 战争史 , long-standing japanese war , and align the region ’ s prospects with a more comprehensive and enduring war in the region .
at the level of the global level , rudd argues that the us-china agenda should focus on combating climate change , bolstering the g-20 , the renminbi ’ s internationalization , giving china a greater role in the imf and the world bank , and reform other important international institutions within the un system .
some in the west – including david shambaugh , the veteran chinese observer david shambaugh – still believe that such collaborative adaptation is not necessary , because the failure of economic and political management will allow china to collapse from within .
rudd argues that these people are wrong , and xi will not use his authoritarian measures to reduce growth sharply .
china will continue to rise , and the world – including the us – must find a principled approach to peace and adaptation .
rudd ’ s recommendations are undoubtedly ambitious .
but , given his qualifications – his mastery of the study of mandarin and his constructive policy thinker , with a long-term personal relationship with the us and china – his argument must be taken seriously .
indeed , while rudd ’ s australian prime minister is not quite flat , his own intelligence is one of the top public figures that i have dealt with in the last 30 years .
( this does not necessarily help him to become the next secretary-general ’ s willingness to become the next un secretary-general : the major powers will always prefer modest and moderate secretaries , rather than 有创造力 commander-in-chief . )
the us presidential candidates are unlikely to speak complacent about the us anymore .
but , in the coming years , one can hope that we can hear less “ 超然 , ” “ dominion , ” and much more of cooperation and coordination .
only such a us policy toward china could make the world confident that the twenty-first century will not repeat the mistake of the twentieth century .
a bilateral foil for america ’ s multilateral dilemma
new haven – it is good news that the united states and china seem to have withdrawn from the precipice of a trade war .
while the details are not too many , the agreement reached on may 19 to defuse tensions and promise further negotiations .
the bad news is that the framework of these negotiations is flawed : to address the underlying economic imbalances that the us has generated in a interconnected world , it would be impossible to deal with any agreement .
there is a longstanding disconnect between bilateral and multilateral solutions to international economic issues .
hoover ignored the suggestion , and the global trade war that followed resulted in a small “ big ” depression .
today , president donald trump ’ s interpretation of how to “ make america great again ” is comparable to the former .
politicians have long favored bilateral views , because it could be a contradiction in contradiction : you “ solve ” issues by targeting a particular country .
by contrast , the multilateral approach was endorsed by most economists , because it highlights the balance-of-payments distortions caused by saving and investment .
the contrast between this simple and complicated nature is precisely what economists have often lost in public debate .
the dismal science has never been known for clarity .
the same is true of us-china debate .
china is easily locked into a political goal .
after all , it accounted for 46 % of america ’ s $ 800 billion huge merchandise trade deficit in 2017 .
moreover , china has been accused of violating international rules , from currency manipulation , dumping overcapacity to dumping capacity , and forced technology transfer .
equally important , china has been 身败名裂 in public opinion – with western policymakers , some prominent academics , and others who believe that the country ’ s failure to fulfill the wto ’ s accession to the wto in 2001 .
one of the two senior officials of the obama administration recently published a paper published in the foreign affairs journal : “ the liberal order of the international order , such as the expectation or restraint of the chinese , is more powerful than expected .
as with north korea , syria , and iran , strategic patience has been replaced by the crowd , with the nationalist trump administration taking the lead in attacking china .
and , in such an atmosphere , the opposition from multilateralism , like me , is mixed .
the vast shortfall of us current-account and trade deficits caused by the extreme shortfall of domestic savings – 1.3 % of national income in the fourth quarter of 2017 – is in the interest of the public public opinion .
similarly , when we emphasize that china is only one of a larger segment of a larger multilateral problem : the us has a bilateral trade deficit with 102 countries in 2017 .
we also point to the distortions in supply chains that have been imported by other countries from china ’ s assembly platforms , which would reduce the number of us-china trade imbalances by 35-40 % , but the us trade imbalance has fallen by 40-70 % .
while there may be fallacies , the debate about bilateral politics resonates in the us , because the country ’ s struggling middle class is eager to present its own anxieties .
the argument is that trade deficits lead to unemployment and wage compression .
and , because the merchandise trade gap is already about 4.2 % of gdp in 2017 , such pressure will only intensify in the current economic recovery .
so there is considerable political appeal to china .
so what could be done on may 19 ?
there is little real benefit from the suspension of tit-for-tat tariffs .
all of the attention of us negotiators focused on the goal of reducing bilateral trade imbalances around $ 200 billion within two years .
and , given the extent of america ’ s multilateral problems , this goal is largely meaningless , especially in the last six months , when the us has enacted massive and outdated tax cuts and federal spending growth .
indeed , because the budget deficit may continue to widen , america ’ s saving shortfall will only deepen in the coming years .
this means that both balance-of-payments and multilateral trade deficits will increase , and these deficits can not be addressed by targeted bilateral actions to a single country .
china , for its part , is more cautious about resisting any deficit target , while promising to achieve a common goal of “ effective reduction ” of bilateral imbalances in the us .
china ’ s vague commitment to purchasing more us agricultural and energy products has followed the “ shopping list ” approach of its former trade delegation to the us .
even if china and the us were to break out of america ’ s saving constraints , the us sought a formulaic bilateral solution to its own multilateral problems .
the largest annual contraction in us-china merchandise trade imbalances since 2000 is $ 4.1 billion , but that reduction was the worst in 2009 .
the goal of achieving more than twice that amount for two years is wishful thinking .
finally , any effort to impose a bilateral solution on multilateral issues would backfire , with adverse consequences for american consumers .
without addressing the shortfall in domestic saving , bilateral solutions are simply shifting the deficit from one economy to another .
this is the toughest problem .
china is a low-cost provider of imported consumer goods .
trump ’ s deal would shift the country ’ s share of us multilateral imbalance into higher costs elsewhere – the functional equivalent of raising taxes on american families .
what would it ask for hoover to ask what is “ great ” ?
america confronts new and old europe
us secretary of defense donald trump ’ s remark last year about `` new and old europe '' is exactly the same as words .
he was a european division , but in may , ten countries were included in the european union .
the enlarged europe is truly a new europe .
does this upset the us ?
the european union has 25 years , even more than the united states , with the schuman plan to launch the economy in france and germany .
eight of these new members , the former communist party , were locked in the iron curtain for almost a half-century .
they have shown that the idea of a `` soft power '' in european unity has been a powerful life .
of course , this new europe faces enormous challenges .
per capita gdp per capita is less than half that of the original 15 countries , and there is little concern about the influx of cheap labor .
but the growth rate of the new members ’ average gdp growth is twice that of the old member states , which will have a good effect on stagnant labor markets and sluggish economies .
political politics seems more problematic .
member states are negotiating to amend the draft constitution .
some in europe worry that the constitution will give the courts a mandate to advance the fastest pace of european unity .
the lack of support from the bottom could lead to rejection of such a constitution , because the authorities promised to hold a referendum on the new ground .
on the other side of the atlantic , a majority of americans who focus on the matter are unanimous .
but others express concern that the new europe might be fighting against the us .
not only is france ’ s leaders terrified of the specter of a multipolar world , but recent polls suggest that america ’ s popularity in europe has declined , and europeans ’ desire for independence has grown stronger .
the war in iraq paid a costly price for america ’ s `` soft power , '' which has declined by about 30 percentage points in european countries , including countries that support the war in the united kingdom , spain , and italy .
the recent photographs of torture and sexual insults in baghdad ’ s abu ghraib prison added fuel added fuel .
such a policy change would be a serious mistake .
it is not only fueling anti-american sentiment , but also 过高估计 the new europe to pose a threat to the us .
regardless of what the french can do , attitudes in countries like britain or poland suggest that good trans-atlantic relations can be maintained .
if it does , europe ’ s recent enlargement will be reduced , not fueling , the dangers of fragmentation .
moreover , a number of 客观原因 places current friction between europe and america will not lead to secession .
first , iraq ’ s divided war may mark the end of the twentieth century , but not the start of the twenty-first century .
america ’ s unilateralism is far from clear-cut in other hot spots , such as north korea and iran , which is both costly and elsewhere .
and yet , while the conventional security threat posed by the soviet union has disappeared , the us and europe face a common threat to jihadist terrorism .
this threat is equally present on both sides of the atlantic , though osama bin laden has tried to provoke a wedge between the us and europe .
only by sharing close civilian cooperation , such as intelligence sharing , transnational police cooperation , and tracking financial flows , can terrorism transcend borders .
europe and the us have a common structure of economic interests and values .
while trade has caused frictions among democracies , it also carries significant wealth .
consider foreign direct investment , which is closely linked to the atlantic on both sides of the atlantic .
in terms of values , while there is disagreement between europe and the us , there is no consensus on the fundamental issues of democracy and human rights .
as the writer robert kagan concluded in his book , europe is venus , from venus and america from mars , but the united states , which has finally sought legal policies and 形象 , can not support europe .
in short , the old and old europe is good for the us and the world .
we all benefit from the soft power of an enlarged europe .
america ’ s baby bust
london – as the united states ’ fertility rate fell to 1.75 in 2017 , the news is surprisingly worrying .
by the end of the 1990 ’ s and early 2000 ’ s , the us economy was booming , fertility rates were 2.00 per woman , and 1.8 in the 1980 ’ s .
but in the last five years , economic recovery has been growing stronger , with fertility rates falling .
this may portend a long-term shortage of workers relative to retirees , with pension funds and health-care provision facing heavy financial stress .
but there is no evidence that stronger growth and economic information must produce higher fertility rates – a trend that reflects expectations about the future .
moreover , the fertility rate in the us today will not pose a serious problem – and some benefits .
in all major advanced economies , fertility fell in 1960 and 1970 , with the replacement rate falling below the replacement rate of 2.05 children per woman .
the united states reached 1.77 in the late 1970 ’ s , compared to 1.8 in northern europe and 1.65 in western europe .
while we can not be sure , the shift in the fertility rate is likely to remain in the way of the replacement rate , which would have been sustained by one-off one-off factors .
some argue that america ’ s recovery in the 1990 ’ s was due to economic dynamism and increased confidence , which contrasts sharply with “ old europe . ”
but , over the past 30 years , the average fertility rate for white and black americans is far lower than the replacement rate , owing largely to the higher fertility rate in spain , reflected in higher fertility rates in spain , reflecting a typical phenomenon that is often associated with poorer countries .
but today , latin america ’ s fertility rate has fallen sharply – from 2.9 % in 2000 to 2.1 today , brazil from 2.5 to 1.7 % today , and the us is returning to the typical fertility rate in rich countries .
excluding temporary immigration , the fertility rate in all major advanced economies has become a 演变 2.0 , with most of them falling to 1.9 .
some evidence suggests that sudden deep recessions cause temporary fertility rates to fall , and subsequent rebound , but cross-country comparisons have not shown correlation between the long-term fertility rate and the specific fertility rate within the range of economies – whether positive or negative .
canada ’ s fertility rate is lower , but its economy is as successful and confident as the us .
the strong german growth rate over the last two decades has produced a fertility rate of 1-1.5 , well below the less successful france .
south korea has maintained its economy ’ s economic expansion by 1.3 per year .
latin america ’ s most prosperous economies , chile ’ s most prosperous economy , are experiencing only 1.76 , far less than a successful birth rate in argentina .
so the recent decline in us fertility rates should not be surprising ; if it does not fall to a significantly lower level , there is no need for concern .
of course , in the long run , lower fertility rates , together with the extension of life expectancy , will lead to the ratio of older people over the old age of 65 .
but , because people live longer and healthier lives , retirement ages can and should be raised .
in a world of huge potential for automation , it is likely that wage growth is low , rising inequality , and rapidly rising working-age population , which would be both unnecessary and undesirable , and a slight supply of workers may be able to boost productivity and support real wages .
remarkably , fears that robots will take jobs are far less widespread in japan and china than in western countries with higher fertility rates .
so , in rich societies with modern attitudes toward women ’ s role , fertility rates tend to be below replacement rates , and are generally welcome .
but the degree is important , with low fertility rates , such as japan ’ s 1.4 , which would pose a major problem if long .
the median forecast of the united nations suggests that , from now to 2050 , north and south america ’ s total population will increase by 15-20 % , and will remain stable until the late 2000s .
by contrast , japan ’ s population is expected to decline from 125 million today to around 80 million .
demographic contraction will severely constrain japan ’ s ability to support aging populations .
thus , sensible policies should identify and eliminate the barriers that needlessly curb the birth rate , such as labor-market discrimination , limited parental leave , or inadequate childcare facilities , which are difficult to pursue .
scandinavian countries are exemplary in this regard , though their fertility rates are not restored to replacement rates , but only by 1.75 .
with similar policies in the us , it may be possible to raise fertility rates slightly on the basis of today ’ s 1.75 , creating a favorable net outcome .
but the main response to the recent decline in the us fertility rate should be to accept its inevitability and stop worrying about it .
the us , exporting obesity
cambridge – when us president donald trump ’ s administration runs sharp 上窜下跳 in trade negotiations and plans to repeal the rules introduced by president barack obama , one casualty is likely to be the fight against obesity worldwide .
without control , rapid increases in obesity could slow or reverse the dramatic progress in health care in much of the world over the past few decades and life expectancy .
and by imposing it on countries like mexico and canada , the us is making the problem worse .
one of the paradoxes of modern global capitalism is that more than 800 million people in the world do not have to go to eat , but roughly 700 million people ( including 100 million children ) are obese .
of course , these are not necessarily directly related , because the world has a substantial share of hunger in countries suffering from civil strife or severe government dysfunction .
at the same time , obesity prevalence is broader , with advanced economies and most emerging markets .
although there is some connection between obesity and poverty within some countries , it is noteworthy that obesity rates in wealthy countries like the united states , the united kingdom , and canada are among the highest in the world .
according to the united states ’ disease control and prevention centers , the average weight of american women today is larger than americans ’ average weight in 1960 ( 166 pounds ) .
the average weight of american women in 1960 was 140 pounds , and the average weight of american males today is 195 pounds ( compared to an average height of just one inch in the us over the same period ) .
the same dynamic is in the world , and obesity rates in europe , latin america , and even china are rising .
while it is difficult to measure long-term health outcomes , there is ample evidence that obesity has a high impact on the incidence of II diabetes , heart disease , and certain types of cancer .
the cost of health care is staggering , estimated at nearly $ 200 billion per year .
as childhood obesity rates continue to rise worldwide , the health costs of health care are significantly higher , as the health costs of the future adult population rise .
the causes of obesity are manifold and complex .
yet there is a growing body of evidence that a culture focused on processed food and universal lifestyles is at the heart of the problem .
rapid urbanization in emerging markets is another important factor , with the desire to emulate western lifestyles .
many governments have already launched measures to improve nutrition education .
unfortunately , industrial advertising often leads to such efforts , as the us trade lobbies have done to other parts of the world .
the fact that mexico ’ s adult obesity rate has soared since the signing of the north american free trade agreement in 1993 is a reality that is difficult to ignore .
the direct foreign investment of the processed food industry and the surge in advertising is an important factor in this .
mexico ’ s consumption of sugary drinks almost tripled between 1993 and 2014 , while a new tax on sugary drinks has only fallen only slightly .
the other north american free trade agreement – canada – also experienced an increase in obesity rates , partly because exports from the us led to a sharp decline in the price of fructose .
unfortunately , government regulators are trying to reverse these trends , for example , at the pace of spreading nutrition to the public .
and , for a long time , most governments ’ focus on obese education has focused on rigid regulation of calorie intake , without considering the obvious differences between the precise differences in food prices ( as david ludwig , professor david ludwig , and david ludwig ) .
the skeptics might point out that nutrition guidelines seem to be changing , and last year ’ s sin foods often turned into 超级 food this year .
this is true , but the fact is that nutrition research has made significant progress in recent decades .
beyond education , governments can use other tools to influence people ’ s eating habits .
they can and should , as in the united kingdom , impose restrictions on advertising on child advertising , as in the united kingdom , france , and several other countries ; obesity in early years will cause a lifelong problem .
beyond that , david ludwig , 达瑞许 莫扎法 of tufts university , and i also proposed taxing processed foods , just like tobacco taxes .
and money is available to subsidize healthier alternatives .
it is a fantasy to expect that the current administration , struggling to phase out the current administration ’ s policies , is probably a fantasy .
that is why countries with a new trade deal with the us ( for example , post-brexit britain , or by dismantling the north american free trade agreement ) need to be wary of any provisions that the us has made to reduce obesity .
“ america first ” financial reform ?
london – us president donald trump has also been working to find a government staff who is sympathetic to his positions , to help him turn twitter into policy , and obama ’ s appointees are leaving the federal government and other institutions .
for the financial industry , the most significant departure was daniel tarullo , the fed governor who led the charge of financial regulation in the last seven years .
it is hard to know that tarullo is universally popular .
he was a tough negotiator , with a strong voice for financial firms .
but , with his departure , europe will shed his tears .
european banks , and even european regulators , worried that he is committed to a more stringent basel double standard ( or , in the words of bankers , the basel 4.0 ) , if the standard is implemented in the form of the us , and especially european banks .
his departure has given rise to uncertainty .
但塔鲁洛 is also keen to promote international regulatory cooperation , with frequent visits to regulatory cooperation .
for years , he has been chair of the financial stability board ( fsb ) , but the head of the regulatory and regulatory cooperation committee ( fsb ) .
this has never been the case , as he committed his firm working to work with colleagues like the fsb and the basel committee on banking supervision to meet the regulatory agreement , thereby enabling all banks to compete on the playing field .
so far , some of the past criticisms of him are anxious about his departure .
who will succeed him ?
the 2010 dodd-frank act of 2010 required the federal reserve to establish a vice-presidential post – no one who has been unemployed – to lead the fed ’ s regulation .
will that appointee , who is now voting for a candidate , is as committed to international roads as tarullo ?
or will his main task be to build a regulatory wall , leaving us banks subject to global rules ?
we do not know the answers to these questions , but fed observers saw alarming signs of the federal reserve ’ s chair , patrick mchenry , a vice chair of the house financial services committee on january 31 .
“ while president donald trump has made it clear to the us that the us has a stake in international negotiations , ” henry kissinger wrote , “ the fed still rules on the regulatory standards of global technology and global technology , which is not transparent and accountable , and the fed lacks regulatory authority . ”
this is unacceptable . ”
on february 10 , janet yellen adamantly rebutted mchenry ’ s accusations .
the fed , she noted , has the power to do it , with the basel accords non-binding and , in any case , “ strong regulatory standards that enhance the stability of the us financial system ” and promote financial firms ’ competitiveness .
but that is no endgame .
now , the battle lines have been drawn , and mchenry ’ s letter suggests that some opinions close to the president ’ s republican party will be carried out in congress .
washington , dc , there is always something to do with that or that in the field .
while yellen ’ s argument is correct , the fed ’ s mandate to engage in international negotiations does not mean that it must do so , and the new appointments might be considered to be the fed ’ s failure .
such a reversal would create tensions within the fed , and the fsb , or indeed the basel committee , remains unknown .
at the beginning of the early 1930 ’ s , when the bank of international settlements ( secretariat ) was established , the us government had rejected the commission ’ s seats , while the us represented the jpmorgan .
today , it is clear that this arrangement works well .
these problems are not the same as the interests of europe .
european capital adequacy directives typically translate basel accords into eu law .
if the basel process stalled , the transatlantic agreement on the transatlantic capital market will be extremely difficult to achieve .
brexit has further complications .
with no special agreement in the eu ’ s 27 and united kingdom , the uk and eu regulators will cooperate in basel , not in the european banking authority .
financial regulation entered a highly uncertain period when central bankers are disconnected from the devil they know , and that policymakers will be in a highly uncertain period – and that policymakers will be greeted with 马 .
fed governors are unlikely to be spotted at 边 , or at the golf on the golf , but they are far from certain .
nothing is taken for granted .
the financial world is holding its collective breath .
tackling america ’ s economic policy shocks
new york – the united states will consider a series of tax and trade moves this year , and emerging-market economies might face depreciation pressures and volatility .
three major us economic uncertainties , in particular , will affect emerging markets in 2017 .
the first is a border adjustment tax , which would allow us exporters to obtain tax credits , but taxing us imports – or eliminating deductions , as well as eliminating deductions .
both president donald trump and the republican-controlled congress have expressed support for this proposal , and it is likely to become a reality .
this tax , even the expected expectation of its implementation , would push up the dollar ’ s exchange rate ( ironically , at least partly to offset the improvement in the us trade imbalance that the trump administration expects ) .
the second uncertainty is that the us may respond more aggressively to china ’ s exports to the us .
the trump administration has repeatedly said that it will confront china with china on unfair trade practices .
trump has openly mused about imposing a 45 % tariff on chinese imports .
implementing any similar measures would lead china to export demand , causing downward pressure on the renminbi .
but the move will also lead to many other currencies .
my research with 王志 , muhammad 音译 , and 朱坤福 发现 found that about half of china ’ s exports to the us are value-added products , and components from south korea , japan , taiwan , singapore , and other economies .
because products from china are often part of a globally integrated global or regional value chain , the us has reduced imports of china indirectly ( but rapid ) to the decline in exports of other asian economies .
this transmission mechanism is likely to offset the direct increase in these economies ’ exports , at least in the short and medium term , because 组织 production chains are no easy feat .
the third move that the us may destabilize emerging markets is the fed ’ s tightening of monetary policy faster than expected .
a sharp interest-rate hike would translate into a weaker dollar and currency depreciation in developing economies .
commodity exporters may be the exception .
higher us infrastructure spending could trigger an increase in demand for commodities , triggering higher prices , leading to a currency appreciation .
but , even in these countries , some commodity exporters – such as brazil and russia – are not necessarily able to see exchange-rate improvement , because their weaker economies have other powers to drag down .
the challenge that us policy changes pose to emerging-market currencies involves not only devaluation pressures , but also volatility .
so how should emerging-market countries strengthen their resilience to the shockwaves ?
one option is to optimize the structure of capital inflows .
then there is the increase in exchange-rate flexibility .
for the former , my research and 童辉 show that countries with severe reliance on foreign banks or international capital markets are more vulnerable to capital flight than countries that rely mainly on foreign direct investment ( fdi ) .
so , to counter exchange-rate volatility or the changes in the us exchange rate , emerging markets should work to improve the business environment to attract fdi , thereby reducing their reliance on short-term “ hot money ” – thereby reducing the impact of sudden capital-flow reversals on them .
this adjustment is particularly important for countries with rigid labor markets .
one risk of a fixed exchange rate is that the currency is overvalued or undervalued , both against economic stability .
when the forces affecting the equilibrium exchange rate intensify , the likelihood of an overvalued or undervalued currency would be substantially higher .
the face and timing of america ’ s future policy are uncertain , but it is clear that capital-flow management and nominal exchange-rate flexibility are well prepared .
in benjamin franklin ’ s words , if developing countries were not ready , they must do the job .
why millennials will reject trump
new york – the key political divide in the united states is not between parties , but between generations .
the millennial generation ( aged 18-35 ) largely opposed trump , and will become the backbone of trump ’ s policies .
older americans are divided , but trump ’ s base is above 45 .
after issue on issue , younger voters will reject trump , viewing him as a politician over the future .
of course , this is an average of average , not absolute .
but the numbers confirm the generational divide .
according to a export poll , trump won 53 % of the 65 and older voters , 42 % of the electorate , and 42 % of voters in 18 .
in a 2014 survey , 31 % of millennials were considered liberal , compared to 21 % of the baby boomers ( aged 68,000 ) and only 18 % of the silent generation ( 69 and above ) .
the message is not that today ’ s young liberals will become tomorrow ’ s older conservatives .
the millennial generation is far more liberal than baby boomers and silent generation of young people .
their party is also far less partisan , who will support the politicians who address their values and those who need them , including the third parties .
the politics of young people and seniors are at least three different .
first , young people are more socially liberal than older generations .
for them , america ’ s growing racial , religious , and sexual diversity is not a big problem .
the diverse societies of whites , african-americans , hispanics , asians , and asians , and the diverse societies of native-born americans and immigrants , are well known for the us , not a dramatic change in the past .
they accept sexual and gender categories – lesbian , gay , transgender , 双性人 , bisexual , bisexual , and others – that are essentially taboo ( or unknown ) for their grandfather ’ s grandparents .
second , young people are facing an unprecedented economic challenge of information .
they enter the labor market at a time when market returns flow quickly to capital ( 机器人 robots , artificial intelligence , and smart machines ) .
instead , older rich rich enjoy the stock market boom brought by the same technological revolution .
trump is touting a proposal to reduce corporate taxes and taxes on taxes , which would further favor older wealthy people ( who occupy trump ’ s cabinet ) , while the burden of a higher burden on the burden is even greater .
in fact , young people need the opposite policy : higher taxes on the older generation , for higher education , job training , renewable-energy infrastructure , and other investments in the us ’ s future .
third , compared to their parents and grandparents , young people are more aware of climate change and its threats .
trump , with its last 狂欢 狂欢 , paralyzed the elderly generation , while young people have only failed .
a generational divide on global warming owes part to many of the older americans , including trump , ignoring climate change and its causes .
older americans didn ’ t learn about climate change .
they never received basic scientific knowledge about greenhouse gases .
thus , they want to put their short-term financial interests above the deadly threat of their grandchildren .
in a 2015 survey , 60 % of those aged 18-24 said that human activity was causing global warming , compared to 31 % of those 65 and older .
a survey released in january found that 38 % of the us survey respondents aged 65 and above have supported fossil fuels , not renewable energy expansion , with only 19 % of those aged 18-25 .
trump ’ s economic policies are geared toward this older , 肤色 , native-born us .
he supports tax cuts for older wealthy people , which would give young people more debt burdens .
he is indifferent to the $ 1 trillion student debt deficit .
he 翻出 the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) in the 1990 ’ s , rather than facing the more important twenty-first-century employment challenge posed by robotics and artificial intelligence .
he is obsessed with making it more profitable for the us coal , oil , and gas reserves to contribute to the future environmental catastrophe .
one might attribute trump ’ s backward-looking mindset to his age .
the trump era of 70 is the oldest new president in american history ( ronald reagan was a slightly younger one ) .
but age is hardly the only reason for the day .
bernie sanders is undoubtedly the most audacious of the ideas of the 2016 presidential candidate , and the hero of the millennial generation is 75 .
young people are encouraged by pope francis , who is 80 years old , because he will worry about their concerns – whether poverty , job distress , or vulnerability to global warming – and , rather than as 粗鲁 , as trump and his ilk do .
the key question here is thinking and political orientation , not age .
trump is the most prescient ( and distracted ) in all history of history .
he is simply not aware of the real challenges facing younger generations in the face of new technologies , labor-market shifts , and 泰山压顶 student debt .
trade wars with mexico and china , as well as ill-conceived and ill-conceived “ 禁穆令 , ” can not be solved .
trump ’ s political success is a blip , not a turning point .
today ’ s millennials , with their future-oriented perspective , will soon dominate american politics .
the us will be a country with many ethnic , social freedoms , and conscious of climate change , and the economic benefits of new technology will be shared more equitably .
too many observers remain fixated on traditional partisan divisions in the us congress , and that change will soon be a decisive factor .
sanders has almost won the democratic nomination ( if he wins , he will likely win the election ) , with his full attraction of the millennials .
the millennial generation is coming , and it is likely to push the president that they support in 2020 .
what makes america great
cambridge – presidential inauguration and commencement ceremonies are usually emotional events .
these ceremonies mark an end to the end of a country or an individual .
though the commencement ceremonies are so common for me , i have been excited when i see a student ’ s journey and start thinking about them .
in our ceremony , a highlights is that several professors and public figures 逐字逐句 john f. kennedy ’ s inaugural address .
it was a text written 56 years ago , representing a different world , a world in which the cold war , the threat of nuclear armageddon , and the challenges faced by a large number of independent poor countries account for policymakers ’ attention .
but , in less than 14 minutes , this inaugural address can move and encourage every person on the table , including half of the graduates and their families .
to understand why , it is worth recalling that .
at first , kennedy vowed to defend friends of freedom , against the enemies of freedom : “ to make every country aware that , whatever it wants or bad , we will be able to take all of our costs , take all of our costs , and keep our friends , ” to ensure freedom of life and success . ”
he has also promised to fight poverty : “ living in the countryside , hungry half of the planet , and half of the planet : we are committed to helping them to fend for themselves , regardless of how long it takes to help them . ”
if a free society can not help many people in poverty , it can not save the few rich . ”
and that commitment is the cornerstone of the western hemisphere ’ s solidarity : “ we have a special commitment to our brethren in the south of our borders , and we make a special good thing – a good thing to make our good good . ”
finally , there is the ethic of service for the public good : “ there ’ s also my fellow americans : don ’ t ask the country what you can do for you – ask what you can do to your country .
my fellow citizens of the world : don ’ t ask the us what you do to do you , ask what we can do for our people . ”
these words have lasting emotional appeal because they refer to a potentially difficult approach to action , driven by their commitment to the common values of american and world citizens .
this approach – based on rules-based rules , rather than building on individual transactions – enables the us to create and sustain a national coalition that can ensure peace and peace .
fast-forward to now .
president-elect donald trump ’ s campaign rhetoric is based on such recognition : the us has fallen from its former greatness .
employment went to mexico and china because weak leaders negotiated a bad deal .
immigrants , mainly illegal immigrants , have taken the rest of the jobs , while they have been killed in 空余 time .
that is why the us needs a president who put america first and knows how to do so in every opportunity , and to advance its interests in the us .
i suspect that the inaugural address based on these ideas can strike and inspire a lot of audiences at commencement ceremonies , especially when many people are citizens of other countries .
such a speech would not encourage anyone to “ bear any burden ” for any universal principle or challenge , whether human rights or global warming .
it can not 劝诫 us .
in the history of history , few strong countries can develop such a sense that they are not based on ethnic heritage , but on a set of values that all citizens live .
for the us , this is “ life , freedom , and happiness . ”
for the soviet union , it was the world ’ s have-nots – “ workers unite around the world . ”
the eu is based on the universal values and principles that can attract 28 countries to join ; despite brexit , six countries are still working to join .
instead , today ’ s great and powerful russia – or the third reich – may be able to win the support of its own citizens ; but these countries can not form the basis of an international order that other countries yearn for .
the power of america ’ s great and leading world is based on universal values , which are the foundation of the rules that protect the other rights , rather than trying to establish a system based on the benefits of the other .
such a us would find it the ability to lead the world ’ s ability to lead the world with an abundance of goodwill and mistrust .
other countries will unite against america ’ s bully .
can it inspire the new graduates , as kennedy ’ s inaugural address incited today ’ s graduates ?
america ’ s turn from 教师爷
cambridge – when america ’ s large financial crisis continues to unfold , one can only hope that us policymakers will be able to hear about half of advice from developing countries as they hear advice from developing countries .
the us does not seem to recognize that their “ sub-prime ” mortgage bust is in common with many banks that have swept the global banking crisis since 1945 .
the good news is that many of the world ’ s leading policymakers , especially from emerging markets , have seen this situation .
if us policymakers were to listen , they know how to handle them from the experts who have survived the financial crisis .
unfortunately , the parallels between today ’ s us crisis and the past financial crisis are not mere hyperbole .
in essence , it is clear that banks use off-balance loans to finance highly risky projects , exotic financial instruments , and excessive excitement about the new market .
but there is also a strong parallel in common .
professor reinhart and i systematically compared the us sub-prime crisis to the worst of the 19 worst financial crises in the last 60 years .
these include the massive crises in scandinavia , spain , and japan , and lesser events , such as the us saving and loan crises in the 1980 ’ s .
almost all of the major indicators , including asset and housing prices , a rising trade balance , a surge in government and resident debt , and the growth trajectory before the crisis have sent red flags to the us .
simply put , capital flowing to the us artificially drives down interest rates and inflated asset prices , leading to lax banking and regulatory standards and ultimately causing disintegration .
at the beginning of the 1990 ’ s and the beginning of the asian financial crisis in latin america and latin america , they have heard advice not only from the imf , but also among prominent representatives of diverse backgrounds and experiences .
the us should do so .
the imf ’ s president , 思 卡恩 , could easily start with any prior crisis countries , including mexico , brazil , south korea , turkey , japan , japan , and sweden , not to mention argentina , russia , chile , and many others .
it should be acknowledged that the imf ’ s panel would be spared the current hypocrisy .
in the 1990 ’ s , the us treasury strongly encouraged asian tightening to tighten fiscal policy .
but today , the us congress and the president are committed to adopting a massive , reckless fiscal stimulus package that is primarily aimed at limiting the next president ’ s scope for simplifying the us tax code and eliminating the budget deficit .
the americans firmly told japan that the only way to clean up japan ’ s economic woes is to remove debt losses and rehabilitate the financial system through schumpeter ’ s “ creative destruction . ”
the us authorities now seem willing to consider any measures to ensure that their main banks and investment companies fail to fail , regardless of how much inflation is inflationary .
for years , foreign governments have complained that america ’ s hedge funds are not transparent about stability .
now , many american politicians are complaining about the transparency of swf ’ s ( that is , large government investors in asia and the middle east ) , which are taking us pride in 花旗银行 assets like citibank and 美林公司 .
indeed , it is not a bad thing to invest more in the economic well-being of countries like russia and china .
yes , the imf should establish a voluntary code of conduct for sovereign wealth funds , but it should not be used for weapons of financial protectionism .
for years , i and many others complain that emerging markets need a larger share of representation in global financial governance .
today , the problem goes far beyond symbolism .
the us economy is in trouble , and its problems are unlikely to be limited to the us .
experts from emerging markets and elsewhere have much to say about dealing with the financial crisis .
obamacare and effective government
berkeley – if historians look back at the 2010 obama administration ’ s controversial health-care reform – american patients protection and affordable care act – we predict that they will not spend their attention on its rules , its troubles , and its web sites .
on the contrary , we believe that historians will focus on how “ obamacare ” encouraged an increase in the costs of an increasingly dysfunctional system , even if it left millions of previously excluded americans .
innovation is perhaps the least discussed issue in health-care reform .
but it is the key to “ bending ” the curve curve in health-care costs , because it provides high-quality health care .
obamacare provides a powerful new incentive for such innovation .
in the 1980 ’ s , us health-care spending was almost twice as rapid as economic growth , from 9.2 % to 17.4 % of gdp .
many factors contributed to this increase , but most experts agree that the most important reason for this is the 计费 system , which encourages health-care providers to provide expenses as many as possible , rather than maintaining health and effective treatment of diseases .
the aca has changed all of this by building new incentives to boost health-care delivery – for example , by reducing expensive and unnecessary hospital infections and 住院 ( readmissions ) , adopting electronic medical records .
most important , the aca provides incentives for the creation of “ affordable care organizations , ” “ 捆绑 systems , ” and other health-care services , thereby encouraging better treatments , especially for patients with many chronic diseases .
these patients account for about 10 % , but they paid about 64 % of total health-care costs .
across the us , providers , insurers , non-profits , and local governments are responding to the aca ’ s incentives .
the federal medicare and medicaid programs for medicare and medicaid have just announced the second round of appropriations – $ 6.65 billion in 28 states , three territories , and the district of columbia – to boost health-care delivery .
of course , it is too early to declare victory , but obamacare seems to be working .
according to the recent analysis by the council of economic advisers ( cea ) , about 10 million people in 2014 were receiving health insurance from the aca – the largest year in four decades .
but the real surprise is that growth in health-care spending slowed sharply in 2012-2013 , with gdp growing at a similar pace .
this contrasts sharply with the previous half-century ; indeed , it created the slowest growth in real per capita health-care spending .
to be sure , the aca is only one factor in this promising trend ; growth in health-care spending is often slowing as the economy slows .
but medicare spending , which is not affected by recession , has slowed with private health spending .
in recent research , the cea calculated that the aca ’ s medicare reforms contributed a large share of the slowdown in health-care spending .
the aca is a good example of how governments can be able to promote innovation by providing goals , direction , and incentives , rather than by pursuing solutions .
the role of government is like venture capitalists , providing seed money and financial support to promote innovation .
in this scenario , different actors – medicare and federal medicaid , state and local governments , private insurers , doctors and social entrepreneurs – collaborate to forge effective solutions that account for a portion of government revenue .
for example , responding to the aca ’ s incentives and flexibility , arkansas and oregon launched bold experimental measures to revamp medicaid – one that rewards better outcomes , healthier health-care providers , and health providers .
in camden , new jersey , jeffrey brenner , the family doctor , has pioneered strategies to reduce hospital hospitalization through “ 使用者 ” ( super ) , a small federal medicaid patient who often uses expensive emergency treatment .
brenner synthesized “ hot spots ” around camden , and sought to figure out why some in the region will be so large .
the problem is not fraud , but rather a lack of cooperation , particularly basic primary care and lack of attention to basic risk factors .
the most expensive 1 % patient is often a disease , which accounts for 30 % of 坎 public health spending .
brenner ’ s 联盟 alliance , founded in 2003 , was founded in 2003 by a philanthropy , robert wood , and private insurers , to united health care .
the government is now providing more support , with similar programs in maryland , colorado , pennsylvania , and north carolina .
oregon is “ pay-for-success ” negotiations with the federal government .
the state will gain $ 1.9 billion over five years to revamp the federal service service for camden ’ s approach .
oregon receives that money only if the cost per capita is significantly lower than in the other states .
now , oregon is on the way .
arkansas , which provides 20 different medical services to “ program ” ( including hip and 膝盖 , pregnancy , 结肠镜 , asthma , and 充血性 heart failure ) , has turned from a fee-for-service model to a quality outcome .
so far , the effect has been good – not only to reduce costs , but also to link services with best practices .
governments can stimulate innovation by providing incentives that pool multiple actors ’ strengths .
in health care , this means taking advantage of the purchasing power of medicare and medicaid , the risk of social entrepreneurs and charities , and the dynamism of markets and private firms .
and health-care reform is just one example of what governments can do by setting targets , encouraging innovation , and providing the public with the resources to expand useful solutions .
one hopes that a quarter-century later , historians will look back at the aca as the start of a new era , in which public and private communities develop innovative solutions to complex social problems – and thereby restore trust in the government itself .
america ’ s hidden debt
washington , dc – former us treasury secretary lawrence summers recently quipped that , “ fiscal stimulus is like a drug with tolerance of tolerance ; to sustain sustained growth , the deficit must grow . ”
people like summers worry about the deficit because they suspect that the government ’ s borrowing is ultimately being used to boost gdp growth over the longer term .
unless the portfolio changes , the debt-to-gdp ratio will continue to grow , until disaster strikes .
others disagree .
for example , paul krugman , the leftist nobel laureate economist paul krugman , believes that a “ debt crisis can not happen in countries like the united states . ”
john 塔姆 , the economic political-economic editor of the right , also felt that “ the endless 危言耸听 of the budget deficit is irrelevant . ”
but , despite disagreement about the sustainability of us government debt , they are all accepted by the accuracy of the standard approach to measuring it .
this is a mistake , and perhaps disastrous .
the us congress ’ s budget office recently reported that the federal budget deficit in the first ten months of the fiscal year was $ 1160 billion higher than it was year before .
the cbo is now expected to reach $ 1 trillion by 2020 .
this is worrying , but it does not reflect the harsh fact that last year ’ s annual deficit almost certainly exceeded $ 1 trillion .
to understand this , the us could imagine the us as a house of smallpox .
if you want to sell home to the buyer of a mortgage , the federal reserve would demand that you assess the home , and evaluate the results would be required to repair the roof .
in this case , you can not delay maintenance .
the law requires that you disclose and pay for the hidden costs of repairing the roof , or you are stealing the buyer ’ s interests .
indeed , unlike mortgage mortgages on balance sheets , you may not regard roof maintenance as a current liability .
but postponing that spending does not make the problem disappear .
and the federal government has some of the outstanding debt that people do not hear .
the debt that has already been accounted for is the $ 305 trillion held by public debt in the form of us treasury bonds ; and , without 85 % of the debt , water systems , water systems , and 54560 have the potential to extend the costs of a low-carbon , low-carbon energy system .
but these are only two broad examples .
so how much hidden debt is america ’ s debt ?
we rely on rough estimates .
for example , according to a 2016 report by the american society of civil engineers , upgrading the country ’ s crumbling infrastructure will cost $ 5.2 trillion .
according to the international energy agency ’ s 2014 report and our calculations of the share of us carbon-dioxide emissions , the shift to clean-energy systems would cost $ 6.6 trillion .
combined , $ 11.8 trillion is contained in unaccounted-for non-inflation-adjusted liabilities .
to be sure , these debts are not just federal debt .
state and local governments are responsible for most infrastructure and climate costs .
yet more than $ 3 trillion of municipal governments have been overwhelmed by their massive spending facilities and the recent ease of mitigating climate change .
but , because climate change and infrastructure security are national rather than local , this $ 11.8 trillion in infrastructure and environmental 相关 will ultimately be borne by the federal government .
they are the country ’ s “ leaky roof . ”
this figure increases year , because , as bridges continue to crumble , the costs of repairing their costs will only be higher ; with rising sea levels and rising temperatures , the cost of deforestation will increase .
in fact , between 2012 and 2016 , the american society of civil engineers raised the annual gap in annual infrastructure investment in the united states – an increase of around $ 55 billion per year .
and from 2012 to 2014 , the international energy agency ’ s estimate of the cost of a transition to a clean-energy system is roughly $ 270 billion annually .
combined , the inflation-adjusted deficit amounted to $ 2 billion – just because the delayed spending on infrastructure and climate cuts is delayed .
the us federal deficit in 2017 , which is $ 6650 billion , reflects the amount of debt that is actually accounted for .
but if the infrastructure and climate debts that are not included are included , the entire deficit in 2017 will exceed $ 1 trillion .
this is a rough calculation , but they point to a pressing question : why does the us not calculate its hidden debt ?
the short answer is that law does not require that .
the federal “ debt ceiling ” has never been a fixed construct , and it has become a soft “ smallpox card ” that has made it possible for governments to borrow as much as possible .
at the same time , a congressional decision aimed at increasing the deficit by running a deficit over a decade would have been an accounting trick for avoiding responsibility for the 11 and subsequent years of responsibility for the government .
but , just as withholding and delay repairing a leaky roof from home buyers , we are stealing from the future americans when we ignore the government ’ s liabilities in all areas .
unless all debt is counted , we can not even know whether fiscal policy will have positive or negative effects on future growth .
america and india ’ s second chance
new york – indian prime minister narendra modi ’ s visit to washington , dc , in june , is largely absent from india .
but asian diplomats and military professionals are clearly watching closely .
for good reason : the relationship between the world ’ s two most populous democracies can determine the future of the world .
the official joint statement issued by the two governments portrays india as a “ major defense partner ” in the us , entitled access to military advanced technologies .
in a generation , the relationship between the indian and indian relations has been a strategic proximity to strategic proximity – and , in terms of geopolitics , the development of development is fast .
the impetus behind this shift is noteworthy , because many of them are likely to make the two countries more tightly .
the end of the cold war was an important part of the détente relationship , because india no longer needs to deal with the soviet union , and the rationale for non-alignment was no longer .
the second factor is pakistan .
the us has long adopted an even-handed policy toward two strategically important south asian countries .
nonetheless , for most of the cold war , pakistan was seen as a friendly country , and its great rival , india , was viewed as a difficult one .
this view was reinforced by pakistan ’ s importance as an important conduit for weapons to afghanistan ’ s invasion of soviet aggression .
but , since the soviet army withdrew from afghanistan in 1989 , us-pakistan relations have weakened .
pakistan ’ s development of nuclear weapons , providing sanctuary and support to the taliban , and the willingness of the world ’ s most dangerous terrorists , including osama bin laden , will further influence us-pakistan relations .
as a result , america ’ s relationship with india is no longer constrained by concerns about pakistan .
china is also pushing for improved ties .
the motivation is far more fundamental than that of china ’ s border with china .
china ’ s rise has helped to strengthen the country ’ s interests with the us and one another , in order to ensure that it can withstand china ’ s political and economic forces .
domestic politics also has a serious impact on the development of india ’ s relationship – a case for both .
the decline of india ’ s congress has diminished the influence of the political forces that support the us from keeping its distance from the us .
at the same time , the us now has three million citizens , and , like many other immigrant groups , they become more important and powerful .
support for stronger ties in india has become a rare bipartisan foreign policy in the us , and it can be expected that this will continue , regardless of this november ’ s party .
the breakthrough in the bilateral relationship began ten years ago , when the us canceled sanctions imposed by india ’ s nuclear weapons program , and subsequently signed a deal to pave the way for the us to participate in india ’ s civilian nuclear program .
unlike in pakistan and north korea , india is viewed as a responsible nuclear power , with the us now supporting organizations that india ’ s entry into its various efforts to prevent nuclear materials and weapons further .
as india ’ s economy grows , india ’ s economic relationship is strengthening .
bilateral trade has increased to more than $ 100 billion per year .
high-level visits are already commonplace .
closer economic ties and large-scale cooperation in clean energy are the top priority .
cooperation between the two countries ’ military and intelligence agencies would also increase .
indeed , efforts to maintain open and secure action in the indian ocean have been a fait accompli .
the formal alliance between the us and india can influence china ’ s strategic designs .
of course , challenges remain .
bureaucracy , corruption , and poor infrastructure remain constraining india ’ s economy .
they must also ensure that close ties with the us are not just a prime minister or a 党的政策 .
this means making congress fully involved , and to overcome the resistance to new ideas and actions .
it is hard to see some of the irony .
more than a half-century ago , in the early days of the cold war , many people in washington regarded india as a model of apolitical politics and economic development .
for many reasons , things did not evolve in this direction , and india ’ s economic evolution became statist , with politics becoming closer to the soviet union , and more closely than us officials expected .
today , however , india is emerging as a successful example of democratic democracy in close ties with the us .
there is little chance of life in life , and india and the us are likely to reap this opportunity .
america keeping haiti down
as the world ’ s largest regional development bank , the inter-american development bank ’ s work in latin america and the caribbean allegedly “ contribute to accelerating economic and social development . ”
but it has severely damaged these goals in haiti ’ s behavior .
the inter-american development bank , to improve haiti ’ s drinking infrastructure – which is not , say , the worst of the world ’ s worst water conditions – provides an estimated $ 10 million to help prevent a deadly 水致 of drinking water .
in 2001 , us officials threatened that unless haiti ’ s main political party accepts the special political requirements of the seats in haiti ’ s electoral observation , they will use their influence to stop funding for the idb in advance .
soon after the us demands , the inter-american development bank and its members did not lend to the plan , but instead adopted the measures that were never taken , suggesting that the conditions for additional political action in haiti were increased .
these actions violate the idb ’ s own charter , which strictly prohibits banks and their members from intervening in internal political affairs .
some internal emails show that a us attorney of the inter-american development bank ( iadb ) told the us treasury that , though these loans lack legal barriers to legitimacy , the us can effectively prevent the lending process by “ slowing ” the lending process .
indeed , by requiring further scrutiny of lending , haiti will have to pay regular payments before lending .
“ while this is not the ‘ perfect approach to stopping idb lending , ” the lawyer wrote , “ but , however , it is bound to give more of the same amount of funds . ”
in 2001 , the us ambassador to haiti , 迪安 科兰 , famously made the case for the idb ’ s seizure of bank lending and the demand for a compromise that haiti ’ s political party wanted .
these strategies worked .
haiti has no money to pay for repayment borrowing because it has been denied and expected , which would enable the idb to launch bank policies that prevent bank lending .
in a few years later , the us used other delayed tactics , such as the inter-american development bank ’ s goal of changing the target ’ s target .
the consequences of these strategies are devastating .
the city of chemistry , with its miserable drinking water , managed to track the inter-american development bank as the first project a decade ago , but it has not yet seen the implementation of any water program .
research conducted by healthy partners , robert f. kennedy ’ s human-rights memorial center , and new york university ’ s human rights and global center for justice found that there is no available public water in the city of chemistry .
researchers found that three-quarters of the city ’ s water sources contain high levels of 大肠 bacteria , an important indicator of water contamination .
moreover , a staggering 15 % of households report symptoms associated with typhoid .
if the us and other member states join the idb , assuming responsibility for improving state conditions in the americas , they can not only promote their own political agenda , but to use its membership to undermine the right of people who claim to serve services .
the inter-american development bank and the us government must take responsibility for their actions , and implement the necessary transparency mechanisms to ensure that the rights of such rights are no longer occurring . the us congress is asking and government responsibility for an annual review of the inter-american development bank and its funding .
in order to ensure that their commitment to development and human rights in the us and the inter-american development bank is to be made to ensure their commitment to development and human rights , the people of haiti and the us should have a public system in which the inter-american development bank and the united states are open to the public .
new haven – it is too easy to predict .
with the us stock market recovering from a sharp correction in early february , the spell of the great bull market began to return .
today , the recent correction has been defined as a fleeting aberration – a volatility shock that is still highly appropriate .
after all , the view that economic fundamentals – not just the us , but also the world – has been so good for a long time .
but is the fundamentals really that sound ?
for a saving-short us economy , there is no further truth than the 这离 .
in the third quarter of 2017 , america ’ s net national saving rate – the saving of businesses , households , and government governments – is just 2.1 % of national income , just one-third of the 6.3 % average of the 6.3 % average over the twentieth century .
it is important to see savings in “ net ” thinking , which means that , in assessing how much money is left for the expansion of productive capacity , the depreciation of the inevitable or abandoned capacity will be removed .
net savings represent today ’ s investment in the future , and america ’ s calculations are saving close to zero .
alas , the story is not over .
to finance consumption and growth , the us borrows surplus saving abroad to compensate for domestic shortages .
all of these borrowing amounts to a massive balance-of-payments deficit , with a large trade deficit .
president donald trump ’ s administration does not need to be responsible for this sad state of affairs , but its policies will exacerbate the dilemma .
last year , trump signed legislation that would lift the us federal budget deficit by $ 1.5 billion over the next decade .
and now the us has its great wisdom , and it will raise the number of $ 300 billion by the latest deal in order to avoid a government shutdown .
at the time of the economy ’ s proximity to full employment , deficit spending simply makes no sense : such a large increase in the federal budget would be enough to move toward zero net national saving rates .
in december 2017 , the personal savings rate fell to 2.4 % of disposable ( after-tax ) income , the lowest in 12 years , only about one-quarter of the 9.3 % average in the last three decades of the twentieth century .
with domestic saving collapsing , the us has two options – reducing investment and the economic growth that it supports , or increase borrowing from abroad .
over the last 35 years , the us has chosen the latter , with a balance-of-payments deficit of almost every year since 1982 ( only a small exception in 1991 , owing to the gulf war ’ s foreign aid during the gulf war ) .
of course , the same is true of the us trade deficit with these deficits , which are deeply entrenched .
in 2017 , the us ran trade deficits with 102 countries .
the multilateral external trade deficit in a saving-short us economy is probably the most egregious policy blunder made by the trump administration – a shift to protectionism .
further compression of domestic saving positions , which are already weakened , means that current-account and trade deficits continue to rise – a basic focus of macroeconomics that the us has consistently appreciated .
in january , the trump administration ’ s imposition of tariffs on china ’ s solar panels and washing machines to resolve multilateral imbalances will not be helpful in addressing multilateral imbalances .
moreover , because emerging trade barriers are likely to increase – for example , the us department of commerce recently proposed imposing high tariffs on aluminum and steel – the combination of protectionism and expanding trade imbalances is more problematic for the us economy , which is increasingly dependent on foreign capital .
the fundamentals of a saving-short us economy are hardly reliable , but they are more precarious than ever .
lacking a cushion of credible support from income creation , the lack of savings also makes the us more vulnerable to fickle asset prices .
this is especially true for american consumers who rely on the rise in equity and housing prices to support a living way of income inequality .
the same is true for the fed , which relies on unconventional monetary policies to support the real economy through the so-called wealth effects .
fueled momentum in the momentum of the trends in employment , industrial output , consumer sentiment , and corporate earnings , the argument for sound fundamentals is a record that is broken in times of financial-market volatility .
but momentum and fundamentals are two very different things .
momentum is all but invisible , especially for the saving-short us economy .
with policies that are counterproductive in the years ahead , the myth of sound us fundamentals is like a horror story .
america ’ s midterm elections are dangerous
washington , dc – as the united states ’ midterm election approaches , domestic terrorism began to dominate the political landscape .
first , just two weeks after the election , us president donald trump ’ s angry supporters sent 14 bombs to prominent democrats and others who routinely attack him .
( none of these bombs exploded . )
then came the situation further , and the murder , the murder of 11 jews in a pittsburgh synagogue , was murdered .
today , america ’ s citizens of serious anxiety and polarization find themselves with a president who is not interested in calming the people , and it is utterly unsuited to reassuring the country , much less trying to lead the us from the hatred and the deadly partisanship that he unleashed .
if 14 of the 14 自制 bombs that the fbi called “ potential disruptive devices ” helped , the bombers may have killed or gravely injured as trump ’ s adversaries .
the list includes two former presidents bill clinton ( bill clinton and barack obama ) , hillary clinton , former chief prosecutor , and former us chief prosecutor ; former intelligence minister 局长 ； ; and , in the case of the two leading jewish intellectuals , he has been targeted by the trump administration as a “ 低 . ”
despite trump ’ s frequent mention of the many objectives of the bomb – for example , he continues to attack hillary clinton , as his opponent in the 2016 election – trump ’ s defenders are still trying to focus on the audience .
they claim that the mail bomb was the “ fake flag ” of the left , some democrats , and even sending bombs to him , and to blame trump .
so , when the suspected suspects turned out to be a fanatical trump supporter in florida , a white bird filled with trump ’ s entourage for his goal is awkward .
the us law enforcement agency , another target that trump regularly attacks , is very good at fighting lawyers : the suspect was arrested four four days after the 嫌疑人 ’ s 邮箱 bomb .
what is most depressing about the entire episode is that trump is a state leader .
but that should surprise anyone .
how can a us president who has been able to gain a large political interest in dividing the united states , and insisting on sowing hate , sowing hate , and sometimes encouraging violent violence , suddenly – or even pretend – to treat the role of a violent us president ?
indeed , trump ’ s 模式 and relentless denunciations of the media are a model of the “ enemies of the people ” that have led many to believe that their followers are likely to act violently against the news media .
in the wake of the event , the day when clinton and barack obama ’ s bombs were found , a temporary statement was scheduled to take place in a white house ceremony in order to denounce “ the threat of political violence and behavior , ” and indicated that people must unite .
but it didn ’ t last .
by that evening , at a rally in wisconsin , trump began to make fun of his “ trying to become nice ” behavior , claiming that the media were responsible for the violence .
soon he began to fan fear of a caravan of refugees in honduras .
despite a thousand miles of us border , trump continues to portray refugees as an imminent national-security threat , warning that the refugee ranks are “ middle easterners ” in the absence of evidence .
trump ’ s rallies are now almost daily , and his lies are much more frequent than ever .
the upcoming midterm elections are widely viewed as the most important election in the wake of the election on november 6 , when the election will be seen as the most important election in people ’ s memory .
the republicans ’ two-year control of the entire us government – including the house , the senate , the presidency , and the 不久前 brett kavanaugh of the supreme court – could be broken .
the midterm elections following the election of the new president are often viewed as a verdict on the current president , and his party usually falls , especially in the house of representatives .
he told audiences that , though he did not attend the ballot , they should assume that he was part of the vote ( though his approval ratings have now fallen to 40 % ) .
for a long time , it has been assumed that the democrats are more likely to win the house than the senate , because a number of senate seats in the upcoming elections are in the hands of traditional conservative states .
trump ’ s determination and anxiety to continue to control both chambers of congress can be understood .
if the democrats take over the house , the new commission chairman will receive the subpoenas , and will be widely investigated for a wide range of administrative practices and institutions suspected of graft .
but the real fear that trump has made is that the democratic house of representatives will concentrate all of the investigations on his own : the foreign “ 酬金 ” that he has imposed on the constitution ; he has not been able to 脱钩 the family ; he has not been able to 脱钩 the family ;
at least the house of representatives may reach the conclusion of special counsel robert mueller .
in other words , congress will no longer be 宠物 .
but if republicans maintain control of the senate , they would limit the democrats ’ goals .
even if the house of representatives does impeach trump – and that it will not be impossible to say – it will be extremely difficult to convict him in the senate .
whether even the democratic house of representatives control that direction has long been the goal of the party debate .
for the democrats , the nightmare electoral outlook is continued republican control .
in that case , trump will feel more innocent and free than ever .
he could then fire a large number of officials , much harsher treatment , and try to stop mueller ’ s investigation of his electoral team ’ s possible collusion with the kremlin and trump ’ s likely obstruction of justice .
the conventional wisdom may prevail , and the democrats may win in the house of representatives rather than the senate .
but the polls have been fluctuating .
since trump ’ s stunning victory in 2016 , most observers have become more cautious about predicting outcomes .
alliances for peace
washington , dc – i grew up in the shadow of world war ii and the dawn of the cold war .
my father was a 事务处 officer who had an opportunity to watch history closely closely closely : i would never forget and keep him on the beach in normandy .
likewise , i would never forget the strange sense of the bicycle passage from 西柏林 to east berlin , and saw the contrast between liberals and those trapped in the iron curtain .
many years later , what i have shocked is that a generation of leaders won not only war , but also peace .
they worked together .
the us and our partners worked hard to create alliances that provide prosperity and stability to western europe , japan , and south korea .
the old enemy became a new ally , together with a leading global economic system that led to a more prosperous global economy .
even when the cold war raged , leaders found ways to cooperate on arms control and to prevent nuclear armageddon .
in short , by building effective and indispensable international institutions and strategic partnerships , we have not only avoided another devastating world war , but we ended up ending the cold war , raising living standards for hundreds of millions of people around the world .
this is the remarkable story of the twentieth century .
the question now is how the story of the twenty-first century unfolds .
today , the world order faces new challenges .
extremists who engage in religious jihad threaten governments and people everywhere .
technology is accelerating the balance of power between 治国者 and 被治者 , providing opportunities for democratic accountability , and creates obstacles to inclusive politics .
we have come from a world where power is distributed hierarchies to the distribution of power .
statecraft has yet to adapt .
the international institutions and partnerships that emerged during the post-war period need to be sustained and required modernization .
faced with all of these turmoil , some argue that the us should turn inward .
this is a cliché .
some suggested that .
they were wrong after the fall of the berlin wall 25 years ago , when they were wrong .
they are now wrong .
the need for leadership has never been so large , and the us has never been more engaged in the world .
the role of democracy in our first peace in afghanistan ’ s history reminds us that all of the world ’ s blood and money cost the country the same amount of blood and money to help afghans win the war .
we know that 100 % of the chemical weapons that would destroy syria ’ s claim that the chemical weapons that are not being delivered are impossible , just as there is no such effort , just as syria ’ s appalling civil war is not over .
the same is true of asia , where president barack obama and chinese president xi jinping has just pledged to address climate change , and we can see what really leadership is , and how countries can do what it takes to achieve a successful climate agreement , which will also require a successful climate agreement in paris next year .
the world has changed , and we have changed .
the map on the map no longer contains the gravest threats , and the players are no longer divided into two camps .
in the twenty-first century , the back door is everywhere .
thus , the world needs coalition diplomacy .
no country can defeat terrorism alone .
no country can solve the existential crisis on its own .
no country can eradicate extreme poverty , combat potential pandemics , or improve nuclear security .
if i don ’ t face up to the world , we all can not afford a safer , wealthier life .
we must forge new alliances with allies , civil society – yes , and , yes , with the general public – to forge new coalitions .
a good example is the international effort against the islamic state ’ s brutality in iraq and syria .
political , humanitarian , and intelligence tools from more than 60 countries are used to support joint military action .
success does not depend on what a country or even a few countries can do alone , but depends on what we all can achieve by acting together .
in another , equally important front , the us is working with the un to inspire the global response to the threat of ebola .
my personal dealings with more than 50 foreign leaders have been discussed , and we agree that only by coordinating action can we stop west africa ’ s disaster and ebola .
we have made progress on both issues , but much work remains to be done .
this requires a lot of diplomacy , mobilization for decades , and a coalition of alliances with the new partners .
but by overcoming differences , working together to defeat the islamic state , conquer ebola , we are strengthening support for a world order based on collective solutions to shared problems .
cooperation is equally important to consolidate the economic principles that underpin the post-war prosperity of the us and others .
in any country , frustration will not be faster than opportunity .
for example , the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) has shown that obama ’ s resolve with a third of global trade , 40 % of global gdp , and 40 % of global gdp .
both the us and our partners are big .
it is estimated that , in the us alone , the tpp could increase $ 77 per year of real income and support 650,000 new jobs .
the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) , which is negotiating with the eu , provides another big step forward .
genuine partnerships are not built overnight , either for mutual security or shared prosperity .
patient diplomacy and collective will are necessary to advance common goals , as the us has done for decades – peace , prosperity , and stability in the us and our global partners .
closing the investment gap
berkeley – private investment in the united states and other advanced economies has been weak in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , and it is puzzling .
indeed , according to the international monetary fund , private investment fell by 25 % from pre-crisis pre-crisis trends in 2014 .
the depth and breadth of investment are large , affecting not only residential investment , but also investment in equipment and structures .
business investment is significantly lower than anticipated in 2008 , when business investment in the united states collapsed in the last year , owing to plummeting investment in the energy sector .
interestingly , america ’ s investment shortfall and the sharp rebound in returns on capital are occurring .
private capital returns , in some ways , are now higher than at any time in recent decades .
but much empirical research confirms that , at the macro level , business investment depends largely on expectations and output growth , rather than on current rates of return or retained earnings .
according to the imf , the “ accelerator ” theory of this investment explains much of the weakness in business investment in advanced economies since the 2008 crisis .
in this interpretation , us investment growth is consistent with the normal historical relationship with output growth .
in short , private investment is weak primarily because of weak recovery .
firms have reduced their pre-crisis investment plans to adapt to the “ new normal ” of growth in demand for output , more uncertain , and more uncertain .
in the context of weak aggregate demand , stronger public investment encourages more private business investment .
but public investment has also fallen short of pre-crisis expectations , exacerbating , rather than mitigating , private investment .
the accelerator explanation for us business investment is consistent with evidence that the projected demand growth , for example , is relatively strong – for example , in an cable , communication , digital platform , social networking , and until recently – investment growth is relatively strong .
indeed , communications and cable companies account for the largest share of business capital spending in the last three years , followed by energy production and minerals .
differences in innovation opportunities among industries are also consistent with the changing share of business investment .
from 2009 to 2015 , the us equipment investment slowdown slowed , but intellectual property products , including research and development , software , and so-called original works ( the output of artists , studios , and publishers ) .
in cyclical expansions , investment in r & d is typically faster than gdp , and recent trends have been consistent with historical trends .
the accelerator theory of investment suggests that a large number of r & d investment occurs in technology-intensive sectors that are currently projected to be strong in both current and future expectations .
there is also evidence that the distribution of returns on capital is becoming increasingly skewed toward these sectors .
according to the latest mckinsey global institute , the most digitized sectors – ranked by 18 metrics , such as digital assets , digital use , and digital labor – are significantly higher than traditional sectors .
in a letter to the s & p 500 & p 500 company , ceo larry fink , ceo of the world ’ s largest investment management company , has expressed concern about many global companies ’ opportunity to waste the value of their own companies with dividends and buybacks .
in the us non-financial corporations , the share of investable funds used for dividends and share buybacks since the 1980s has increased ( despite ups and downs ) .
during the recession of 2008-2009 , that share was significantly higher , but now it has recovered to around 50 % , with a high historical average .
the macro evidence suggests that the main reason why business investment in the us and other advanced countries has been disappointing since the global financial crisis is weak demand , not excessive funding for shareholders .
but , in the long run , the increase in dividends and share buybacks as a percentage of investment in corporate investment is a symptom of rising shareholder pressure on companies to focus on short-term returns rather than long-term investments .
the mckinsey survey recently investigated 1,000 名高管 and corporate directors , with 63 % indicating that shareholder pressure to achieve short-term returns has increased over the last few years .
indeed , 79 % said they were under pressure to get large financial returns in two years or less .
shareholder pressure is often larger for established firms , and over the last few decades , the us has risen as a result of the decline in corporate startup rates .
moreover , fink and others have warned that linking executives ’ pay to short-term successes , such as quarterly earnings per share or annual stock performance , have encouraged the “ short-termism ” of corporate investment decisions .
diminishing capital gains – that is , the increase in the return to investment – would reduce incentives for short-termism in investors .
larry fink , the center for american progress , and hillary clinton have all proposed this approach .
in its latest ceo , fink also called for major companies to create annual “ strategic frameworks ” for long-term value creation , using quantitative 财务指标 and linking long-term executives ’ compensation to such metrics .
these frameworks , fink notes , should cover environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors that are central to long-term values .
companies can use the new evidence-based criteria developed by the sustainability accounting accounting standards board board to disclose information about esg performance .
the strategic framework for esg disclosures encourages companies and their shareholders to focus more on long-term values than on short-term financial performance .
at the macro level , however , expectations of demand and corresponding innovation will remain the main driver of business investment .
inequality and american children
new york – children are a special group .
they can not choose parents , let alone the broader circumstances of birth .
they did not protect or care like adults .
thus , the international league adopted the geneva declaration on child rights in 1924 , and the international community adopted the convention on child rights in 1989 .
sadly , the us has failed to meet its obligations .
indeed , it has not even ratified the convention on the rights of children .
the us has always prided itself on a land of opportunity , and should be a model for justice and enlightened treatment .
instead , it has become a symbol of failure – “ contributions ” to the global weakening of children ’ s rights in the international economy .
the average american child may not be the worst in the world , but the contrast between american wealth and child conditions is unparalleled .
in the developed world , only romania has a higher rate of child poverty .
the rate of child poverty in the us is two-thirds higher than in the united kingdom , and three times higher than in the nordic countries .
some groups are far worse off : 38 % of black children and 30 % of hispanic children are poor .
none of this is because the us cares about its children .
rather , the policy agenda that the us adopted in recent decades has made its economy widely unequal , leaving the most vulnerable segments of society increasingly behind .
the increasingly concentrated concentration of wealth – and a significant reduction in wealth taxes – implies fewer spending on public goods such as education and child protection .
as a result , american children are worse off .
their fate is a painful lesson to show that inequality is not only undermining economic growth and stability – and economists and organizations like the international monetary fund are beginning to admit that it is the concept of our most cherished society .
income inequality is correlated with inequalities in health , inequality of education , and environmental hazards , and all of this affects children more than others .
indeed , nearly one-fifth of america ’ s poor children are diagnosed with asthma , 60 % higher than poor children .
child learning is nearly double the percentage of children earning less than $ 35,000 per year , and almost twice as many children as a result of their annual income .
some members of the us congress also want to cut food stamps – about 23 million american households depend on food stamps – which would pose a danger to poor children .
inequality in these outcomes is tied to inequality .
in countries where childhood nutrition is inadequate , inadequate access to health care and education , environmental risks are inevitably higher , and poor children ’ s life prospects are far worse .
moreover , part of the country ’ s current opportunity for equality of opportunity is less equal to any other advanced country , owing to the fact that children in the us are more dependent on their children ’ s income and education .
for example , in america ’ s elite universities , only 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the population , with 74 % come from the top quarter .
most societies believe that the standard of living that helped ensure that young people fulfill their potential is a moral obligation .
some countries have even constitutionally mandated educational opportunities .
in the united states , however , the education of rich students is higher than it is for the poor .
as a result , the us is wasting one of its most valuable assets , with some young people unable to acquire skills and engage in dysfunctional activities .
the prisons of states in california , texas , and higher spending on higher education are sometimes higher .
without compensating measures – including pre-school education , which begins at a young age – unequal opportunities for education will translate into unequal outcomes when children reach five years of age .
this should be a spur to policy action .
indeed , while the effects of inequality are overwhelming , they are largely avoidable .
the extreme inequality observed by some countries is not the inexorable result of economic power and laws .
the right policies – strengthening social safety nets , progressive taxation , and better regulation ( especially in the financial sector ) – can reverse these negative trends .
to create the political will needed to meet these reforms , we must make policymakers ’ inertia and inaction with the grim reality of inequality and the negative impact on children .
we can reduce the disenfranchisement , increase equality of opportunity , and thus provide a foundation for more just , prosperous future – a future that reflects the values we have publicly pursued .
why do we not act ?
with adults , he is responsible – perhaps not enough – to be responsible – and not enough to make good decisions – but children ’ s circumstances have no choice but to impose them on them .
perhaps children are more entitled to protection than anyone else – and the us should serve as a model for the former world .
america ’ s conservative crisis
berkeley – at a time when i spent three new books at the very low days of my 书桌 , the “ war ” of brooks , murray ’ s ( the collapse of charles Murray ) , and eberstadt .
in general , they represent an important ideological move that is just a reflection of today ’ s us conservatism , which has little to say about the economy ’ s ability to govern , and in the election arena .
but let us look back to what we call modern conservatism in the early nineteenth century .
some people – the basij ( ric ) and 萨伊 – came immediately on the front – think that when markets or production are temporary , governments should arrange the unemployment rate to build infrastructure .
but their arguments have been rejected by 西尼尔 senior officials , who believed that even food relief should not be : despite millions of deaths from the irish potato famine , “ this is not enough . ”
the main thrust of early conservatism was outright opposition to any form of social insurance : making the poor richer , and they are more children .
as a result , farm sizes fall ( because land scores are on a growing number of children ) , and labor productivity will fall , while the poor become poorer .
social insurance is not only pointless ; it is counterproductive .
a reasonable economic policy is to make people feel 尊王 ( and thus respect property rights ) , 尊父 ( and thus 不会 ) , 尊父 ( and hence 畏惧 sex ) .
then , as long as women adhered to permanent or more than half of the age of child-bearing age , the new population would be reduced , and the environment for the poor would be better off .
fast-forward to the united states ’ 150 years before world war ii , and look at the original and original criticism of the new deal by the chicago school of chicago ’ s new form of social insurance – a “ hierarchy ” that was blocking economic innovation .
as friedman and others point out , the government told the poor : earning more money , we will deprive you of free house , food stamps , and income support .
people are rational , friedman said , so they wouldn ’ t work longer if they do not benefit or benefit .
in the early nineteenth century , the momentous difference between the critique and criticism of the chicago school of social insurance in the early 1970s was that the chicago school ’ s critique is an important point : to provide public support to “ proportional ” the “ proportional ” to public support for the “ proportional ” poor .
from 1970 to 2000 , conservative ( who wanted to stop encouraging the government to encourage 伤风败俗 behavior ) , the centrist ( they wanted to spend the government on their feet ) , and the left ( they want to reduce their own ) form a broad coalition of “ hierarchy ” from social-security systems .
presidents jimmy carter , ronald reagan , george h. w. bush , clinton , and even george w. bush and his supporters created the current system , tax rates , and 税点 that no longer suppress the disincentives of firms .
so what is the problem with conservative critics of america ’ s new generation of social insurance ?
the loss of malthus ’ s collapse is not the only person living in the poor ’ s standard of living , and that it is not tax or eliminating benefits .
for eberstadt , the problem is that the government ’ s dependence on the government is weaker and more dependent on the government .
for brooks , the problem is that it is clear that public programs make life easier for people to vote for 共和党 candidates .
the problem , in murray ’ s view , is that social insurance means that it does not lead to a collapse – and that we need bad behavior that leads to the collapse of the crash , so that people do not make bad behavior .
the key point is that american conservatives believe brooks , eberstadt , and murray .
now , romney believes that he lost the 2012 presidential election because obama gave the latin american 人 subsidies to the health insurance of latino americans , giving women free reproductive health insurance ( without abortion ) to other groups .
he will never “ make them think that they should take personal responsibility and want their lives . ”
indeed , regardless of any candidate , americans who make the government ’ s welfare believe that they are less recipients than their recipients , believe that they would be better off voting for a politician who voted for a good public policy is not easy .
america ’ s conservative problem is not the candidate ’ s choice or rhetoric , but that their ideas are not politically sustainable .
new york – in 1831 , france ’ s liberal aristocracy , alexis de tocqueville , visited the united states in order to write a study of the “ enlightened ” prison system in the united states , which has been held in a 单间 , like remorse .
as a result , the us tour made de tocqueville ’ s masterpiece , america ’ s democracy , in which he preached the world ’ s first genuine liberal democracy , compared to the old world ’ s institutions .
tocqueville also had serious reservations .
the greatest danger to american democracy , he argued , is that the tyranny of the us is the tyranny of most people , and america ’ s suffocating , suffocating , minority views , and dissent .
he believes that any unlimited power , whether personal or political , is bound to end in a mess .
in most cases , democracy requires restraint , just as the government of all other institutions is .
thus , the uk has mixed the power and the prerogatives of the monarchy .
as a result , americans still cherish the constitution ’ s separation of government power .
on the contrary , in france ’ s republican system , the state represents the will of the so-called people .
as a result , its authority is less constrained , which may explain the frequency of street protests and even mass violence in france .
indeed , these upheavals are informal checks on formal power .
tocqueville noted another source of restraint in the us system : the power of religion .
human greed , as well as the temptation of radicalization , was tempered by a common christian faith .
in the us , freedom and religion are inextricably linked .
the spectacle of american politics today seems to have cast doubt on tocqueville ’ s observation .
or , rather , the rhetoric of many republicans aspiring to fill the presidency is in the opposite of what tocqueville saw in 1831 .
religion and freedom are frequently mentioned as talk , but often to promote extreme views .
religious minorities are oppressed .
apocalyptic fears are stoked .
intolerance is promoted .
all of this is in the name of god .
of course , the us is not the only country where fringe demagogues are being poisoned .
in western europe , religious language is less heard than ever , but in parts of eastern europe , turkey , and israel .
the meaning of populism is much more about democracy : liberal elites are responsible for all of our problems and anxieties , whether the refugee crisis in europe or the rise of the global economy , whether “ multiculturalism ” or the rise of radical islam .
populism is causing alarm , because mainstream politicians are becoming increasingly unable to find a convincing way to prevent it .
those who rightly worry about fear of politics like to assume that populism is a threat to democracy itself .
distrust of elites leads to distrust of the system , and hopes that great leaders will allow us to escape the selfishness of our professional politicians leads to a new form of tyranny .
that may be true .
but , indeed , it is not democracy that is under siege .
the phenomenon of donald trump ’ s phenomenon is that old parties can be overthrown by popular outsiders .
social media also make it possible to circumvent traditional authority , such as serious newspapers or magazines , as possible , issuing any perspective .
the power of private wealth to sway public opinion is also disrupting the traditional order , especially in the us .
elitism can be fanned by vast personal wealth , because the elites are defined by education rather than the ability to define them .
angry people who are enraged by populist beliefs , clever bankers , or cynical journalists are more angry than their anger about billionaires .
( the combination of president barack obama ’ s elite and his skin – or , rather , the combination of both – offers so much anger . )
at the same time , people are more empowered than ever before to vote for power .
like the barbaric view of the internet , these figures are no longer subject to traditional political parties .
it is not democracy that has steadily receded , but that de tocqueville thought it was essential to the functioning of liberal politics .
populist leaders increasingly choose to choose their majority as a license to crush all political and cultural dissent .
de tocqueville ’ s nightmare was not in america ’ s reality , but the situation in russia , turkey , hungary ( perhaps poland , and perhaps poland ) is far from the same .
even israel – despite its obvious problems , has been a strong democracy – has also been heading toward this direction , with government ministers demanding that the writer , artists , and journalists demonstrate their “ national loyalty . ”
it is hard to know how traditional elites will retain any authority .
but i think tocqueville was right .
without editors , there is no serious press .
without a party led by experienced politicians , the line of entertainment and politics disappears .
without limits on the preferences and prejudices of most people , intolerance becomes a rule .
this is not nostalgia or 势利 .
this is not a plea to trust anyone with the authority to “ 气场 . ”
anger over elites is not always unjust .
globalization , immigration , and cosmopolitanism are in the interest of a highly educated minority , but sometimes the interests of those who are at times sacrificed .
but the problems that tocqueville discovered in the 1830s are more relevant today than ever .
liberal democracy can not be reduced to populism .
constraints on most rule are necessary to protect minorities , whether ethnic minorities , religious minorities , or the knowledge minorities .
when that protection disappears , we will ultimately lose the freedom that it deserves .
america ’ s indispensable partner
madrid – the united states is preparing for the most exciting – and most cumbersome – political event : open competition for presidential seats .
vice president joe biden seems unlikely to be involved , so that race will not be present .
that is why the election may not be a referendum on the last eight years , but a competition for ideas , and foreign policy is the key .
on the democratic side , former secretary of state hillary clinton may be nominated ( though recent revelations indicate that she has used personal email accounts ) , further strengthening foreign policy in the election .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum
i am the only european member of my group , and , above all , the most important message should be that the us can not afford to see itself as “ indispensable . ”
this is not just a matter of semantics ; it will require the us to rethink its role in the world .
but , whether for the us or the liberal world order that it creates , the benefits of doing so are enormous .
the key to success is whether the us will be able to be the most “ america ” – the exception .
in the united states , the belief that their unique nature is unique to promoting global prosperity , security , and freedom has long shaped us foreign policy .
the world ’ s leaders , “ city , ''
thus , the seed of the 他种 approach , based on the seeds of a value-based approach , created the rules and structures that shape order in the world today .
these rules have created unprecedented economic growth , benefiting everyone ( though the us reaped the greatest gains ) .
ironically , however , the american exceptionalism often leads to america ’ s destruction of the international system that it nurtured .
in fact , the us history has historically characterized an isolationist tendency , as if “ city on a hill ” is a fortress .
once again ( including in the last six years ) , the us is better positioned to leave its own ideas from the world stage .
this trend was not a serious problem before world war ii ( though the people of abyssinia and manchuria differ ) .
but now the us withdrawal from the international system that it built will have serious consequences – namely , a variety of chaos and failure , exemplified by russia ’ s invasion of ukraine .
but isolationism is not the most damaging move in the us .
making matters worse , it is “ exemptionalism ” : out of the rules that it promotes elsewhere – and often actively enforce them .
in the united nations , the list of major international conventions against the elimination of the united nations framework convention on the elimination of the united nations framework convention on the treaty on the limits of the united nations framework convention on the treaty
beyond the grievances that this attitude may generate , america ’ s exemptionalism directly affected multilateral institutions ’ ability to address the challenges that the us is unwilling or unable to solve alone .
how , in the east and south china seas , can the united nations ratify the united nations
us president barack obama ’ s administration has attempted to create an illusion that is changing the illusion that some “ soft ” deals allow the us to participate without binding binding rules .
the link between israeli and israeli prime minister Xi Xi
but , while such arrangements have attracted considerable attention , they have not provided the stability and predictability needed for long-term success .

if the us is to become the world ’ s “ indispensable partner , ” it must recommit to a rules-based order that has yielded enormous benefits to it over the last seven decades – and the world .
first , the us should strengthen the core institutions underpinning the liberal international order .
in the first draft year , it was at the agreement that
indispensable partners mean helping countries help themselves .
this requires vision , commitment , and , above all , leadership .
america ’ s foreign policy after iraq
what next after iraq ?
if president george w. bush ’ s troop “ surge ” fails to deliver a “ victory , ” what lessons can the us learn from its future foreign policy ?
will it turn inward , as it did after its defeat in vietnam 30 years ago ?
will it move from promoting democracy to a narrow realist view of its interests ?
even in discussions in washington , dc , some thoughtful foreign observers have begun to argue that these longer-term problems have been raised .
analysts and pundits are often mistaken about america ’ s standing in the world .
for example , 20 years ago , the general public thought was in decline .
ten years later , as the cold war ended , the new public view was that the world was a superpower .
some neo-conservative pundits believe that the us is so strong that it can decide on its own will , and others have to follow .
charles Krauthammer famously described this view as a “ new unilateralism , ” which had had an important impact on the bush administration before the attacks of september 11 , 2001 .
but the new unilateralism is based on a profound misunderstanding of the nature of world politics .
power is the ability to achieve what needs to be desired .
whether the resources with which they have it depends on the environment .
for example , if the war is carried out in the desert , a large 现代化 is a powerful resource , but if it is in the midst of the swamp – as in vietnam – the us has discovered in vietnam .
in the past , there was general thought that military power dominated most issues , but in today ’ s world , the great context of power varies .
i have likened today ’ s political power to a three-dimensional chess game .
the world is indeed unipolar , and it is likely to persist for decades .
but in the middle of the middle of economic relations , the world is already multi-polar , and the us is unlikely to be able to work with europe , japan , china , and other countries without the help of its own .
transnational issues beyond the control of governments – including from climate change to pandemics to transnational terrorism – are messy , and thus pointless in this context .
but it is on this bottom board that we are seeing the biggest challenges we face today .
the only way to deal with these problems is through cooperation with others , which will require the attraction of “ soft ” power and hard power and hard power with a simple military solution that keeps us going .
the new unilateralist who dominates bush ’ s first administration mistakenly thought that a unipolar distribution of power in the military context is enough to guide foreign policy .
like a young child with a hammer , they believe that all issues are like nail .
their approach to thinking is now obvious .
in playing a three-dimensional chess game , one is focusing only on a board that is doomed to fail in the long run .
fortunately , this pendulum is now slipping toward cooperation .
in bush ’ s second term , some of the most extreme unilateralism left the government , while the president himself adopted a more multilateral approach than it was in dealing with north korea or iran .
similarly , all complaints about the un , the united states and other countries , have been used to clean up the legacy of the last summer war in lebanon .
americans now view cooperative action on global climate change more favorably .
similarly , the threat of pandemics means that americans may finally recognize the importance of a stronger world health organization , just as the problem of nuclear proliferation makes it more clear that the international atomic energy agency is more important .
the nature of these problems means that the us has not returned to the luxury of inward , whatever the outcome of iraq .
this is not a question you can leave abroad .
they follow suit and go back home .
america ’ s foreign policy is also unlikely to return to a narrow realism , which emphasizes democracy and human rights .
while the iraq war has discredited the idea of coercive democratization , republicans and democrats remain strong in their foreign policy orientation .
the problem facing whoever elected president in 2008 will be to seek the right pragmatic way to advance democratic values and adjust official rhetoric accordingly .
when official rhetoric trumps reality , others think it is hypocritical .
americans need to find their commitment to democracy , freedom , and rights in a way that respects diversity and others ’ views .
the lesson that iraq offers is to develop civil society and the importance of civil society , before trying to hold broad elections .
democracy is not just elections , because it requires significant investment in education , institutions , and promoting non-governmental development .
it must be rooted in local society and bear its characteristics , not imposed abroad .
the more likely the us response to the war in iraq is unlikely .
the paradox of american power is that the world ’ s only military superpower can not protect its citizens by acting alone .
us foreign policy after the midterm elections
washington , dc – one thing missing from recent us midterm elections has been missing – foreign policy .
although there is much talk about immigration the caravan from central america to the us , there is little attention to issues like china , iran , north korea , and even russia ’ s trade and cyber networks .
this will change as democrats retake control of the us house of representatives .
the rest of us president donald trump could turn to the favorite tactics of autocrats around the world : creating a foreign-policy crisis to distract the public ’ s attention to homegrown problems .
trump ’ s determination to control the headlines makes him more likely to stoke attention to the middle east when time comes to the middle east , rediscovering north korea ’ s nuclear threat , and forcing the democrats to make tough choices about russia ’ s muscular or entry into arms race .
trump may also decide to use congress as a foreign-policy foil , turning international challenges back into the hands of lawmakers , thereby shifting the pressure to move to good responses .
after all , in trump ’ s “ i won ’ t lose ” a worldview that has lost “ you , ” it is almost as good for the failure of the democrats ’ successes in the democrats ’ success .
with the us house of representatives being placed under “ new management ” ( including a record number of democratic women ) , trump has a tempting target .
he has plenty of incentive to get the newcomers out of the ball so long as they lose their eyes .
in this new contest against the blame , syria has a problem .
eliot , the incoming chairman of the house foreign affairs committee , has indicated that the democrats might seek congressional authorization in syria .
but there is no credible plan to end the syrian war or support syrian civilians , except for making syria ’ s ruler , bashar al-assad , too reckless to use chemical weapons .
any move by democrats will not be welcomed by voters , and will only distract trump from the lack of attention to his own plan .
trump will continue to push his threat to the us from the 2015 iran nuclear deal ( formally known as the jcpoa ) , unless congress can “ fix ” the deal .
specifically , he wants the ability to regain sanctions on iran , just as he did earlier this month .
trump has long insisted that sanctions will force iran to negotiate , but that is unlikely to happen .
to advance iran ’ s entry into the negotiating table , more important is to defend its authority and save face , and trump may try to exacerbate tensions as long as it does not provoke iran ’ s confrontation .
at that point , engel might be forced to play the game .
engel has said that iran is the “ most dangerous player ” in the middle east , and he is the opponents of the iran nuclear deal .
while engel has supported and opposed the exit deal after the agreement , trump could use his own position on iran to promote a more radical approach or risk “ weakness ” in national security .
but this may ultimately lead to a foreign-policy crisis , not only in a new nuclear deal , but also many excuses that allow each side to blame each other .
the democrats , too , have exposed trump to trump .
in june , engel launched the north korean nuclear baseline act , which would require the white house to report the progress of north korea ’ s nuclear program and provide a “ baseline ” for continued negotiations .
engel has already said he will convene a hearing against the relevant negotiations .
any statement published at the hearing could provide a pretext for north korean leader kim jong-un to provide a pretext for violating the 含糊不清 agreement with trump .
kim could argue that a us president that can not be backed by a hostile congress is not worth trusted .
perhaps the expectation was that a democratic house of representatives and the subsequent dpj attack on russia , in october , withdrew the intermediate-range nuclear forces from the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty .
the treaty was signed by ronald reagan and the soviet secretary general mikhail gorbachev in 1987 to demand that the two sides destroy the ballistic missile and cruise missiles that were launched , and the us withdrawal marks the beginning of a new arms race .
trump has called for increasing defense spending and initiating “ space forces . ”
given the democratic party ’ s interference in russia ’ s meddling in the 2016 us election , trump ’ s relations with russia and trump ’ s talks with russian president vladimir putin in helsinki and russia ’ s president vladimir putin in helsinki are likely to face the prospect of an additional defense spending , in the case of russian adventurism and display .
much of the rest of the world breathed a sigh of relief from the house of representatives , given that trump ’ s aggressive and illiberal “ america first ” approach to the world order is untenable .
but democrats should resist trying to correct trump ’ s misguided impulses .
the house is just the right thing to intervene in foreign policy , but there is no enough force to escape it or adopt a coherent strategy .
the democratic party ’ s best bet is to take trump ’ s lead in global affairs , however unsavory , and actively try to check his actions .
monitoring and 财权 will be their most powerful tool .
eventually , trump will need to secure a house of representatives to obtain grants , sanctions , or trade deals .
if they exercise the right strategy , he will have to deal with them ; but if they do not , they will find that trump still has strong power .
us foreign policy after the midterm elections
new york – only a few people in the medium term voted for a foreign policy based on foreign policy .
given america ’ s global influence , people elsewhere in the world may find it difficult to understand this , but that is a reasonable fact .
after all , most americans are focused on sluggish domestic growth and high unemployment .
the global crisis seems far removed from their daily lives .
most americans have paid off the sacrifices paid by troops in afghanistan and iraq .
while foreign policy has not had a significant impact on the mid-term elections , it does not mean that the outcome will not affect us foreign policy .
the impact is inevitable , but it is in a capricious way .
the situation of the republican party ’ s strength will inevitably affect us-russian relations .
the senate will not be quick or easily approved to ratify the new strategic arms reduction treaty , because members of the legislature are uncertain about how to verify the number of strategic weapons deployed by the us missile-defense system , and thus the opposition to the agreement that the two governments have already reached .
the house estimates are unlikely to remove the many hurdles to russia ’ s accession to the world trade organization , because the anti-democratic behavior of russia ’ s leaders is widespread .
china , too , will feel the influence of a 两党 house of representatives .
in fact , there is already growing pressure to impose trade sanctions on china ’ s refusal to devalue its currency against the dollar .
these pressures will grow , because there is a consensus on china ’ s behavior at home and abroad .
moreover , china will resist any long-term sanctions against cuba .
us president barack obama has a modicum of modicum of progress in normalizing relations between the us and cuba , but the long-term changes need to be approved – but the senate wants to see some fundamental change in cuba before lifting sanctions .
there will be other consequences .
the small probability that the us supports any global proposal to limit or impose taxes on carbon emissions has disappeared .
america ’ s improvement in this area depends on technological innovation and increased energy efficiency .
one can anticipate that the republicans now control the house of representatives will take advantage of their power to question or review the current foreign policy .
depending on how they use ( or abuse ) these powers , the results could be beneficial ( implementation of the necessary oversight or increased transparency in foreign policy ) or harmful ( for example , a hearing that could alienate some officials and policies ) .
in many other areas , continuity will not change .
it is not surprising that the us constitution and political system will be left to the president for most foreign and defense affairs .
congress can declare war on the ground , approving the budget , by appointing most senior officials , and ( for the senate ) , but , in most cases , the president ’ s involvement in foreign policy or beyond the war .
one area of continuity in continuity may be the middle east , where obama will continue to try to foster peace treaties between israelis and palestinians , and forced iran to abandon its development of nuclear weapons ( which republicans have always demanded ) .
but if obama wants to maintain a considerable number of troops in afghanistan after this july , or to maintain a modest military presence after the end of 2011 , he can be backed by a considerable republican support .
but there are many problems with economic policy .
three broad trade treaties ( with south korea , panama , and colombia ) have been postponed for several years , owing to the blocking of unions and democrats .
and republicans have long advocated such bilateral free-trade treaties .
will a new generation of republicans insist on this tradition ?
this is the good opportunity that several bilateral treaties have secured ( partly because the obama administration seems finally to recognize that trade can lead to new jobs ) , but it is more uncertain whether the president has enough authority to negotiate a new global trade agreement .
a more important question is the so-called national security issue : the federal debt deficit .
if the deficit is unable to address ( and mounting debt ) , us foreign aid , intelligence , and defense issues will face enormous pressure – even if republicans are more inclined to maintain some of the same funding ( except for foreign aid ) .
growing debt will force the us to cede itself to international creditors , or to bear the market ’ s sudden volatility .
but overcoming this crisis requires the white house and congress , and both democrats and republicans alike to agree on the need to achieve a fiscal balance .
alas , the midterm elections move far beyond us .
america ’ s global balancing act
russia invaded ukraine and annexed crimea ; the disintegration of iraq and syria ; and china ’ s assertiveness in the south china sea and the east china sea – which now seems to have ended in 2014 .
is it true ?
the post-cold war era was not really a “ time , ” but a gradual transition from a bilateral cold war to a more complex international order that still persists in two superpowers .
simply put , the axis of new order has become increasingly clear – the us and the people ’ s republic of china .
the sino-american competition contains two important facts , making it separate from the cold war : both sides are not entirely ideological ; both recognize that they really need mutual accommodation .
in 2014 , america ’ s “ pivot to asia ” policy was rendered less apparent in ukraine and the middle east crisis .
how does uncertainty in america ’ s asian commitments fuel tension between china and america ’ s asian allies ?
i disagree with the premise of this .
i do think that the us is very well aware that avoiding it is in the interest of both sides .
the recent signs of a recent dialogue between india and japan , and between china and japan , suggest that china also recognizes that it is not in its interests .
the more serious problem contained in “ pivot to asia ” is its actual wording , which implied “ containment ” or “ isolation ” china ’ s military posture .
the chinese have become more aware that we are not deliberately trying to isolate them , but to make matters meaningful for the far east ’ s far east .
xi has used his fight against corruption to consolidate more power than deng did three decades ago .
how can xi ’ s term develop ?
in a sense , china ’ s power is less formal , and its boundaries are more driven by political reality than by constitutional arrangements .
so it is hard to say that xi ’ s power is larger than any chinese leader since deng xiaoping .
he is clearly a person with authority , and no doubt more active than his predecessors on the international stage .
he is also more decisive than several previous predecessors when he strikes against the growing corruption that has become a source of domestic malaise and even to the government .
in this sense , it may be possible to say that his authority is broader than his predecessors , but , in terms of justice , one must also note that the corruption that his predecessor faces has not been as naked and widespread as it was in recent years .
at the same time , the party ’ s growing emphasis on the party ’ s commanding gun , against the military , seems to suggest that there is a concern that the military is becoming more assertive than it is in defending national security responsibilities .
the ccp elite is understandably uncomfortable .
can russian president vladimir putin ’ s regime withstand a prolonged period of low oil prices and western sanctions ?
what will happen if russia ’ s economy continues to decline , and that putin ’ s reward for his political base will have the consequences ?
of course , there is a danger that there may be a new form of western and western direct war , in which putin may choose to gamble on a high point .
but if that is true , we must also assume that , to some extent , he is already unbalanced , from some kind of warfare in the west – a possibility that could always be reversed – into a desperate war .
the outcome is inherently unpredictable , but perhaps a disaster for russians .
but this , in turn , depends on the west ’ s firmness in supporting ukraine ’ s stability .
in the wake of the withdrawal of us troops from afghanistan and iraq , many of the world now believes that the us has reached a “ retreat ” period , as it did in the post-war era .
is the us taking some form of neo-isolationism ?
or is it clear that the us , as it did after the vietnam war , was a brief phenomenon ?
i don ’ t think the us has entered a “ period of retreat . ”
the important fact is that the redistribution of global power has created a situation in which the us is no longer the sole hegemon .
the us must acknowledge the fact that the world is now much more complex .
the spread of conflict in the middle east is more a consequence of the rise of religious sectarianism than because of us intervention .
in these violent conditions , more attention must be devoted to national interests in countries like turkey , iran , saudi arabia , egypt , and israel .
for the same reason , any country ’ s interests must not be the us ’ s total interests .
what will happen to the world in 2015 ?
perhaps russia is a more politically active liberal middle class .
during medvedev ’ s time , this middle class was a more important role in russia ’ s domestic and international policy .
as putin returned to the presidency and adopted his recent adventurism , the liberal middle class was deliberately awakened and stimulated by a nationalistic chauvinism .
but a banner of chauvinism may not be the best way to deal with international problems , especially when it comes to smart and united parts of the west .
russia , which gradually began to be attracted by the west , will also be a russia that ceases to disrupt the international system .
america ’ s enemy at home
new york – beyond unexpected events , there is nothing new about the tsarnaev brothers ( or the “ boston brothers ” ) .
we can tap into the 家庭史 homes of dagestan in war-torn dagestan and again to examine the lethal appeal of islamist radicalism .
but i doubt that it makes sense .
the elder brother , who died with the police , appears to be the typical “ radical loser ” of germany ’ s writer hans 恩岑 .
and it is less likely that the 弟弟 哈尔 , who is receiving treatment for the boston hospital and waiting for the death penalty , is less likely to be involved in their faith than because of a 兄弟 追随者 .
radical losers are the young people who feel that they feel alienated and indifferent .
many confused young people have been left behind , with a strong desire for vengeance to some .
like the 萨姆森 in the temple of gaza , he has pursued a 毁灭 of public violence , giving him as many people as possible .
no small matter can trigger this last madness .
in 拳手 , 拳手 , 拳手 , he lost the chance of winning the championship for not american citizens .
radical islamism offers him ready-made opportunities for dying .
it is interesting to respond to the 反应 bombings of the united states , who killed three people and injured the wounded and injured .
public transport is halted , and companies have closed , and companies are told to stay home .
before the surviving bomber was found , boston has become a ghost town .
if the 迷惑 young young people with fertilizer and 高压锅 bombs are able to do so in the us ’ s major cities , it is not hard to imagine that their example will be a big alternative to radical losers , not to mention radical groups .
the event shows how vulnerable a modern city will be when it loses courage .
the authorities and the exaggerations of most media have become more bizarre , following the difficulty of rejecting a ban on guns and private access to fire and private access to the fire of the 枪支 and 错乱 .
the americans , it seems , can tolerate a 中小学生 killing of 中小学生 people from weapons of 武器 weapons that have been sold on the open market , but collectively in the killing of the so-called “ terrorists . ”
that may be a reaction to people .
the brutality of the basque secessionists is so inadequate that the islamist extremists killed cattle ’ s atrocities in madrid in 2004 ; and when suicide bombers were killed in london the following year , the british were relatively calm in the 1970s when suicide bombers were killed .
like the spanish and spanish , the british are no stranger .
despite the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , americans were not a common place for violence .
not so , like the soldiers in the age of 19 years of age and the united states , where american citizens are known for the war , the republican senators , like john mccain , called for him to deprive him of legal rights , and as “ enemy combatants . ”
the us political class has always exaggerated fear of foreign enemies .
america ’ s traditional “ immigrant nation ” has traditionally been regarded as a safe place .
evil outside the world should not reach this free land .
when pearl harbor , september 2001 , and foreign attacks in the united states were taken , americans seemed to be in the dock .
another factor may be the need for a common enemy of the people from diverse cultures and traditions .
under the siege of communists or islamists , people feel a sense of belonging .
protecting the country from the dangers of imaginary outsiders and their domestic agents can generate strong cohesion .
such solidarity is not just effective , but it must be .
but fear of politics also threatens america ’ s own security .
the aim of a political terrorist group that represents “ al qaeda ” is to provoke retaliation and maximize its propaganda .
as a common perpetrator , members of the terrorist organization will not be able to deliver .
but it would help them to gain sympathy , from radical losers and disaffected people , who claim to be fighting the world ’ s most powerful military power .
former president george w. bush once said that terrorism is an expression of hatred of the us .
but when terrorism causes the detainee ’ s atrocities to mount and police the legal rights of the us citizens – or , in case of the case , the crimes of the two young immigrants – the us government has been paralyzed by the us government ’ s perception of freedom far more than any terrorist .
american hegemony or america ’ s primacy ?
cambridge – in modern history , no country has a strong global military power like the united states .
but some analysts now believe that the us is on the verge of losing a global hegemonic power – the following .
this history , though increasingly popular , is misleading .
it is true that it has a navy equal to the size and third of third and third , and the “ 日不落 empire ” covers a quarter of humanity .
but the relative power sources of britain ’ s imperial empire were different .
in the outbreak of world war i , the number of military personnel in britain was fourth only among the great powers , and gdp was fourth and fourth in terms of military spending .
the british empire took advantage of local fighters to rule .
in the 8.6 million british forces in wwi , nearly one-third came from abroad .
this makes it increasingly difficult for the london government to declare war on the entire empire when nationalist sentiment began to rise .
by world war ii , protecting empire became a liability rather than a asset .
the fact that britain ’ s power with germany and russia is close to it makes it even more urgent .
the fact is that the us does not have the colonies that it must manage , so it has greater freedom of maneuver than the uk .
moreover , the us is not threatened by its neighbors and two oceans , which are much easier to protect themselves .
this brings us to another problem with global hegemony : the confusion about what “ hegemony ” really means .
some observers portray hegemony as a synonym for imperialism ; but the us is a clear example of the need for a formal empire .
others define hegemony as a capable set of rules for international institutions ; but the hegemon must have many more influence in relative terms .
still others believe that hegemony means that the most powerful resource resources are under control .
but , accordingly , in the nineteenth century , britain – whose gdp was the world ’ s third-largest ( below ) peak of its gdp – was not supposed to be a hegemon , despite its maritime dominance .
likewise , those who claim that america had hegemony after 1945 failed to note that the soviet union has been checks on us military power for more than four decades .
although the us has unmatched economic power , its room for political and military maneuver was constrained by soviet power .
some analysts refer to the post-1945 period as the us-led hierarchical order , characterized by liberty , with the us providing public goods and establishing a loose multilateral rules and institutions that are also likely to win in weak countries .
they argue that , for many countries , the institutional framework for preserving this institutional framework is rational , even if american power sources decline .
in this sense , the us-led international order has a greater role to play than america ’ s dominant source of power , even though many others argue that the rise of new powers portends the collapse of the order .
but , in the era of so-called american hegemony , there has always been a lot of mixed links to the facts .
it is less a global order than a group of like-minded countries ( mainly in the americas and western europe , less than half of the world ’ s ) .
its impact on non-member countries – including china , india , indonesia , and the soviet bloc – is not always positive .
as a result , america ’ s position in the world should be called a “ 半 . ”
of course , the us did maintain economic dominance after 1945 : world war ii , which led many countries to become melting , meant that the us contributed nearly half of global gdp .
but , from a political or military perspective , the world is bipolar , and the soviet union checks and balances .
in fact , the us was often unable to defend its interests in the interim : the soviet union had nuclear weapons ; the communist party established the regime in china , cuba , and vietnam ; the war ended ; the hungarian and czechoslovakia insurgents were crushed .
against this background , it may be more accurate to describe a country ’ s disproportionate share of power in three major power areas : military , economic , and soft power .
the question now is whether the era of american primacy is coming to an end .
the rise of transnational forces and non-state actors – not to mention emerging powers like china – implies significant changes in the global situation .
but there is still reason to believe that , at least in the first half of this century , the us will retain its dominant power resources and continues to play a central role in the global balance of power .
in short , while the era of american dominance is not over , it is bound to change important .
whether these changes will increase global security and prosperity remains to be seen .
i tell my friends outside the us
cambridge – i frequently travel abroad , and my foreign friends ask each other with varying degrees of confusion : what happened to your country ?
here ’ s my answer .
first , don ’ t misinterpret the 2016 election .
contrary to what some commentary claims , the us political system has not been eliminated by a wave of populism .
to be sure , we have a long history of rebelling against elites .
it is donald trump ’ s use of the tradition of andrew jackson and william wallace and george wallace in the nineteenth century and , as george wallace and george wallace did in the twentieth century .
and trump lost nearly three million votes .
he won the election by appealing to populist anger in three rust belt states , michigan , pennsylvania , and wisconsin – three states that previously had the democratic base .
if those states had ten million votes , then trump will lose the electoral college and the presidency .
that is , trump ’ s victory reflects the real problem of growing social and regional inequality in the us .
万斯 , 万斯 ’ s recent bestseller , describes the huge difference between california and 阿巴拉契亚 .
research by princeton university economist anne casper and angus deaton shows that low-income whites who do not have a college degree are worse than african-americans , and african-americans have historically experienced the least unequal inequality in history .
in 1999 , white death rates without a college degree were around 30 % lower than in african-americans ; by 2015 , the data became 30 % .
moreover , manufacturing jobs , which were once a major source of working-class whites , have fallen sharply in the past generation , with only 12 % of the total workforce .
these previous democratic voters were attracted by trump ’ s commitment to change and 创造 manufacturing jobs .
ironically , trump ’ s efforts to repeal president barack obama ’ s health-care bill will exacerbate their lives .
the second thing i tell foreign friends is not to underestimate trump ’ s communication skills .
many are offended by his tweet storms and his twitter storms .
but trump is a veteran of television reality-tv , and he knows that a monopoly on a monopoly is essential to success , and that it can be done by extreme rhetoric , rather than caution .
twitter helps him to set the agenda and distract his critics .
the content that offends the media and academics does not matter for his supporters .
but , as he begins to move from campaigning to a 自我中心 campaign , twitter has also played a two-edged sword that prevents the needed allies .
third , i tell my friends not to count on trump ’ s performance .
normally , a president who loses the popular vote will turn to the political center to attract more supporters .
trump , by contrast , has claimed that he won the popular vote , and , as he really did , he would have called for a base of voters .
while trump has energetically nominated the ranks of the centrist , secretary of state , secretary of state , and department of homeland security , he appoints republican extremists to the environmental protection agency and the ministry of health and public services .
the white house staff , which he has arranged for pragmatism , also had ideologues , and he can deal with both .
fourth , one should not underestimate american institutions .
sometimes my friend says that it is like the lower sky , asking whether trump is as dangerous a narcissist as mussolini .
i tell them not to panic .
despite all the problems the us has , it was not italy in 1922 .
our national political elites are often polarized ; but america ’ s founders were the same .
when it comes to designing the us constitution , the founders ’ goal was not to ensure a harmonious government , but to regulate the regime ’ s entire system of checks and balances and increase the exercise of power .
some joke that the founders created a political system that prevents george gyanendra – or any dictator – from taking office .
they would prefer to achieve liberty at the cost of inefficiency .
in the early days of trump ’ s presidency , we can not determine what might happen after a major terrorist attack .
but , so far , the courts , congress , and state governments have been constrained and balanced by madison ’ s intent .
the permanent civil servants of the executive branch have also played a stabilizing role .
finally , my friend asked what this means for us foreign policy and the us-led liberal international order .
frankly , i don ’ t know , but i worry less about china ’ s rise than that of trump .
while us leaders , including obama , have been complaining about free riders , the us has played a leading role in providing key global public services such as safe , stable international reserve currencies , relatively open markets , and global public resources .
despite problems in the us-led international order , the world has prospered , and poverty is gradually reduced .
but we can not be sure that the current system will continue .
the us needs to work with china , europe , japan , and others to manage transnational issues .
during the 2016 campaign , trump was the first major party candidate to question the us alliance system in seven decades .
since taking office in january , statements from trump and his appointees suggest that this suspicion may not be eliminated .
after all , america ’ s hard and soft power is largely sixty allies in the us ( and only a few ) .
but it is much more uncertain whether to help manage the multilateral institutions of the world economy and global people .
trump ’ s budget director speaks to hard power budgets , cutting funds from the state department and the un system .
other officials advocate replacing multilateral trade deals with “ fair and balanced ” bilateral arrangements .
and trump has refused to acknowledge obama ’ s efforts to address climate change .
i told my friends that i hope to give them to them .
but i did not .
denver – if you focus on the debate about the united states ’ news media , the “ america first ” may seem to be america ’ s interventionism : it is frequently rumored that it is frequently coming to war with the united states and its exceptional military power .
but interventionism is different from internationalism .
it is impossible to confuse the quick use of force with deliberate use of force and thoughtful engagement of the world and its problems .
in the us “ 摆平 ” transactional worldview , international disputes are often viewed as military challenges to political issues .
in fact , the opposite is often the opposite , which is why the world ’ s most complex conflict has rarely been solved by intervention .
geopolitical conflict has a long and ugly history , and violence is often not an intrinsic feature , but a symptom of its difficulty .
they are often linked to identity , and they claim that ownership of a land with a “ national ” ” is common .
the basis for political membership is often ethnic , not civic , that is contrary to americans ’ understanding of state .
at the same time , some contemporary problems may be the product of flawed arrangements for decades or centuries .
two examples of this can be easily thought of the sykes-picot agreement of 1916 between france and france in 1916 , and the 1919 treaty of versailles , which had divided borders in the balkans .
in both cases , the creation of a new state might seem like a straightforward solution , but doing so would only lead to more wars .
for the us , international conflicts are often the opportunity to demonstrate “ toughness ” and “ resolve . ”
america ’ s airstrikes in bosnia were intended to promote a political process that has been backed by the eu and russia .
air strikes are the last resort , to punish those who do not support the peace process .
so , for many american pundits and politicians , the lesson from bosnia is simply that the bad guys should be bombed sooner rather than later .
few opportunity to study the region ’ s complex history in order to distinguish between smart and sensible boundaries across each entity .
if they do , they may end up focusing more on protecting external borders and nurturing a constitutional structure that enables new states to integrate into the european map .
the same is true of kosovo , where history is more complex than many are willing to explore .
a diplomatic approach that seeks to achieve kosovo ’ s sovereignty while respecting serbs ’ emotional attachment to serbs is derided .
this means that military means are the primary – and not last – option to ensure kosovo ’ s independence .
many european countries , to be sure , oppose creating an independent state and calling for a multilateral diplomacy before discussing any air strikes .
interventionism in the century after the turn of the century continues to exist , and it is on the broader stage .
after the attacks on september 11 , 2001 , the us led the invasion and then occupied afghanistan to root out al-qaeda .
but the us lost its patience after 17 years of military deployments , and many accepted us president donald trump ’ s “ america first ” isolationism .
in iraq , with a much weaker connection with terrorism , the us spends enormous military effort to achieve confusing and 飘摇不定 goals , and it seems that they are not clearly expressed .
american interventionism tends to be accompanied by criticism of friends and allies , accusing them of weak and vacillating when confronted with global challenges such as russian president vladimir putin or china ’ s growing assertiveness in the south china sea .
when the problems arise in afghanistan and iraq , the us blames these countries ’ political leaders , denouncing their corruption and human rights .
europeans , too , are decried , not least because of incompetence , but also because they enjoy their lives without taking proper responsibility .
given that these narratives are deeply etched into the american public ’ s consciousness , it is no wonder that trump ’ s dystopian vision will overwhelm internationalism , because the latter has become an endless use of force and a mockery of allies .
but those who claim to support it can accelerate its revival by acting according to its original meaning .
traditional internationalists show respect for the views of others , and demonstrate – and even support – multilateral structures .
what internationalism needs now is america ’ s commitment to engage in cooperation , even when other governments need more time to obtain a mandate from their respective systems .
after all , america ’ s international leadership must be embedded in america ’ s values and broadly adhere to the 原则 principles behind liberal democracy .
in other words , the us must lead the way .
and its recent dysfunction – particularly on refugees – has undermined the influence that its power ultimately rests .
renewing america ’ s leadership
madrid – december is always an opportunity to stop thinking and what future will be .
this year , one conclusion of this year ’ s thinking is that the us remains the centerpiece of the liberal world order , a position that is strong .
another is that the us needs to do more to meet its international standing .
over the years , doubts about whether the us can maintain global leadership have been raging .
but , while a widely focused multipolar world order may be doomed , the reality is that , for now , efforts to address global challenges – from climate change to conflict in the middle east – require us engagement .
unfortunately , the narrative of america ’ s decline has been a major market in recent years , and even us officials seem to have started believing that it is , pushing for weak piecemeal policies ( or even inaction ) .
president barack obama ’ s restrained foreign-policy approach is fueling , rather than containing , global instability .
the reasons for a strong act are disputed .
some blame obama for fear of repeating the past ; others blame the hostile congress .
indeed , perhaps both are working .
obama would rather act prudently – even when people call for decisive action – rather than urge more damage .
but the negative impact of a highly partisan us congress on the objective of creating obstacles can not be underestimated .
congress , for example , has blocked the international monetary fund ’ s governance reforms in 2010 , which could damage the legitimacy and importance of the bretton woods institutions .
likewise , the us congress has refused to ratify the united nations convention on the law of the sea , undermining america ’ s credibility and making it difficult to claim international law in china ’ s increasingly assertive south china sea .
moreover , the us congress has opposed the adoption of a legally binding climate commitment , thereby weakening the global climate agreement reached this month in paris , leaving the uncertainty and implementation of compliance and implementation .
in recent years , stalemate has become synonymous with american politics .
that is why next year ’ s presidential election is crucial .
this election offers a fresh opportunity for the policy action that the world needs , and the policy action that the world needs .
the key is engagement – the engagement of the us government , the us government and the public , and the participation of the us and the rest of the world .
first , in order to avoid the kind of obstruction that has prevailed over the last eight years , the next us president must engage directly and actively in congress .
and , in fact , the obama administration ’ s two recent victories – through the so-called mandate for trade promotion ( fast-track negotiation mandate to complete the trans-pacific partnership ) and a redefinition of smaller but crucial 进出口银行 – is an effort to engage in widespread engagement , education , and , yes , to induce legislators to result .
the iran nuclear deal is one of obama ’ s signature achievements , including a similar effort to participate in congress , and obama ’ s administration has clung to capitol hill , offering a creative approach that allows legislators to express their displeasure with the agreement without blocking progress .
the next us president must also improve engagement with citizens , the widespread disaffection of american citizens – or , in turn , to make it a weak foreign policy .
like many europeans today , most americans do not seem to understand – and ignore – the collapse of the liberal world order that would have dire consequences for all .
this is not always the case .
immediately after world war ii , memories of war , together with the continuing threats posed by the soviet union , enabled everyone to understand the importance of building and maintaining the liberal world order .
today , though the need for such a order is as large as it was then , this argument is less complete or powerful .
discussion of rules and institutions is directed toward one another .
the responsibility of political leaders – especially the president – is to find how to make the most important things seem urgent .
only this approach can ensure that the next us president enjoys the public mandate to engage effectively with other world leaders .
make no mistake : this engagement is indispensable .
the us must play a central role in addressing the global challenges , whether ending syria ’ s civil war or fulfilling the promise of the paris climate agreement .
only real cooperation can make real progress .
in the second half of the twentieth century , the us showed that it would help to ensure broad stability and prosperity .
in the twenty-first century , the us showed the disastrous consequences of a lack of leadership .
blaming the game will not solve the problem .
the next us administration will be able to ensure that the next few years will be better than the last few years – both at home and abroad – for a truly deep and sustainable cooperation .
american pie in the sky
new york – the risk of a disorderly crisis in the eurozone has been recognized , but optimism about the us remains optimistic .
in the last three years , the consensus has been that the us economy is about to achieve a robust self-sustaining recovery , and will return to the growth phase of potential growth .
this is wrong , because the painful deleveraging process – reflected in excessive private-sector debt and post-crisis transfers to the public sector – implies that , even in the best of times , recovery will be less than a trend in the years ahead .
even in this year , there is no consensus on the horizon , expecting annual gdp growth to recover – more than 3 % .
but the growth rate of the first half of the year is , to be sure , worth almost 1.5 % , and even less than 1.7 % in 2011 .
and now , in the aftermath of the first half of 2012 , many were repeating the old fairytale – a decline in oil prices , increased automobile sales , recovery in house prices , the revival of us manufacturing , all of which will boost economic growth in the second half of the year – above the potential for growth in 2013 .
the reality is that the opposite is true : a variety of reasons suggest that growth will slow in the second half of 2012 , and to close to stall 2013 .
first , the growth rate of the second quarter has slowed slightly in the second quarter of the year , owing to job creation – an average of 70,000 jobs every month – in rapid weakening .
second , expectations of a “ fiscal cliff ” – automatic tax increases in the end of this year – will drag back spending and growth in the second half of 2012 .
moreover , the uncertainty about how to run into the white house in 2013 , the tax rate , and spending levels , and whether the debt ceiling will trigger another government shutdown , will not be able to implement another downgrade of the 下调 fiscal consolidation that will lead to sovereign ratings and political gridlock .
in this context , most businesses and consumers will be cautious about spending – waiting for the value of the choice – thereby further weakening the economy .
third , the fiscal cliff will drag down a 4.5 % -of-gdp drag on gdp in 2013 , if tax cuts and transfers expire and draconian spending cuts are triggered .
of course , a drag on tax increases would be reduced substantially if tax increases were modest .
fourth , private consumption growth in the last few quarters does not reflect real wage growth ( indeed , real wages ) .
by contrast , disposable income growth ( and the consumption growth that it brings ) last year , because increased tax cuts are $ 1.4 trillion and extended transfers , this means that public debt has increased by $ 1.4 trillion .
the united states , unlike the eurozone and the united kingdom , has taken a double-dip recession because of a forward-looking fiscal contraction , and the us is in the public sector by increasing leverage by increasing leverage in the public sector , in other words , in the future .
in 2013 , as transfers stopped , however slowly , and some tax cuts expire , disposable income and consumption growth will fall .
the us will face not only the direct consequences of fiscal drag , but also its indirect impact on private spending .
fifth , four external factors will further impede growth in the us : the worsening of the eurozone crisis , a hard landing in china , a cyclical factor , and structural causes ( as the growth of the industrial model in the advanced countries has weakened ) , and the sharp decline in oil prices in 2013 ( owing to the failure to push iran to abandon its nuclear program ) .
policy responses are extremely limited to prevent the us economy from sliding toward a stall : even if fiscal drag is small , the dollar may be appreciating by the euro crisis and a return to global risk-off behavior .
the fed will be more quantitative easing this year , but it will not work : long-term interest rates are already low , further depressing their spending .
indeed , credit channels have been frozen , and currency flows have been depleted , with banks hoarding the money in the form of excess reserves .
moreover , the dollar is unlikely to depreciate in the face of other countries ’ qe .
likewise , the gravity of weak growth will most likely suppress the price of stock prices by further quantitative easing , especially given that today ’ s equity valuations are not as low as they were in 2009 and 2010 .
indeed , growth in earnings and profits is losing steam , as weak demand affects the impact of operating income and profitability .
in fact , the major correction in stock prices could push the us economy into a severe recession in 2013 .
and if the us ( remains the world ’ s largest economy ) once again , the rest of the world – immunity from europe ’ s weakness and the slowdown in emerging countries – would have to be pneumonia .
the american political tragedy
berlin – nearly eight months after us president donald trump took office , this period has been accompanied by a series of disturbing political developments .
but it is not entirely trump .
his presidency was just the latest act of political tragedy .
from a foreign-policy perspective , the problem began in the 1990s , when the us squandered the post-cold war peace dividend .
in terms of domestic policy , failure began earlier : from ronald reagan in the 1980 ’ s to obamacare , major policies always promise too much , too little , and too little to address .
of course , us politicians do not lack lofty rhetoric – from ronald reagan ’ s “ morning ” campaign to barack obama ’ s “ yes , ” and , to trump ’ s “ america first ” credo , trump ’ s “ america first ” credo .
and , beginning with john f. kennedy , successive us presidents have called the us a “ city of a hill ” – a model for the rest of the world .
but when the last time the us delivers a policy that could serve as a model for other countries , it is hard to see how .
since the 1960 ’ s , the country has no pro-active , forward-looking government .
since the 1990 ’ s , it has also failed to invest enough in human capital to meet the evolving skills requirements of rapid economic change ; without effective education , environmental , and labor-market reforms , there is no new infrastructure program or a future-oriented infrastructure program .
the list goes on .
the reason is simple : the americans have long been suspicious of “ big government , ” which has morphed into a political 自恨 , whether by policymakers or citizens , who believe that the government is the best .
and , as the us government withdrew from society , the us has retreated from the rest of the world .
these trends have culminated in trump ’ s presidency , with the most popular policy concentrated in “ destroyed ” rather than “ building . ”
america ’ s centered on foreign policy is focused not on america ’ s role in the world , but on weakening that role .
from the affordable care act ( obamacare ) to the deferred policy of returning adolescents ( daca ) policy , trump wants to reverse past policies without any replacement .
so far , conservatives have failed to read trump ’ s intentions correctly .
in july , robert w. w. robert w. bush wrote that trump “ has not scored any score on major legislative victories – and no significant political momentum . ”
but the truth is that trump ’ s agenda is full of momentum ; it is only its focus on destroying obama ’ s legacy .
according to richard 福尔克 , the international law expert , trump ’ s “ demagogy ” achievements have taken this approach , and it “ makes its followers blind to genuine 利益 interests , confusing their true social enemies . ”
trump ’ s refusal to “ discuss rational discussion , including the comment on truth and evidence , ” is accompanied by unlimited “ capacity to manipulate popular opinion , take advantage of racism and class hatred . ”
the result of trump ’ s approach is that america ’ s current problems are worsening , and major opportunities are squandered .
but what can stop demons already released ?
even if these devils are stopped , can the damage they have done to the damage they already have ?
when trump has not explicitly condemned the white supremacy of white supremacist in charlottesville , virginia , he was “ shelled ” in august , when white supremacists held a “ joint right ” protests in august , eventually leading to a murder .
but trump ’ s disruptive momentum has not been weakened : a few weeks later , trump announced that he plans to eliminate DACA .
apart from lamenting a great political culture and institutions , what can be done ?
one obvious option – the democratic party , too – is to reject trump and his administration ’ s position .
but this is likely to perpetuate the stalemate that brought the us to this point .
another option – which , at first glance , is implausible – is to accept the trump administration .
the outcome is likely to be the result of deteriorating domestic problems and weakened checks and balances .
but it is also possible that checks and balances can maintain the next election , allowing the us to rebuild , and new political parties are emerging .
one hopes that the result will be a much-needed political realignment – indeed , the political renaissance .
to be sure , such changes take time , and political parties may not be so long – depending on how long trump will take office .
the republicans may have been politically handicapped for years , because they will be forced to make a bad deal for political power .
democrats , for their part , face a broad leadership vacuum and lack of political vision , because they now have a fear of “ big bang ” label .
for now , there is no third party or a candidate to offer plausible alternatives .
nonetheless , there are encouraging signs that some republicans and democrats are moving beyond partisan shackles .
more people must join them , recognizing that the restructuring of existing parties may be the only way to break the political gridlock in the united states and fundamentally reverse the dangerous trend in decades of domestic performance .
the next act of american drama – midterm congressional elections in 2018 – could mark a marked point , while the 2020 presidential campaign will be accompanied by an escalation in the number of people who have already moved in the underground .
to rewrite the plot before this scenario was realized , rewriting the script would require a reshuffling of american politics , which , in turn , has been revived by poet 西莫斯 希尼 , “ hope and history . ”
american power in the twenty-first century
cambridge – the united states government ’ s national intelligence council predicts that america ’ s advantage in 2025 will “ drastically weaken , ” and the key area in which the us has maintained its strength – military power – will be less important in the world in which it will compete .
the leader of the canadian opposition freedom party , michael ignatieff , believes that america ’ s power is over .
how can we know whether these predictions are correct ?
one should beware of misleading metaphors of a full-blown recession .
countries , after all , are not the individual individuals who can predict their lives .
for example , when the united kingdom lost its americas in the late eighteenth century , 勒斯 沃波尔 lamented that britain had become “ like denmark or 撒丁岛 . ”
but he failed to predict that the industrial revolution will make britain more secure in the coming century .
the roman empire lasted three centuries after the apogee of the roman empire .
even in the end , rome did not succumb to another country , but the road to death after being ravaged by a brutal tribe .
indeed , while china , india , or brazil will outperform america ’ s predictions over the next decade , a shift to traditional power shifts among major powers may be less than the rise of modern 蛮族 ( non-state actors ) .
in a world where information is based on information , the threat of decentralization may be greater than the transfer of power .
what , then , will wield power in the global information age ?
which resources can bring power ?
in the sixteenth century , the control of colonies and gold bars gave spain a competitive edge , in the seventeenth-century netherlands from trade and finance , in eighteenth-century france and france in the eighteenth century , and nineteenth-century british power came from its unique industrial status and navy .
conventional wisdom has always assumed that the army ’ s largest country will win , but it may be a state that is 最会 in the information age ( or state ) .
today , there is no clear way to measure the balance of power , much less how to develop successful survival strategies .
in his inaugural address in 2009 , president barack obama proposed “ our power from prudent use of power ; our security from the cause of justice , the power of models , and humility and restraint . ”
soon after , secretary of state hillary clinton said that “ america alone can not solve the most pressing problems , without america ’ s involvement in the world . ”
we must take advantage of what we call ‘ smart power , using all tools that can be used for us .
smart power means combining hard power and the soft power of attraction .
power always depends on the environment .
the children who play in the game are likely to become a laggard .
in the middle of the twentieth century , joseph stalin aptly asked the division of divisions , and four decades later , the pope remained intact , while stalin ’ s empire had collapsed .
in today ’ s world , as the environment differs , the distribution of power is changing .
the distribution of power resembles a three-dimensional chess game .
in the game of the game , military power will remain unipolar , and the us is likely to remain the only superpower for some time .
in the middle of the game , however , economic power has remained hierarchical for more than a decade , with the us , europe , japan , and the four major powers , and the importance of others growing .
the bottom chessboard is the realm of cross-border transactions that governments can not control .
participating non-state actors like electronic remittances are more than a majority of bankers in most countries , and the terrorists or threats of cyber security are in the other extreme .
it also includes new challenges like pandemics and climate change .
even after the financial crisis , the dizzying pace of technological development may continue to drive globalization and transnational challenges .
even the strongest countries have an increasing array of problems to control the problem of american power in the twenty-first century .
while the us has accomplished its achievements militarily , there are many military areas that can not be covered .
in the wake of the information revolution and the impact of globalization , the way the world ’ s political change has changed is to impede america ’ s unilateral pursuit of all international goals .
for example , international financial stability is vital to america ’ s prosperity , but the us needs other countries ’ cooperation to ensure international financial stability .
global climate change will also affect americans ’ quality of life , but the us can not rely on its own power to manage global climate .
in a world where borders are porous to drugs , infectious diseases , and terrorism , the us must help establish a league of nations and institutions to confront the challenges and threats that shared it .
in this sense , power has become a positive game .
it is not enough to consider the terms of the power of others , and we must consider the power of our goals .
on many transnational issues , empowering others can help to achieve their own goals .
in this world , networks and linkages have become important sources of relative power .
the problem facing america ’ s power in the twenty-first century is not a gradual decline , but rather a recognition that even the most powerful countries can not achieve their own goals .
abusing churchill
new york – from the 1960s , the bust of winston churchill ’ s bust in the white house has been the target of a right-wing canard in washington .
it is rumored that president barack obama returned the bust to the british embassy when he entered the white house , pointing to his hatred of britain .
indeed , obama did not have something to do .
the bust still hangs in the presidential residence , as usual , just as he did during george w. bush ’ s administration when he had to repair a small period .
but obama ’ s removal of the bust may be a “ pretty good thing . ”
the cult of churchill ’ s admiration for the us is no better .
too many us presidents are nostalgic for churchill ’ s true victory .
bush has a copy of churchill ’ s bust in the oval office , which tony blair sent .
he likes to call himself a “ war president , ” “ decider , ” and “ great leader , ” as churchill did .
he likes battle dress .
he has also thrown his country into a very foolish war .
donald trump ’ s british crony , nigel farage , the leader of the former uk independence party , has suggested that trump put the bust back in the oval office .
trump wants to be a good idea .
trump has no chance of churchill .
if anything , he has a coherent position on what to do , and that he is hostile to what churchill advocated .
his “ america first ” posture is a pale indifference to western allies , with the contrast with churchill and franklin roosevelt ’ s efforts to fend off the third reich in hitler .
the atlantic charter includes everything trump has opposed : reducing trade barriers , economic cooperation , and advancing social welfare .
after defeating hitler , churchill became a proponent of europe ’ s alliance , even if he was ambivalent about the role of britain in the future .
farage ’ s campaign in advocating brexit was often directed toward churchill ’ s own wartime rhetoric , which was the best moment for britain to revolt against tyranny , the best time to defend freedom .
the “ special relationship ” between the us and the united kingdom during world war ii has never been as important as churchill and others were willing to believe .
the us , as the dominant power of post-war power , pursued its own interests , whatever the british like it or not .
the pride of britain alone against nazi germany , and the 虚荣 of its special partner , halted britain ’ s commitment to becoming a major force within the eu .
american leaders sometimes emphasize this particular relationship , to pander to a visiting british prime minister or put the uk on the side of a suspicious military operation .
some say that there is a new lease on relations between trump and brexit .
the united kingdom , obama ’ s warning that the exit from the eu should be in the last , but the house speaker paul ryan recently said that the us should be quick to enter a new deal with the united kingdom to highlight “ solidarity ” with the “ indispensable ally . ”
the special 关照 of the united kingdom ’ s special war on brexit – trump ’ s unusual call to call the “ brexit mr 先生 ” – does suggest the unity of the two countries with their own economic nationalism .
that is the path churchill and roosevelt will surely avoid ; after all , economic nationalism is one of the reasons why europeans have almost destroyed the continent .
of course , trump ’ s love of brexit may be just a matter of words , and the great “ 影帝 ” is good at all .
it is hard to imagine that the united states would support the uk ’ s greater expense for the rest of europe , or even to undermine its economic interests .
but words matter , and churchill knew it .
trump and his supporters , as well as the rhetoric of the brexiteers , are exactly the opposite of the spirit of the atlantic charter .
about the 味道 of international bankers and other “ citizens , ” “ true ” ( farage , “ true ” ) , “ true ” and “ true ” ( farage ) , and “ decent ” ( farage ) , and “ decent ” ( nigel may ’ s words ) are the 味道 of anti-semitism in europe in the 1930s .
churchill ’ s response to trump and the far-right russian and putin ’ s russia will be easy to imagine .
none of this means that churchill is always right , much less a figure that is always worth emulating .
he was right to raise british morale in 1940 , when morale was almost the only british partner .
but in a less dangerous time , he is not a good example of politicians .
his view of colonial rule was no longer tenable , and his war was a racist 老古董 .
his romantic vision of the moral superiority of the english-speaking peoples is in his time , and it is a ridiculous absurdity today .
but churchill was neither petty nor provincial .
his vision , at least in the western world , may be romantic , but it also has a certain nobility .
the next occupant of the white house is not so much .
the suggestion that trump ’ s proposal under farage used churchill ’ s copper face as a totem would make the old man frightening .
america ’ s retreat
los angeles – as barack obama ’ s administration debates the speed and consequences of withdrawal from iraq from iraq , the strategic implications of the us in the final decades of the twentieth century are helpful .
despite america ’ s extraordinary responsibilities in lebanon , somalia , vietnam , and cambodia , history shows that the withdrawal of such areas would immediately affect america ’ s reputation , but ultimately good for the us .
the us ’ s original enemy was not to focus on consolidating or running power , with domestic failure , as opposed to its neighbors .
finally , america ’ s vital interests prevailed .
the evidence today suggests that , when the us leaves mesopotamia , the same pattern will be repeated when the united states decides to leave mesopotamia .
in the four withdrawals , the united states intervened in lebanon from 1982 to 1984 to justify intervention in iraq today .
the battle between lebanon and spain , which began in 1975 , tore lebanon into a more complex bloc than today ’ s iraq .
the us and its western allies intervened in the conflict , with the goal of establishing a military buffer between the plo and the israeli army in the israeli army , thereby facilitating both sides .
the slaughter in palestinian refugee camps prompted a new task , in which president ronald reagan was “ a strong central government ” in lebanon .
but the result is that the us military also became a target , in 1983 , when a navy was killed by the bombing of 241 soldiers .
two days later , the same suicide bombing killed 58 french soldiers .
in february 1984 , faced with a dilemma , ronald h.w , reagan ’ s president , agreed to withdraw from lebanon .
but the withdrawal of western troops did not end the war .
civil war lasted six years later , and then tough political consequences : syrian involvement and ( 20 years later ) , the lebanese decided to have its own destiny , and the us imposed its own fate .
in 1992 , the alarm about somalia ’ s political collapse led to another civil war in the united states to save a country .
america ’ s humanitarian mission in that dark country is committed to the un ’ s failure to do so , to protect somalia ’ s ravaged people and provide food .
the united states , for its part , has been able to maintain a kidney for a dinner , and was able to maintain a peace .
but the 不佳 of us troops in the united nations force , which commanded chaos , and the result , were attacked when the remaining us forces tried to justice the somali warlord responsible for the death of the country ’ s peacekeeping forces .
the carnage after the us military was set in the way of the american public , which forces us troops and un forces to withdraw .
riots in the aftermath of the military withdrawal have increased , and us troops outside the us were monitored and intercepted by jihadist jihadists attempting to enter somalia , and kenya and ethiopia prevent unrest from crossing the region .
in 2006 , the somali capital union was occupied by the islamic courts , and it was feared that a jihadist state would emerge .
but somalia quickly demonstrated that there are two ways of trouble .
under ethiopia ’ s intervention , islamists found themselves left out of power .
today , somalia remains a dysfunctional state , with rival tribes , jihadists , and a transitional government supported by ethiopia .
the us , out of the quagmire , is applying limited influence only out of distance .
when lebanon and somalia remain intact , there is no progress in vietnam and southeast asia ’ s own regional and domestic factors , as well as domestic and domestic factors that have moderated the consequences of the us withdrawal today .
but what the us saw in the 1960 ’ s , when the ghosts of munich hovered in the 1960 ’ s and 1960 ’ s , was very different .
as george w. bush ’ s defense of the iraq war has done , us president lyndon b. johnson predicted that the failure in vietnam “ will be restored in a country and then again . ”
what johnson had not predicted was some domestic and regional constraints that would prevent the dominos from falling in the way that he predicted .
despite the entire vietnam war , the us bombed cambodia ’ s brutal harbor in cambodia , without a stomach for action .
or , within congressional restraints , the nixon administration sought to support cambodia ’ s military junta .
instead of slipping from saigon after the us withdrew from saigon in 1975 , the 战争 war broke vietnam and cambodia .
then this led to china ’ s unsuccessful intervention .
the withdrawal of all of these troops from the international recognition of recognized borders showed that the region ’ s dominant power was the power of nationalists , not communists .
no us withdrawal would have consequences .
but , as the us bears its reputation worldwide , it would be illusory to assume that america ’ s enemies would benefit from it .
america ’ s departure from mesopotamia would also shift the burden of solving the problem to iraqis and other regions of the region , and america ’ s overseas military presence will take place in the right time and location .
history suggests that iraq , like vietnam and lebanon , will find itself able to handle its own affairs .
枪之国
new york – defending us citizens ’ purchases of semi-automatic rifles or carrying concealed weapons is akin to denying humanity any responsibility for climate change .
the point is not a rational argument .
with how many students have the guns or the scientific evidence that the impact of co2 emissions is not important , humans will not change their beliefs about their identity .
accordingly , the more liberals from new york or san francisco , or indeed in houston , advocates of control over the sale of guns to citizens , the harder it would be to dismiss those who have the right to do so .
they often struggle with the fervor of religious believers , as they feel if they were attacked .
collective identity , of course , has its history .
the second amendment to the us constitution , which guarantees the right to hold and carry weapons , was implemented in 1791 , when the revolt against britain ’ s monarchy believed that they had to protect themselves , against repressive countries .
the interpretation of this amendment has been contested terrain , but the original idea was that citizens should be armed .
for many americans , especially in rural areas and in southern states , this collective right is akin to a gifted individual right .
demagogues have made great strides in stoking these people against coastal and urban elites , saying that coastal and urban elites want to strip their rights .
the fear that demagogues use involves not just hunting the 共同爱好 or the concept of self-defense .
it also involves people who think they are .
eliminating their gun rights would be felt in cultural and social “ 废掉 . ”
but if that is the core of many americans ’ identity , it is a contradiction in their country ’ s self-image .
the second amendment is of course a legal concept .
in some ways , the us itself is a legal concept .
as a nation of immigrants , the us is not based on shared ancestry or culture .
it is based on law – a way that would be the only way to unite people from a different cultural background .
so it is not surprising that the us has so many lawyers , and it is no surprise why america is more dependent on the japanese than japan , which relies on custom and tradition .
if anything , the constitution is the bible of this belief .
and that is what conservatives do , including the second amendment .
in classical westerns , the real american hero is a 枪手 枪手 , a 不法之徒 不法之徒 , 热爱 , 热爱 , 热爱 , and a rifle on the shoulders of the horse .
john Wayne was saving the 黎民 in the hands of the black , 无恶不作 , and 妨碍 of the american west .
but who ’ s favorite villains ?
they are bankers , lawyers , businessmen , and rail builders , often representing the interests of powerful figures in the central coast of the east coast .
to be sure , they employ 10,000 men to act as 家兵 , but they come from a world of contracts , treaties , and big government .
the story of most westerns is an idyllic rural idyll , one that found perfect autonomy , and threatened by a state that is governed by synthetic law .
the only law that western heroes respect was written by god and his own conscience , which he has rushed to defend .
the problem with america ’ s myth is that the rural idyll of this perfect individual are the idyll of this kind of perfect individual , not in a country where a highly organized bank , courts , business companies , and legislatures exist .
the second amendment is a sop to this myth , with the trappings of law .
reagan was better able to understand the mythical yearning of the myth that many americans have been better aware of the myth than most presidents .
he famously said , “ the government is not the solution to the problem , but the government is the problem . ”
trump , in a more belligerent and aggressive way , has followed reagan ’ s example .
indeed , he is a true outlaw , with no civility in the government .
in many ways , trump has managed to combine his thugs ’ habits with 黑衣人 – the corporate leaders , bankers , and their political representatives in washington .
trump is a new york 骗子 who can use the bible ’ s fear of 圣经 gun guns .
if the us is torn apart by an escalating cultural war on national identity , trump has the potential to divide the worst features of both sides : the lawlessness of the 侠客 and the 强取豪夺 of the city .
to bridge the dangerous fissures that are tearing down societies , the us must find a president capable of connecting the gap .
alas , no one is better suited than trump .
my apology tour
斯托 , vermont – us president is supposed to be on the side of the us when dealing with other countries .
when obama began his “ apology tour ” in eastern europe , it was ( wrongly ) that it was a bad thing to apologize to foreigners ( if it were true ) .
now , trump is convinced that he does not support his friend , russian president vladimir putin , and the intelligence of his friend , russian president vladimir putin , who believes that putin is on the lookout for him .
but , even though us presidents should not apologize for his country , professors do not .
here ’ s why :
dear world : not all americans focus on foreign affairs .
but the united states , which represents many of the world ’ s most concerned about international affairs , says that we have been fascinated by trump .
one hopes that you still believe that this is not america ’ s best condition ; we want you to remain patient until this historical drama is past ; and we want to join us when the drama finally ends .
many deserve a dedicated apology .
in order to prioritize :
dear australia : let us apologize for trump ’ s phone call with your prime minister on january 28 .
dear britain : when you visit your country this month , trump recklessly undermined the political position of prime minister theresa may .
it is sorry that he is also sorry for the false attack on london mayor sadiq khan .
dear canada : sorry that trump ( wrongly ) invaded the us during the war in 1812 , which burned the white house ; he also claimed that he had not learned to bilateral trade balances ; he and humiliated prime minister justin trudeau in the g7 last month .
dear central america : in some desperate refugee families , we have barely noticed you before you had gone to our borders , because we have separated young children from their families , and both .
how can we erase this stain ?
we can help you develop , if we try , and the costs are far lower than they are in afghanistan and iraq .
dear china : we have given us a apology for 用纸 ( us treasury bonds ) in exchange for our intricate merchandise .
this is unfair .
on the other hand , your current-account surplus peaked in 2007 , accounting for 10 % of gdp , and now accounts for just 1.3 % of gdp .
so you now have real goods and services to you .
dear estonia , latvia , and lithuania : trump ’ s wavering on nato ’ s attitude toward supporting nato causes you to worry that the us may not respect the treaty commitments that you have shared .
but we will not .
dear eu : sorry that trump is the enemy , and says he will applaud the forces of unraveling you .
sorry for trump ’ s steel and aluminum tariffs .
oh , it is sorry that all refugees , because we have shaken the middle east from you .
dear france : your president , emmanuel macron , has made a great deal of effort , both to trump and to principle principle .
it is sorry that this did not move him , especially if he did so , with trump ignoring european pleas , and then reneged on the 2015 iran nuclear deal .
dear germany : sorry that trump has repeatedly attacked chancellor angela merkel .
dear iran : sorry that trump has withdrawn the united states from a comprehensive plan of action ( nuclear agreement ) , and now is preparing to reintroduce sanctions , even though you have confirmed compliance with the agreement ’ s provisions .
usually we don ’ t renege .
dear ireland : it is sorry that trump apparently believes that you are part of the uk , and you like him .
we know you are not , and don ’ t like him .
dear japan : prime minister shinzo abe and many foreign leaders , like many foreign leaders , have learned that only when trump and you stand together is appealing to him .
indeed , japan is the only major us ally that has not received a temporary exemption from 25 % steel steel .
moreover , it is sorry that trump is clearly indifferent to north korea ’ s ability to attack you ( and south korea ) .
dear mexico : what can i say ?
we know that the “ criminals ” and “ rapists ” are far less common among mexicans in mexico and other international migrants .
we know that you do not pay for a border wall .
dear philippines , russia , turkey , egypt , and other countries : we understand that it is historic to take a strong leader who claims to lead the country right .
but your “ strongmen ” have not helped your country in the long run , sorry that trump ’ s contempt for the rule of law fueled their economic mismanagement and human-rights abuses .
dear south korea : sorry that trump ’ s eagerness to confront kim last year , led to a devastating war on the korean peninsula .
president moon jae-in ’ s containment of the risk of conflict should be secured by the nobel peace prize .
in the wake of the summit with kim in june , trump announced his suspension of joint military exercises without negotiating with you , and that no return would be so bad .
dear sweden : sorry that trump , on february 19 , 2017 , fabricated a terrorist attack on “ 昨晚 in sweden . ”
dear ukraine : trump ’ s historical memory seems unlikely to exceed the moment of russian aggression in 2014 .
or he has the long memory of memory , with many ukrainians in charge of russian language .
sorry for this is that trump ’ s campaign manager , paul manafort , now appears to be in the pro-russian side .
dear venezuela : it is regrettable that trump uses his threat to prolong the life of your awful government by threatening invasion and giving leaders a scapegoat for humanitarian disaster .
i also apologize for a country that apologies for this apology .
trump ’ s demolition of the rules-based and factual , pro-trade world order has suffered losses .
consider international conferences and organizations .
the real us will return .
trump ’ s deplorables
new york – hillary clinton , the democratic party of the democratic party of the democratic party of the united states , recently called the support of her opponent , donald trump , “ a group of deplorables . ”
the wording was 不得体 and elegant , and she apologized for her remark .
but she was right .
trump has attracted many supporters , and some of their ideas are deplorable , such as ethnic ideas .
the problem is that many of these deplorable voters are relatively uneducated , making clinton ’ s assessment seem 势利 .
alas , the us has too many relatively uneducated people .
in developed countries , the us ranks low in terms of literacy , common sense , and science .
japan , south korea , the netherlands , and russia score much more than the us .
this is at least partly because education is too dependent on markets : the people with money are better educated , and without being educated .
so far , it is clear that clinton attracted more educated urban voters , while trump has mostly attracted less education , whose forebears were often supported by the democratic coal industry or industrial workers .
does this mean the connection between education ( or lack thereof ) and the appeal of dangerous demagogue ?
one of the most notable features of trump is his own ignorance , despite his high education , and the fact that he has benefited from flaunting his ignorance .
perhaps a 大嗓门 无知者 makes a lot easier for the world ’ s knowledge and people to believe themselves .
but this would be a mistake to assume in the rhetoric of a populist agitator .
emotions are more important , and , in the us and elsewhere , the main emotions dominating the demagogues are fear , resentment , and distrust .
the same was true of hitler in germany .
but the nazi party ’ s early supporters were largely not the least educated .
on average , germany ’ s higher education population is more populous than other countries , and some of the most enthusiastic nazi teachers , engineers , and doctors , and local businessmen , white-collar workers , and peasants .
overall , urban factory workers and conservative catholics are less sensitive to hitler ’ s rhetoric than many more educated protestants .
low education does not explain hitler ’ s rise .
fear , resentment , and distrust are high in weimar germany , when the failure of world war i and the disastrous economic depression gave germans a sense of humiliation .
but the racial prejudices inspired by nazi propaganda are different from that of trump ’ s supporters today .
jews were perceived as a sinister force , dominating elite professions : bankers , professors , lawyers , news media , and entertainment .
they are behind the so-called 搞鬼 , making germany a great one again .
trump ’ s supporters also display a similar hatred of the elite , such as wall street bankers , “ mainstream ” media , and washington insiders .
but their resentment was directed toward poor mexican immigrants , blacks , or middle east refugees , who are treated as freeloaders , who are 抢走了 ( white ) in the social hierarchy .
this is a problem of a group that is less vulnerable in a globalized world than those who are more vulnerable to globalization .
today , the us , like the weimar republic , has lacked trust in mainstream political and economic institutions , so that leaders following the promise of maximum disruption are following the lead .
they want to recover the old glory through a radical “ clean house . ”
in hitler ’ s germany , this hope existed among all classes , both elite and grassroots .
in trump ’ s america , this hope is mostly mostly thrives .
in the united states and europe , more affluent , highly educated voters believe that today ’ s world is not so frightening , benefiting from a combination of open borders , cheap migration , information technology , and cultural influences .
likewise , migrants and minorities who seek to improve their lives have no interest in joining the revolt against them , which is why they voted for clinton .
so trump must rely on the disaffected white americans who feel left behind .
the fact that people feel sufficiently strong to support a president like trump ’ s unqualified presidential candidate suggests that american society is dying .
this does have some relation to education – because well-educated , educated , and poorly educated systems have left too many vulnerable people .
in the past , there are enough industrial jobs to be left to less educated voters , leaving them decent lives .
today , these jobs are gradually disappearing in post-industrial societies , and too many people feel that they have nothing to lose .
this is true in many countries , but in the us , it is too high for a paranoid demagogue to lead not only to america , but also to a country that seeks to protect its freedoms in an increasingly dangerous world .
america ’ s double trade policy
cambridge – the high-profile american trade delegation has returned quietly from china to the united states .
this outcome is not surprising , because america ’ s demand is entirely and one-sided .
americans urge china to change its industrial policies and intellectual property rules , and demand that the chinese government do anything to do anything about trump ’ s unilateral tariffs on chinese exports .
a generation of global trade agreements – beginning with the world trade organization ’ s establishment in 1995 – was based on a premise that the global rules of law will converge .
china ’ s approach to economic management , in particular , will become more “ western . ”
on the contrary , the ongoing divergence in economic institutions has become fertile ground for trade frictions .
china and other economies have good reason to reject the pressure on us trade lobbies to impose pressure on them .
after all , china has achieved a massive globalization of globalization , and its creative unorthodox industrial policy is as creative as economic liberalization .
selective protection , credit subsidies , state-owned enterprises , domestic production rules , and technological transfers all play a role in china ’ s role as a manufacturing powerhouse .
china ’ s current strategy , “ made in china 2025 ” plan , aims to build on these achievements , allowing china to join the advanced economies .
the fact that many of china ’ s policies violate wto rules is obvious .
but a mockery of china ’ s “ trade con ” people should reflect on the need to diversify economic diversification and growth if it became a member of the wto before 2001 , or if it had applied carefully to wto rules since then .
ironically , the same commentators have many people who do not hesitate to believe that china is a model of globalization ’ s benefits – conveniently forgetting china ’ s contempt for the contemporary rules of the global economy .
china played a globalization game with what we call bretton woods rules , and before the postwar governance of the world economy was more relaxed .
as one chinese official once explained to me , china ’ s strategy was to open the window , with a 屏风 .
in doing so , they obtained fresh air ( foreign investment ) , and blocked harmful elements ( volatile capital flows and disruptive imports ) .
indeed , china ’ s behavior is not very different from what all advanced countries have done in history .
one of america ’ s biggest complaints about china is that china systematically violates intellectual property rights to steal technical secrets .
but in the nineteenth century , the united states ’ relationship with the united kingdom at the time was just as linked to china ’ s relations with the us today .
the us ’ s trade secrets for british industrialists are just as concerned with china ’ s ip concerns today .
the nascent textile mills in new england was eager to acquire technology , to steal britain ’ s designs , and smuggle skilled british craftsmen .
the us does have patent laws , but it protects american citizens .
as one historian of the us business historian put it , the us “ is also an piracy . ”
the starting point of a sensible international trade regime would be to acknowledge that policy space for countries to design their own economic and social models is neither feasible nor desirable .
countries ’ levels of development , values , and historical trajectories vary widely , and can not be reconfigured smoothly .
sometimes domestic policies backfire , allowing foreign investors to flee , and the domestic economy is impoverished .
sometimes , domestic policies drive economic transformation and poverty reduction , as china has achieved , not only to benefit the economy , but also to consumers worldwide .
international trade rules are a variety of interests – most notably , the interests of companies and their lobby groups – that can not be expected to be reliable in both settings .
countries that take harmful policies to stifle development prospects have hurt them .
when domestic strategy goes wrong , other countries may be hit , but their own economy is at the expense of the country ’ s economy – which is sufficiently incentive to do so .
in turn , the fear of a critical transfer of technological knowledge to foreigners will impose a ban on business investment in foreign or foreign firms ’ domestic acquisitions .
many liberal commentators in the us believe that trump is right to take on china .
but , in fact , trump ’ s trade agenda is behind narrow mercantilism , and corporate interests in the us are strictly higher than those of other stakeholders .
trump has no interest in improving global trade in general .
these policies should start from the trade regime ’ s golden rule : don ’ t save others .
america ’ s ongoing civil war
new york – the united states continues to be in civil war .
this is not just a civil war , but a civil war .
back in the first round of the 1860s , the confederacy lost .
but now the confederacy is temporarily leading .
the us remains torn apart by two cultures .
from the start , the us has had two visions of competing .
america ’ s founding credo was “ equal . ”
but the status quo was that white males were more equal than others .
whites have a slave , deprived women of their voting rights , and denied the land and livelihoods of native americans .
during the 内战 civil war , the confederacy of 13 divided states was defeated by 19 northern states , and then occupied by the federal government for a dozen years .
but in the aftermath of the “ reconstruction ” that ended in 1877 , the south was fully committed to systemic discrimination in a century , until the us congress , backed by the northern democrats , passed the civil rights act and 1965 rights act .
since then , southern white voters deserted the democrats .
the republicans adhere to the so-called southern strategy , based on resistance to the rise of african-americans and other minorities , and oppose legislation to transfer any funding to them , status , or power .
the republicans , too , became the party in the south , the democratic party of the northeast and pacific west , and the midwestern and western mountains became volatile zones .
the industrial great lakes region tended to be the democratic party , and the republicans are more prone to the midwestern farm and mountain states .
the midwestern and mountain states have also prevailed in the frontier culture of white settlers , who advocate repression for native-born immigrants and hispanic immigrants .
gun ownership marks another divide between democracy and republicans .
the republican party ’ s gun culture is a reflection of the same cultural power that determines its minority views .
the historian Roxanne Roxanne reminded us that the “ militias militias , ” referring to the second amendment to the second amendment in the united states , are in possession of the gun , with the right to carry out the gun , with the white group of the americas attacking native villages in the americas and hunting the boat .
just as Acharya Acharya , matthew blake , and matthew sen cite the deep roots of the recent book : how slavery shapes the south ’ s politics , the current political culture in the south is rooted in slavery and the apartheid insurgency .
according to their argument , “ the most likely to be 反对 in the region , where slavery has been used , is the most likely objection to the democratic party , opposition to affirmative action , and the possibility of being interpreted as racial hatred . ”
before the civil war , poor southern whites accepted their humble status , because they value their superiority over a more desperate african-american .
ethnic politics thus impedes the rise of class politics , while class politics could have led to poor whites and black blacks to raise taxes to the white elite .
in today ’ s 26 senators , representing 13 former confederate states , 21 are republicans , and only five from the democrats .
and , in the 19 northern states representing the 1861 in 1861 , 27 people come from democrats , and only nine ( and two are independent 无党派人士 , 伯 , · and angus 金 , who are often aligned with democrats ) .
trump embraces the white male culture of white males , leaving his own hometown of his hometown helpless to avoid , by september 2018 , 59 % of the vote .
he is not like manhattan , more mississippi .
this cultural divide has been amply demonstrated during the recent us supreme court nominee , judge brett kavanaugh .
kavanaugh ’ s senate supporters were mainly white in the south and midwest , who were fighting for him when confronted with criticism of kavanaugh ’ s advocacy of white males ’ drinking and 寻欢作乐 privilege .
mitch mcconnell of kentucky , a former slave state , successfully orchestrated kavanaugh ’ s nomination .
蓄奴 graham , the state of south carolina , was first declared in 1860 , and 林赛 graham , the state from the state of the state , was the strongest supporter of the senate judiciary committee , describing sexual assaults against kavanaugh as “ the most unethical fraud since his own politics . ”
john f. kennedy was born with another former confederate state , describing the hearings with “ 银河系 秀 . ”
democracy and the republicans are not only parties of different cultures and regions , but also different economies .
the northeast and pacific states have been leading us high-tech , innovative , tertiary , well-paying jobs , and per capita income .
the south is far from comparable .
working-class whites in the south and midwest not only defended their status and race ; they are also fighting for their jobs , owing to the steady erosion of jobs , automation , and foreign trade in their industries .
working-class whites from the working-class south would have much to gain from abandoning the racial politics of the republican party .
after all , it is white corporate elites , not poor african-americans , hispanics , and other minorities who deprive working-class whites of quality public education , affordable health care , and environmental safety .
southern white senator senators are part of a culture war aimed at protecting the republicans ’ super-rich , who enjoy the party ’ s tax cuts and the ease of relaxing environmental regulations , while republicans all blame african-americans and hispanics .
the declining dominance of non-hispanic whites in the total population is likely to widen america ’ s cultural divide over the last two decades .
with non-hispanic whites expected to become a minority of the total population by around 2045 , the ongoing civil war in the us is likely to intensify .
the war will not end unless all the working-class americans , ethnic , and ethnic americans united , demanding that wealthy corporate elites pay more taxes and more responsibility .
america ’ s exploding deficit
cambridge – two recent pieces of budget news are a serious warning to america ’ s fiscal policy crisis .
president barack obama ’ s administration ’ s executive management and budget office announced that the federal government ’ s deficit of about $ 600 billion in fiscal year was $ 600 billion , and annual growth is more than $ 345 billion on year .
and the cbo ’ s annual budget projections predict that , with fiscal policy unchanged , the federal government ’ s debt will rise from 75 % of gdp a decade later to 86 % , to 86 % , with a record record of ％ % , with italy , portugal , and greece .
while us debt has doubled over the past decade , the obama administration and congress willfully ignored the problem , instead focusing on the gradual decline in annual deficits and the relative stability of the deficit relative to gdp .
but this short-term success is due to economic recovery and limits on the us congress ’ s spending on defense and non-defense discretionary programs .
but the long-term increase in the annual deficit – owing to an aging population , rising health-care technology , and rising interest rates – and thus a rising debt-to-gdp ratio , which is clearly predicted by the congressional budget office and other institutions .
a large number of older americans who qualify for social security benefits will increase spending from 4.9 % of gdp in the next 30 years to 6.3 % of gdp .
the cost of the major federal health-care programs has risen from GDP5.5 % now to 8.9 % in 1910 , to 8.9 % of the recipients ’ longevity and the number of additional health-care technologies that have been produced by the population .
despite the increase in the volume of debt , the fed ’ s unconventional monetary policy has driven down the cost of a net federal debt , which amounts to 1.4 % of gdp .
but as interest rates normalize and the volume of debt grows , the cost of servicing the national debt is expected to rise to 5.8 % of gdp .
if the rest of the deficit and debt forecasts are proved correct , interest costs may be far less likely to be expected .
but us treasury investors may demand much higher interest rates as a return on the share of government bonds in their portfolios .
in that case , interest costs and debt will be much higher .
the fact that more than half of us public debt is publicly issued by foreign investors may make interest rates more sensitive to the size of the debt .
foreign investors may worry that governments will adopt policies that reduce their real holdings .
although the us government would not explicitly default , it can pursue policies ( such as the earned-income income tax ) to do so , which will hurt foreign holders and reduce the value of bonds .
moreover , foreign investors may worry that excessive debt levels could lead to inflationary monetary policy , which will lead to a weaker dollar and lower the real value of bonds .
here is why the cbo ’ s projections are surprising .
by 2049 , the projected spending on “ mandatory ” entitlement programs ( social security and major health programs ) , together with interest payments on debt , would be higher than the income of the government today .
even spending on “ discretionary ” programs , such as defense , would save a small deficit , with a small deficit of 1.6 % of gdp .
we can not offset the growth of mandatory programs by slowing defense and other discretionary programs .
total defense spending amounts to just 3.2 % of current gdp , and is expected to decline to 2.6 % over the next decade and to remain at the same level in 20 years .
this would be the lowest level of defense spending since world war ii .
it is estimated that all non-defense discretionary programs would be similarly reduced , with the lowest percentage of gdp ratios .
the bright spot of this bleak picture is that it does not need too much of the annual deficit to prevent the rise in the debt ratio , or even allow the latter to move back to its level a decade ago .
if any combination of policies that began to reduce spending and raise income by 2017 , the deficit could be averted by 1.7 % of gdp , avoiding the current rate of relative gdp growth .
at the same time , reducing the deficit by 3 % per year will reverse the trajectory of debt growth and return it to the decades before the recession .
no presidential candidate has announced plans or will to reverse expectations of rising national debt .
but this should be a top priority for the white house ’ s occupant next year .
there is no excuse to delay waiting quickly , and to avoid the worst .
america ’ s anti-environmentalists
as americans , i am appalled , ashamed , and embarrassing in dealing with global warming .
the scientific evidence of the risks of warming is growing , and the stern report of the british authority has been documented .
but , while the us accounts for about 25 % of all man-made carbon emissions , americans have no willingness or inclination to change their consumption .
despite the wrong reasons , the bush administration was right to refuse to sign the so-called kyoto protocol .
the kyoto protocol is problematic , one that redistributing carbon emissions to developing countries .
but why can ’ t the us raise taxes on gasoline and other sources of carbon emissions such as coal power plants ?
despite the economy ’ s booming growth , the us government has a huge deficit , as if it does not need them .
many believe that bush is the problem .
what can you expect from a texas oil businessman and his friends who took power , and what is to be expected ?
american citizens ’ resistance to the global environment to reduce energy consumption is more deeply entrenched .
for example , former us vice president al gore ’ s film film , the global warming film , has been commended for winning praise for fossil fuel consumption , which has been lauded for fossil-fuel consumption .
the evidence of global warming is far more vague than gore ’ s film , but the underlying problem is real .
unfortunately , however , gore has failed to carry out the torch of warming during his political history .
there was no 恭维 .
no wonder the american public is strongly resistant to any aspect of the lifestyle that does force them to change their oil costs .
in this , not only politicians can provide leadership .
a respected new york times editor , the editor of the new york times , was until recently opposed to any energy tax , finally supporting the proposal .
like many liberals , the newspaper ’ s editors worried that higher energy taxes would make the poor too much worse off .
the typical argument that people hear is that there is no way to work in the poor in the 耗油 1980 ’ s .
this is true , but , as stern reports have pointed out , if sea levels begin to rise , many of our children will be swimming to work one day .
reducing poverty is not an excuse for inaction on global warming .
unfortunately , the new york times ’ s changing position does not herald a change in us voters ’ stance .
if any one of the candidates for a us president in 2008 could raise the energy tax , they will have to lose .
claiming that you care about environmental issues or , like bush , the magic technology will solve problems without much pain .
but any 2008 presidential candidate who dares to talk about a safer environment in the future is certainly risky .
before americans begin to address the global environmental problems that they have created , it is hard to see the support of the rest of the world being reached .
developing countries ask that if rich countries are not willing to limit their own emissions sharply , why should they focus on global warming ?
if rich countries were so profligate , why should poor countries worry about deforestation as a result of global warming ?
scientific evidence suggests that carbon emissions anywhere in the world have the same impact on global warming .
for this reason , many economists agree on a united ( coordinated ) global tax to tax all of the world ’ s places on carbon emissions , a tax on carbon emissions , whether coal , oil , or gas , regardless of consumers or consumers .
such taxes are the most flexible and pro-market way , and the impact on economic growth is minimal .
by contrast , the complex system of quotas that europe favors and embodied in the kyoto protocol threatens to lead to greater inefficiencies and costs .
for this reason , the uk ’ s stern report on reducing carbon emissions would cost only 1 % of the income of a year ’ s income by just 1 % .
but the stern report ’ s suggestion that the potential risks of continued inaction are far greater is the right thing to do .
one day , america ’ s unwillingness to assume leadership on environmental issues will be considered the country ’ s most profound political failures .
one hopes that the us will change course soon before we are forced to wear out to work .
the new low of china bashing
new haven – as america ’ s election season nears its end , the debate about elections seems unhinged .
both have highlighted the general election debate : the pain of america ’ s pain would be mitigated as long as the country ’ s tough strength is tough .
there is nothing going away from the truth , please think about the following charges :
currency manipulation .
since china launched its exchange-rate regime in july 2005 , the renminbi appreciated 32 % against the us , and has appreciated by about 30 % against a basket of currencies after the inflation rate .
this is not a trivial sum , and the renminbi ’ s exchange rate will continue to rise in the years ahead .
unlike japan , which was forced to undertake a sharp yen appreciation in the wake of western pressure in 1985 , the chinese chose more gradual and cautious action .
american officials view this as “ manipulation , ” arguing that the market ’ s power would have made the renminbi more significant than it is currently .
the chinese , by contrast , obsession with maintaining stability – an idea that us politicians and policymakers are unfamiliar with – and thus enjoy a more active role in managing their own currency .
i call this prudence – or even wisdom .
after 20 years of lost experience , japan ’ s guinea might know which approach is more appropriate .
outsourcing and intellectual property .
while america ’ s labor force has been in bad shape recently , america ’ s employment situation remains abysmal .
private-sector employment is still 4.1 million below its january 2008 peak .
but that is not enough to support the argument that the current crisis stems from the outsourcing of us manufacturing jobs to china .
while the share of manufacturing employment in the private sector fell from 11.9% % in january 2008 to 10.7 % in september 2012 , this is only a small part of the long-term trend in the long run , which accounted for more than 30 % .
in contrast to china , weak demand – especially consumer spending growth after the crisis – is more like the most recent culprit in hiring demand .
and china itself has become a major contributor to globalization – an assembly hub for production of production chains for more than a country , and an efficient offshore solution to the efficient offshore solution of western multinationals .
some 50 % of chinese exports were processed before other economies , and almost 60 % of all products were directed abroad by chinese subsidiaries of so-called “ foreign enterprises . ”
these trends benefit chinese workers while benefiting the us and other countries , because it helped to control inflation , while enabling firms to cope with harsh competitive pressures .
moreover , it did not prevent western innovators from putting intellectual property and new technologies on the production lines of china ’ s production base , such as apple .
trade deficits .
true , the us has a large trade deficit with china – about $ 2950 billion in 2011 , with roughly 40 % of total us merchandise trade in merchandise trade .
republican democrats have long believed that this is the key to america ’ s employment problem .
after all , trade deficits mean job losses .
because the largest part of the us trade gap stems from china ’ s 诽谤 作弊者 , the bilateral trade deficit has become a 诋毁 of the chinese .
this is precisely the reason behind the recent spat between the united states and china in the world trade organization and china ’ s 限制 wind power plant , which , in terms of trump ’ s assertions of currency manipulation and trade sanctions , is being fueled by romney .
but neither candidate acknowledges the bigger elephant .
the us ran trade deficits with 98 countries in 2011 .
other 97 deficits have not disappeared .
without saving , the us can afford to grow , and the us can afford to import other countries ’ excess savings with large current-account and multilateral trade deficits .
this misses the core of china ’ s folly .
no country in history has maintained a negative saving rate .
the trade deficit – from china or other countries – is one of the costs of america ’ s profligacy .
unless and until the us is directly confronted with its long-term deviation from saving – that is , by cutting massive federal budget spending and encouraging a 重建 household saving – multilateral trade deficits will continue .
simple arithmetic and basic economics tell us that you can not solve multilateral problems through a bilateral solution .
politicians have a penchant for simple and powerful information .
but those messages are often exaggerated .
many american households are hurting , and elected officials want to blame china , thereby diverting people ’ s attention from rebuilding saving , restoring competitiveness , and living beyond their means .
indeed , it is arguably the american public that has been manipulated by those targeted by china ’ s mistakes .
fortunately , the duration of the election is coming to an end .
the answer , however , is what happens next .
those who dismiss china generally will not change after the presidential election .
but the pressure on american households to continue on american families after november 6 will not disappear .
both obama and romney are confronting the risks that lie ahead with china .
this could push us all to a slippery slope .
before it is too late , us leaders must confess to their own people .
a social democracy in the us ?
almost all of the world ’ s developed countries have seen themselves as social democracies , pursuing mixed economic systems , with large governments and the allocation of the distribution of social benefits and livelihoods to most social wealth and the distribution of living goods .
the united states is something different , or is it ?
whatever the past , the us must decide whether to become a social democracy soon , and how much to accept social democracy ?
in the past , at least , there has been little “ 下流 ” in the us .
on the contrary , before the civil war in the united states , you could start with the 铁轨 track , and then quickly to the west , with victorious victories in the front of the white house – if you were called abraham lincoln .
in world war ii , one can maintain a blue-collar job in the union ’ s trade unions , or to climb to the top of the authorities , enjoy good professional security , relatively generous pay , and long-term stability .
but at least half of the myth is 神化 .
it is expensive to pay a high price for the country ’ s entry into the top .
even in the post-wwii period , only a small fraction of americans – mostly white men – can produce firms in a union of large capital 集约型 , such as gm , ge , or at & t .
but if that claim is half to boast , half is always true .
in the years since world war ii , in particular , most americans , or americans who do not depend on family life , can find a “ promising ” job , secure life , and secure life .
around the same time , about 1948 , the sociologist began to discover that most americans were beginning to position themselves as middle class rather than working class .
in the united states ’ collective memory , the post-wwii era was a 参考点 , even though it is more than an aberration .
in the immediate decade ending in world war ii , foreign competition was essentially irrelevant to the us economy , owing to complete isolation from the continental european market in the postwar depression .
at the same time , the war has spurred massive demand for wholesale demand for the products of cars , washing machines , refrigerators , 割草机 , television , etc .
governments then return to their policy horizons , beginning with a permanent military program on expenses and development , and will continue to advance the program ’ s work and program programs , with the support of the federal highway program , financed to federal housing authority .
the regulatory regimes and codes of regulation that were developed in the “ new deal ” were allowed to enter into force , including the social security , the labor force system , and market norms .
in the environment of competing macroeconomic conditions , together with strong support from the government ’ s strong support and effective adjustment , together with massive private insurance and effective private insurance , many of the benefits of social democracy in the post-world war ii us have been rewarded by social democracy .
americans – especially white men – do not have to strike a tradeoff between opportunity and security , because the us gives the advantages of both .
corporate welfare capitalism has replaced the european model of social democracy .
the us has thus become a special place .
he has a 独享 ( market ) cake and an opportunity to secure a security with a business .
it seems that this is the natural order of things .
so there is little pressure on the government ’ s 操办 social democracy .
what , then , is the new system ?
today , things are different .
the typical american employer is no longer typical of american employers .
it is already taking place .
private firms are working to reduce their economic risks by reducing their employees ’ fixed benefits , such as pensions , health insurance , and other forms of insurance .
soaring income inequality has raised the investment ceiling for the economic game .
a country that can not balance domestic fiscal conditions can not provide a stable macroeconomic environment .
indeed , former us federal reserve chairman paul volcker has foreseen this , arguing that america ’ s macroeconomic scenario is at risk , which will be 75 % in the coming years .
the next generation will be a generation of americans who will bear the “ overall 下流 . ”
the resulting political struggle will determine whether the us is closer to social democracy in other advanced countries , or in a different direction , looking for a way that can withstand america ’ s high economic risks and yawning income disparities , and rightly address the problem .
syria and september 11
paris – on september 11 , the us congress is likely to decide whether to support obama ’ s proposal to support the use of military action against civilians in syria on september 11 .
the shadow effect of the two previous events on september 11 , 2001 , affected the outcome – indeed , whether it will be considered .
four decades before the special days of september 11 , 2001 , it received similar importance in chile .
the violent coup has played a role from the contemporary global movement for human rights and the international push for human rights .
in some ways , this reflects the new regime ’ s cruelty .
but , more fundamentally , the stimulus campaign has fueled the revulsion of the world – including the united states – to president richard nixon and secretary of state henry kissinger ’ s aid to the military ’ s forces .
in the us , members of congress turned the coup into a platform for advancing human rights .
they condemned the country ’ s problems , and to address the hearing on the importance of human rights , and overcome the president ’ s veto by legislation requiring the 用人权 standards to guide us foreign policy .
today , this legislation remains valid , and only slightly modified .
obama declared that syria ’ s use of chemical weapons would cross “ red lines ” – and suggests that if the line of law is used – that reflects the promise of human rights in the us over the past four decades .
events in september 11 , 2001 , have also played a key role in imposing punitive strikes on syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s regime .
one consequence of the terrorist attacks 12 years ago is that the us and other western countries recognize that developments in the middle east could affect its own security and security .
initially , the attack caused a powerful desire for revenge , and , since the consequences of the consequences , revenge of revenge was replaced by caution .
in the united kingdom , where people have been duped into the war against the iraq war , it has become a congressional rejection of the main causes of the fight against syria .
fear of another middle east war is obama ’ s willingness to pursue a one-time punitive strike against syria , and some members of congress even disagree .
congress must be careful to avoid repeating the disastrous mistakes of the iraq war in 2003 , but the united states ’ commitment to human rights after september 11 , 1973 , seems to be a better criterion for assessing obama ’ s us military intervention in syria .
the international ban on the use of chemical weapons is an urgent issue .
the assad regime ’ s culpability for using chemical weapons is undeniable .
if the us congress is to take into account obama ’ s plan , rather than succumbing to the advice of his party , he would be able to strengthen his position on the constitutional power of his constitutional authority , which has been undermined by the last half-century , rather than strengthening it .
a key part of this role is to think carefully about the limits of punitive strikes .
the war in iraq was misunderstood from the start , because it was a national retaliation against the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks and the invasion of power .
instead , obama ’ s proposal to fight syria is to strengthen important human rights norms , which do not include aggression and occupation , but directly punishing those who commit harm .
this has returned to the core of the us foreign policy center set after september 11 , 1973 .
america ’ s constrained choice
newport beach – the conventional wisdom about the november presidential election in the united states is only partly correct .
yes , economic issues will play a large role in determining outcomes .
but the next phase – whether the party that wins in an increasingly ugly race – is much more uncertain than the uncertainty that its rivals have pursued .
with the new president ’ s term starting in january 2013 , contrary to what is now described by obama and romney ’ s penchant for competition , those who came to power will find that there is little room for adjustment .
in fact , there is no shortage of potential differences in the us .
they focus on social policies that are accompanied by a wide range of similar economic policies ; here , the differences between candidates will have significant consequences .
whoever wins will face economic growth only 2 % next year , with a full risk of stagnation .
unemployment is still high , and about half of the unemployed are struggling to find a long-term unemployed unemployed – a share that should be even higher if we were to leave the labor force in the us .
economic considerations are also worrisome .
the fiscal deficit will continue to be stuck at 10 % of gdp , raising concerns about america ’ s medium-term debt dynamics .
and the household sector is suffering only half of the painful deleveraging phase .
the policy side is equally unsettling .
after hesitation and hesitation , the us congress will find it impossible to delay efforts to meet these challenges .
at the same time , the us federal reserve ’ s 翻唱 activism – including the list of ever-expanding “ 石头 ” measures – will be more effective , and the costs will become increasingly expensive .
the global environment in which the us operates is increasingly difficult .
in the coming months , europe ’ s debt crisis will most likely worsen .
given the slowdown in emerging markets ( including china ) , while a meaningful multilateral policy coordination has always been insufficient , major trade powers will compete to compete , so protectionist pressures will rise .
so , regardless of whether president barack obama wins in november , the new president will be constrained by a double constraint – a need for stability and long-term reform .
and , under the pressure of europe ’ s crisis and the world , the candidates have no choice but to adopt similar economic policies to restore job creation and financial stability , at least when the term began .
in seeking a balance between short-term economic stimulus and medium-term fiscal sustainability , the most important step is to address the fiscal cliff that is due to expire in temporary tax cuts and the fiscal cliff caused by deep and deep spending cuts .
failure to do so would significantly increase the risk of a full-blown recession .
a deep medium-term budget reform is essential to tackling the problem of repeated congressional inaction .
moreover , if the real numbers are learned , the next president will soon recognize that the right path to tax and spending reform is very narrow , far from today ’ s competitive political sloganeering .
this is certainly not an either/or proposition .
fiscal reform is best achieved in a dynamic economy .
to this end , obama and romney will have to do everything against growth and job creation .
in this area , as in real estate , labor markets , credit intermediation , and infrastructure , there is no way to do so .
but that doesn ’ t mean that it can not be done .
the space for change is that it reflects the fact that overall economic trends will be accompanied by dynamic dynamics .
according to the difference between skills and education , persistent differences in unemployment are persistent ; income and wealth inequality is hitting a historical record – a requirement that , in terms of distributional effects , will be accompanied by the need for social adjustment .
after the “ era ” of excessive leverage , debt creation , and excessive credit creation , the “ era ” that culminated in the global financial crisis of 2008 , the united states faces a daunting challenge – how to allocate the cumulative losses of investment , employment , and competitiveness .
so far , congress ’ s excessive political polarization has produced the effects of more adjustment on the weaker countries .
in an ideal world , the new us president should quickly implement a two-step approach to restore job dynamism and reinvigorate financial stability .
first , he should design a comprehensive and satisfactory package of economic policies – in this regard , to make significant difference .
second , for these economic policies , an explicit social policy mix – in which potential changes are significant – is needed to meet the need for fair burden-sharing .
indeed , the election is not a choice for outsourcing and tax increases or entitlement reform ; choosing the government to control production or unfettered private-sector activity ; and the choice of job creation or free riders .
the stakes in this election are the social justice , welfare , equality of personality , and a rich and civilized society .
this is an election in which social responsibility is a matter of social responsibility : social responsibility , community support for those who are not seeking jobs , and the obligation to find jobs and balance-of-payments pressures .
this election is about the most vulnerable communities in which they protect society .
in a variety of fairness and justice issues , it is the election ’ s focus that gives the rich a 制度 system to give them unimaginable wealth .
here , the differences between obama and romney are important .
the sooner the campaign will be , the more the american people are likely to make a more informed choice , thereby taking the necessary collective action to keep america out of control .
america ’ s crony capitalism
buenos aires – for 20 years , the united states has been openly attacking the third world in the world , especially in asia .
yet , at a time when the us has been touting its government and corporate governance – a groundbreaking decision that the hong kong court has just made bad for the local telecom giants – crony capitalism has taken root in a country that has long seen the world as a model of fair business competition .
the us treasury ’ s recently completed bank “ stress tests , ” a recent symbol of crony capitalism occupying washington , dc .
the us treasury secretary timothy geithner ’ s stress tests on big banks in the united states , and a few weeks before testing the results , were leaked , no wonder that the stock market would welcome the test of stress tests .
indeed , many professional investors , even because they benefited from rising stock prices , still believe that stress tests are dishonest .
even the most vocal 拉拉队长 wall street journal , the wall street journal , is openly suspicious of the integrity of the test , because the us government allowed bankers to “ negotiate ” the results of stress tests , like a student in the final exam negotiations .
the stress tests are the real thing to reflect on the fact that a large number of banks holding a large share of mortgage loans and financial derivatives are inadequately impaired , and the reasons behind the stress tests seem impeccable .
but is it ?
any experienced banker knows that managing good banks should take regular internal “ stress tests ” into a good business manager .
should the financial crisis have forced the banks to put themselves under constant stress tests , so that it is not .
the truth is that the test of us stress tests is not intended to find answers to the problem .
both wall street ’ s titans and the obama administration have known the truth .
they know that if the true truth of the us banks were to be made , many banks would immediately be declared bankruptcy , which would force the government ’ s bankruptcy authorities to prevent the resulting wave of bank runs .
while experts like former us federal reserve board chair paul volcker recommend nationalizing the us , the obama administration has been reluctant to nationalize it , because it does not want to be labeled “ socialism ” for nationalization .
and , if the us nationalized banks , there will necessarily be some wall street titans and their colleagues because of severe mismanagement .
wall street ’ s titans , however , have convinced obama and his administration that their continued work is critical to the world economy .
moreover , they succeeded in portraying themselves as victims of the economic crisis , not an act of economic crisis .
larry summers and barack obama ’ s chief economic adviser , larry summers , is a glorified 门徒 of the us treasury secretary , and robert rubin of citigroup , and robert rubin of goldman sachs ’ s board of directors , who believed that the culture of wall street was difficult .
the stress tests were meant to tell the public that the banks had no imminent bankruptcy threat .
the government hopes that such information can stabilize markets so that the price of “ toxic ” assets can rise to the point that bankers can feel less difficult to sell when selling them .
after all , senior bankers once said that the “ price tag ” of these banks ’ assets , pricing them at market level , would be unnecessarily penalized .
as it stands , geithner ’ s “ stress tests ” seem to have succeeded , because , indeed , the stock market is not just a stabilizing price , like the price of bank shares like citigroup and bank of america , and has increased by a fourfold rise .
the bankruptcy of wall street has been feared , and now seems to have been avoided .
but no one really believes that the us would allow citigroup and bank of america – which listed two banks – to fail .
in fact , the stock market bottomed out last winter .
what the world wants is precisely what the precise data about banks ’ value and the amount of “ market ” value that banks need to channel their investors ’ money .
the world also wants to see that the us can return to the path of stronger business ethics and good behavior – one that the last us administration lacks .
because taxpayers have invested heavily in rescuing failing banks and investing more in money , there is a need for transparency that suggests how these money is used .
the us , reportedly , has a large amount of public rescue funds , not to be transferred to foreign banks , goldman sachs , or a bonus of financial institutions ’ employees .
geithner ’ s stress tests have not revealed or debunked these circumstances .
on the contrary , the us government ’ s staff now seems to be on the streets of wall street , creating a false aura of profitability .
moreover , the value of toxic assets is as murky as ever .
in order to make the banks largely reporting their own devices , the us government has been revising its sacred accounting standards under wall street .
now that the us has unveiled the results of negotiations on the us government and banks , it is far healthier to “ prove ” america ’ s banks than people think .
while it may be too harsh to call this 骗局 scam , they are similar .
there is no financial profession to be fooled .
at the same time , wall street and their directors have little to worry about the us government , on the contrary , on the contrary , they are now a partner in the us government .
like swine flu , crony capitalism has shifted from corrupt third countries to the us , which once became a reliable place for government and corporate governance .
so , with the us being regarded as a reliable model for developing countries , and the us is now considered a symbol of hypocrisy and double marks , what is odd about us ?
america ’ s dangerous debt ceiling debate
newport beach – the us government ’ s debt ceiling has raised more than 70 times over the last 50 years , and there is little disagreement .
the us government must raise this ceiling again this summer if it wants to continue paying on its debt .
as a result , the line became the subject of private and emotional political pronouncements and urgent negotiations , and the outcome will clearly affect the rest of the world .
as part of the us system of checks and balances , congress has not only played a role in approving the federal budget , but also the us treasury ’ s debt ceiling .
once the ceiling exceeds that ceiling , the government would have spent money in the same way .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner recently informed the government that the government would have informed congress about the debt ceiling on august 2 .
with total borrowing already reaching a ceiling , the treasury is now using a variety of idle funds to pay off payment payments .
for several weeks , these “ liquidity ” will be depleted .
given that 40 cents of the us government ’ s current spending on $ 1 per dollar is at stake , a binding debt ceiling would force it to cut its spending sharply .
both politicians know that this will destabilize the us economy , which is already vulnerable , severely weakening the dollar , and triggering a highly dubious market that includes the us ’ s ability to pay for us debt .
but , in the current political environment of extreme polarization in washington , republicans and democrats are reluctant to compromise – or believe it is too early to compromise .
the republicans want to use a standoff to force the obama administration into massive spending cuts .
the democrats argue that the alternative to other factors would not only harm economic , but also social injustice .
at the same time , both sides risk disrupting transfer payments ( including the elderly ) and the provision of public services , even further threatening america ’ s global credit .
the recent example is that this year ’ s fiscal stimulus , which was not approved by congress , threatened the normal functioning of the government , and finally in compromise .
compromise on both sides would be mutually assured , offering government commitments to reduce spending and take a range of steps to make taxes more social justice .
but , like so many last-minute agreements , the agreement lacks long-term efficacy .
in fact , america ’ s political system will soon be repeated , and the hoped-for fiscal reforms are expected to be achieved only after the 2012 presidential election .
the time for a temporary compromise on both parties depends on a two-step or two-step approach , and it may be possible to see two scenarios in august 2 .
moreover , politicians need a two-step approach : the first is the failure of the agreement , which was followed by a rapid compromise in the aftermath of financial markets .
at the same time , the treasury will temporarily 重新安排 and slow payments .
this two-step process was somewhat similar to that of 2008 , when congress faced another dangerous condition : the bush administration demanded $ 700 billion to prevent financial markets from collapsing and economic downturns .
congress initially rejected this demand , but the stock market ’ s 急挫 points made politicians far more difficult to do , and then put the proposal back on the agenda .
but this approach would create many chronic risks for the us economy and its global standing , and the longer the us politicians address the debt ceiling , the greater the risk of an accident .
this could trigger a more worrying third scenario : the negotiations are long , and there is no longer , for the government ’ s fiscal payment , to fulfill other contractual obligations , as well as a greater disruption of public services .
those creditors who have already held us bonds will be able to express more serious concerns when they continue purchasing their purchases , so that america ’ s economy , already facing the crisis of unemployment and growth , is suffering more headwinds .
the next five weeks will take a lot of drama .
and our most basic expectation is that the democrats and republicans will be able to find ways to avoid damaging the fragile us economy in the face of risk , only to achieve meaningful medium-term fiscal reforms .
for the us private sector and countries that rely on the us to play a central role in the global economy , the us political system is uneasy about the paralysis that it faces when confronted with such critical economic issues .
this explains why so many firms are willing to hold cash without domestic investment , and explain why a growing number of countries are seeking to diversify their strategies gradually , and not to use us financial markets to manage their hard-earned savings .
the global economy is closely tied to the assumption of a strong us , and americans benefit from it .
but the more the us politicians debate on the debt ceiling , the more likely it is likely to break down .
america ’ s deepening moral crisis
new york – the political and economic crisis in the united states is set to worsen further after the midterm congressional elections in november .
obama , who has long been committed to helping the poor and environmental legislation , will lose his last hope .
indeed , all important legislation and reform will be stalled until the new presidential election in 2013 changed .
the sad situation that is fraught with stalemate and vitriol is likely to intensify , so the world should not expect much global leadership in a sharp and fragmented us .
most americans are now in an ugly mood , and the language of compassion and language has been abandoned .
both parties , though claiming to defend middle-class interests , are serving only for wealthy electoral donors .
the official statistics say that 15 % of the us population is poor , but the actual numbers are even larger if we are to see families like those who are in health care , housing , employment , etc .
the republican party recently issued a declaration called “ to america ’ s oath : the new republican agenda ” describes his belief and electoral promises .
but the declaration is replete with absurd statements like “ high taxes and over-regulation that led to high unemployment in the us . ”
moreover , the declaration deliberately misled the public , such as quotes from former us president john f. kennedy about “ high taxes that would suffocate the economy ” a half-century ago , while the top marginal tax rate was twice that of today .
the united states ’ internal disintegration in this rich country is because its core values have collapsed .
american productivity is among the highest in the world .
per capita national income amounts to $ 4.6 million – not only to feed itself , but also to live rich people .
but the country is being steered into a serious moral crisis .
income inequality has reached historic highs , and people claim that they are not responsible for other citizens .
they are reluctant to help the poor , and defend their tax cuts as much as possible .
all are complaining that everyone is defending their narrow short-term interests , and everyone will be left behind by the idea of a society ’ s long-term interests and aspirations .
in the current political debate in the united states , the most popular approach is to make a bigger political commitment to the middle class , and mainly to reduce government budgets and tax cuts , while the us fiscal deficit has exceeded 10 % of gdp .
americans seem to believe that they have a strong government service without paying taxes .
in the us political lexicon , “ taxes ” mean “ limiting liberty . ”
but , just a decade ago , americans were keen to address poverty at home and abroad .
in the middle of the 1960 ’ s , lyndon johnson ’ s “ war on poverty ” reflects the country ’ s euphoria , which was widely optimistic that the entire society must act in concert to address the problems of poverty , pollution , and health care , as well as programs to improve the air and water pollution .
but then , in the wake of the vietnam war and civil rights issues , the invasion of consumerism and advertising , together with the invasion of consumerism and advertising , ended up bringing the public to an end .
for 40 years , compassion has receded .
ronald reagan won support by reducing the social welfare of the poor ( who claimed that the poor had been able to gain extra benefits by being cheated by the poor ) .
bill clinton continued the 1990 ’ s .
today , not even politicians dare to make any poverty-reduction policy .
the election contributors to the rich are intended to ensure that their vested interests dominate the political debate .
this means that both parties are defending the interests of the rich , albeit a little less than the democrats .
even a modest tax hike on the rich is unlikely in the us .
all of this ends in the us ’ s long history of strength and prosperity , because americans are no longer collectively investing in their common future .
the us will remain a rich country for a long time , but it will gradually divide and instability .
fear and propaganda will lead the us to launch more international war , just as it did over the last decade .
and what happens in the us will happen in the rest of the world .
a highly polarized society has led to a profound social breakdown in the us .
and racism and anti-immigrant sentiment are an important part of the attacks on the poor , or at least the willingness to take on those who oppose the support of the poor .
as other societies diverge from their own societies , they follow the us .
swedish voters have recently cast enough votes on a right-wing anti-immigrant party , enough to make it a place in parliament , reflecting the growing resistance of swedish resistance to foreign migrants .
in france , sarkozy ’ s government has tried to win working-class support by expelling migrants from 移民 migrants , who have become perpetrators of ethnic hatred and attacks .
the lesson in the us is that economic development does not guarantee that people ’ s wellbeing and political stability are not guaranteed .
america ’ s social landscape is deteriorating , with the rich having been paying money for political power , while the poor are left to die .
in their private lives , americans have become trapped in consumerism , and consumerism swallowed americans ’ time , money , energy , and the tendency to commit to collective wellbeing .
the world must beware .
unless we get away with the vicious cycle of this kind of 权钱交易 and pathological consumerism , we will lose a little less .
america ’ s economic stalemate
cambridge – the united states seems trapped in a dangerous economic stagnation trap , both republicans and democrats reject the budget issue , leaving the us government unable to deal with massive fiscal deficits and rising national debt .
indeed , the congressional budget office estimates that the national debt will rise to 82 % of gdp over the next decade , double the level of the 2008 level .
moreover , this estimate is based on a very optimistic assumption on economic growth and low interest rates .
if growth is not so high , nominal interest rates are not so low , and the debt ratio will exceed 100 % in 2021 and surpass 150 % by 2030 .
one major reason for the acceleration in government debt is that the us population is aging rapidly , leading to an increase in the cost of universal pension and health-care programs – social welfare and medicare .
most experts believe that limiting debt growth must reduce the share of these “ welfare ” programs , while raising taxes as a share of gdp .
but president barack obama and congressional democrats oppose any reduction in entitlement programs , while republican presidential candidate candidates and congressional representatives oppose any additional tax increases .
the result is the current stalemate – not to cut the fiscal deficit , or to reverse the rising tide of national debt .
the republicans argue that national debt growth can be limited only by cutting government spending .
although some traditional spending cuts have been part of spending controls , this approach needs to be accompanied by cuts in “ tax expenditures ” – the tax code , mortgage loans , and local government taxes .
limiting tax expenditures could reduce annual deficits of 2 % of gdp , thereby lowering the debt-to-gdp ratio by more than 25 percentage points in 2021 .
republicans generally reject this form of spending cuts , because it would increase taxes .
this approach does make total tax revenue more expensive , but the economic effects of limiting tax expenditures are exactly the same as reducing those programs by other means .
but the republicans ’ opposition to any additional tax revenue means that the key to breaking the budget gridlock will never be implemented .
the budget costs of social welfare can be cut gradually by substituting for 部分 , based partly on investment-based personal retirement accounts , which currently rely on tax payments .
but even if such reforms can maintain income levels for retirees , democrats will also oppose , because it would reduce traditional government benefits .
so the stalemate will deepen .
both parties ’ positions are strong , which will affect congressional and presidential elections in 2012 .
in fact , the republican party ’ s message to voters will be “ we won ’ t raise taxes , but the democrats will . ”
and the democrats will be charged , setting up “ we will not cut pensions and health care , but the republicans will . ”
both sides will stand in stark positions before the election , so the immediate shift to tax expenditures and future social security pension changes is unlikely .
but , for the same reason , i am optimistic about the stalemate after the election .
at that point , both republicans and democrats could accept reforms that must be rejected .
official analysis underestimates the impact of lower marginal tax rates on taxable income , but experience suggests that marginal tax rates would make taxpayers work more for their own purposes , rather than receive compensation in the form of additional compensation , and thus lower taxable income , thereby boosting taxable income .
cutting tax expenditures and lowering marginal tax rates can go a long way toward raising revenues by increasing income levels .
the current economic stalemate is dangerous , because financial markets are likely to react negatively and delay addressing the fiscal deficit , which means that the national debt will continue to rise .
i may be overly optimistic , but i believe that there is good reason to believe that the current budget impasse is intended to give election campaigns , and that the us political system will be highly effective when the election results were settled .
america ’ s election and the global economy
stanford – the united states ’ election is approaching , with president barack obama narrowly ahead of the republican challenger , massachusetts governor mitt romney , who still believes that us president and senate elections are far from lost , and the house is likely to remain in republican hands .
the difference between candidates is clear , and the impact on us economic policy and the global economy is significant , despite the president ’ s economic policies .
the main difference between the two candidates can be summed up :
point out .
obama has dramatically increased spending .
he may continue to implement temporary measures ( as milton friedman once observed , “ there is nothing more durable than the government ’ s temporary policies . ” ) ; doubling the government ’ s spending on green energy and the losers ; and massive cuts in defense spending .
romney , by contrast , favors limiting federal spending , from 24 % of gdp to 20 % of gdp and keeping the deficit at 4 % of gdp .
he wants private markets , not government , to choose business and technology winners .
democrats oppose most nondefense spending cuts , arguing that cutting spending would lead to a recession .
this is the strongest effect when spending cuts occur unexpectedly in a weak economy .
if the process of economic recovery is achieved during the years of economic recovery , such as romney ’ s plan , it could be expansionary .
the share of us federal spending , for example , fell by five percentage points between the mid-1980 ’ s and the late 1990 ’ s , and in recent decades canada , for example , has fallen even more – both economically strong and economically .
taxation .
obama will raise the top marginal tax rate for wages , capital gains , dividends , interest , and real estate , especially for higher-income individuals and small businesses .
but , in terms of personal or corporate income taxes , he has no comprehensive plan for reform .
romney , by contrast , will reduce the rate of us corporate tax rates to 25 % , to 25 % , and transform the tax base for us mncs from around the world to increase taxes .
he will also reduce the personal tax rate by 20 % , and by limiting tax deductions ( especially the tax deduction for the very top , which could raise the amount of tax revenue that amounts to a high level of full employment ) to offset declining incomes .
obama , by contrast , will widen the deficit – his spending increase far more than the planned tax increase – implying a massive tax increase in the future .
moreover , obama ’ s tax rate will be far higher than romney ’ s , owing to the welfare benefits of debt .
welfare .
obama has remained silent on medicare and social security , and the long-term deficit is a several times the national debt .
vice president joe biden even said that the social security program “ will not change . ”
romney has supported gradual increases in retirement taxes , a model for medicare , and the elimination of medicaid ( for health care for the poor ) to the states by eliminating medicaid .
obama ’ s campaign approach is to attack romney ’ s medicare program , while romney ’ s strategy is to attack obama ’ s refusal to discuss the issue or even a draft solution .
some observers believe that obama ’ s unspoken plan is to pay for a growing welfare bill with european-style value-added taxes .
trade .
obama is the first us president to take the lead in global trade liberalization for a long time .
the doha round of world trade talks remains stalled , and has delayed three 自他 bilateral free-trade agreements that have been signed since the signing of the white house .
romney is a proponent of free trade , but it also expressed a tougher stance on china ’ s trade practices and monetary policy .
regulation .
obama wants to expand the federal mandate further ( though the courts have already suspended some of his extension of regulatory power ) .
romney ’ s approach is balanced by economic balance , and will reform obama ’ s main health , environmental , and financial services .
appointed .
every us president appoints thousands of officials , many of them empowered .
romney claims that he would not appoint bernanke for the fed ’ s chairman , the possible candidate , to include economists , such as lee 巴德 , mankiw , john taylor , and feldstein .
other presidential appointees have a major impact on businesses , industries , and even the entire economy .
obama , for example , has attempted to block boeing ’ s expansion in south carolina , despite the state ’ s 神秘 “ right to work ” legislation .
these policies will affect us economic growth , budget deficits , national saving , and thus global trade and capital flows .
obama ’ s deficits will be higher than romney , so the us will need capital from europe , latin america , and asia , while the increase in taxes and debt would impede us economic growth , thereby undermining the region ’ s exports .
obama will put the us on the road to european-style social-welfare states ; romney ’ s proposal is to prevent it .
regardless of who wins , the fiscal cliff will be the year of the end of 2012 .
the previous legislation , if not reversed , would lead to sudden , large-scale tax increases and spending cuts , which would likely lead to a recession in 2013 .
the election after the election will inevitably be as lame-duck , though it would be difficult to bridge the major differences between the republicans and the democrats on taxes and spending .
uncertainty is plaguing europe ’ s fiscal , and china is experiencing a slowdown , if the us economy is stagnating or even recession .
but to stop this , the presidential election will require a strong leader .
america ’ s exceptional fiscal conservatism
washington , dc – in most countries , the “ fiscal conservatives ” means that you worry about budget deficits and debt levels , and place such problems at the top of the policy agenda .
today , in many eurozone countries , “ fiscal conservatives ” are a powerful grouping , insisting that governments raise revenue , while controlling spending .
in the united kingdom , the ruling conservative party recently demonstrated a willingness to tax and limit future spending .
here , the us is very different .
in the united states , political leaders claiming to be “ fiscal conservatives ” – for example , the republican party ’ s vision of a common presidential candidate , mitt ryan , who challenges the november election – focus more on cutting taxes , regardless of the impact on the federal deficit and the debt level .
why is america ’ s fiscal conservatives largely unconcerned with their counterparts in other countries , compared to their counterparts in other countries ?
not always .
eisenhower rejected this advice , partly because he did not like and trust nixon , but mainly because he thought that he had a budget close to the successor .
after the collapse of the international monetary system in 1971 , the framework for us macroeconomic policy changed dramatically .
the us can no longer sustain the fixed exchange rate between the us dollar and gold , which was the cornerstone of the post-war bretton woods system .
the arrangement collapsed because the us is no longer willing to tighten monetary policy and adopt a tougher fiscal policy : it is understandable that , for president richard nixon , pleasing us voters is more important than maintaining a global exchange-rate system .
ironically , however , the end of the bretton woods system did not destabilize the dollar in international dominance , effectively increasing the use of the dollar in the world .
over the past four decades , talk and behavior about the dollar ’ s decline have been legion , but the fact is that dollar assets held by foreigners are now much larger than they were in 1971 .
this is a double-edged sword , because it has led the us to focus on fiscal accounts .
now that foreigners hold roughly half of the us federal government ’ s debt , they are willing to hold their holdings , even if the return on the dollar is low ( and the dollar ’ s depreciation ) .
in fact , whenever the world is less stable , investors will be willing to hold more dollars – even if they are the source of the united states .
when the big banks in the united states are in trouble or in america ’ s troubled public finances , global investors rush to buy us treasury securities .
last year ’ s congress ’ s great battle for the federal debt ceiling led to the loss of the united states ’ s triple-a sovereignty rating , but the federal government ’ s borrowing costs are lower today than they were then .
what do the us use to do so – perhaps the lowest-cost financing in human history ?
nothing can be done if you are from productive investment , strengthening education , or maintaining basic infrastructure .
but the us has done much to increase the share of consumption from tax cuts to increase the share of consumption relative to income and to reducing government revenue relative to spending .
this is the last legacy of the “ temporary ” tax cuts adopted by george w. bush ’ s administration in the early 2000s .
the american political mindset has changed dramatically , both on the left and on the right , as a mere distraction or a former vice president , dick cheney , as “ reagan taught us that the deficit is not the problem , ” he argued .
the tea party members of ryan and the republican party undoubtedly want to cut the size of the federal government , and they have been in exchange for decades .
in the short run , however , their promises are mainly tax cuts : their entire practical planning is a promising plan to move forward .
their calculation is that , politically , it will be popular , and , at the same time , that would make it easier to implement additional spending cuts ( less obvious ) .
the vulnerability caused by higher public debt in the coming decades is completely absent from their concerns .
for example , ryan supported george w. bush ’ s spending spree .
he also supports spending on defense spending ( close ) to the current level , which rejects the cuts in defense spending under the 2011 budget .
their assumption – and it is questionable – is that , in the foreseeable future , the us can still sell a number of treasury bonds at very low interest rates .
in other countries , no fiscal conservatives are willing to gamble with such high stakes .
america ’ s failed militarized foreign policy
many of today ’ s wars – including afghanistan , ethiopia , iran , iraq , pakistan , somalia , somalia , and sudan – have a fundamental problem in their conflicts .
all are poor , buffeted by natural disasters – especially floods , droughts , and earthquakes – and a rapidly growing population , with enormous pressure on land carrying the capacity to carry the land .
the share of young people is high , and the number of young people ( 15-24 years old ) is growing .
all of these problems can be addressed through long-term sustainable economic development .
it backs the ethiopian army in somalia .
it occupies iraq and afghanistan .
it threatens to bomb iran .
it supports pakistan ’ s military dictatorship .
none of this military action is aimed at resolving the conflict .
by contrast , us policy is usually fueling the current situation .
this military approach has brought america back to 自酿 .
it used to support shah iran ’ s shah in the form of a huge number of armaments , but it fell into iran ’ s “ revolutionary government ” after 1979 .
the us supported saddam hussein in his attack on iran until it ended up attacking saddam himself .
the us supported osama bin laden in afghanistan until he eventually became america ’ s rage .
since 2001 , the us provided pakistan with more than $ 10 billion in aid to pakistan , and now is a crumbling regime .
the reason why us foreign policy is so ineffective is that it has been controlled by the military .
even postwar reconstruction under the us occupation was dominated by the pentagon rather than by civilian organizations .
america ’ s military budget dominates all aspects of foreign policy .
the united states will spend roughly $ 800 billion this year on security , while the combined budget of the pentagon , iraq , and afghanistan , homeland security , nuclear armament programs , and the state department ’ s military assistance program will be roughly $ 800 billion .
in a paper about the bush administration ’ s aid to pakistan , craig cohen and Derek Chollet have revealed the disastrous nature of this militarized approach – even before the recent crackdown on musharraf ’ s regime .
although pakistan is facing a huge poverty , demography , and the environment , 75 million people still go to the palestinian military , to be paid to the pakistani army ’ s contribution to the “ war on terror ” and help its purchases of F16 aircraft and other weapons systems .
another 16 % went straight into pakistan ’ s budget , and the specific 去向不明 .
there are less than 10 % for development and humanitarian aid .
annual us aid for education in pakistan has amounted to $ 64 million , and $ 1.16 per school-aged child .
the authors also argued that “ pakistan ’ s strategic direction was originally set by a narrow circle of the bush administration , which is at the heart of war , not pakistan . ”
they also stressed that “ america ’ s engagement with pakistan is highly militarized and centralized , with almost nothing close to the broader population of pakistan . ”
they cite bush ’ s words : “ when [ musharraf ] follows my eyes ... i would not have a taliban and no al qaeda . ”
this militarized approach is transforming the world into an endless conflict and conflict .
any new us weapons system , “ sold ” or given to the region , would increase the likelihood of war and further military coups , and would increase the chances that such weapons would be used to deal with the us itself .
they have nothing to do with addressing important issues : poverty in pakistan ’ s northwest province , darfur , or somalia ’ s poverty , child mortality , water scarcity , and a lack of livelihood means .
these regions face a serious threat of insufficient rainfall and degradation .
naturally , many join radical groups .
the bush administration failed to recognize the challenge of these demographic and environmental challenges , and 800 billion spending spending won ’ t deliver irrigation to afghanistan , pakistan , sudan , and somalia .
only when americans and their allies begin to look at the question of the problem , and recognize that today ’ s conflicts originated in despair , can we have a more peaceful world , not war .
if we notice that listening to president john f. kennedy in a few months before the assassination , we would be able to get peace – he said , “ because , ultimately , we all have the most basic common connection to the planet ; we all breathe the same air ; we all have our cake . ”
“ we ’ re not . ”
america ’ s financial leviathan
berkeley – in 1950 , the united states ’ financial and insurance industry accounted for 2.8 % of gdp in 1950 .
in 1960 , that share had risen to 3.8 % , and reached 6 % in 1990 .
today , the figure is 8.4 % , and has not fallen .
the wall street journal ’ s · 报道 reports that , in 2010 , the share exceeded its 2006 peak .
lahart continues to point out that the increase in financial and insurance as a share of the economy is “ largely not a bad thing ... ” that enables capital flows to help the economy grow .
but , if the us is paying an extra $ 750 billion per year from the extra money that the us pays for finance and insurance – accounting for 5.6 % of gdp , it receives an estimated $ 7,500 per year from those who pay directly for useful goods and directly supplying useful services .
at the rate of real interest rates on venture cash flows , the share of resources that will take place in this year is taking place from directly available goods and services , which means that the resources would boost annual economic growth by 0.3 % – or by 25 % over a generation .
the past generations have experienced several shocks to the us economy , and many factors are added to economic growth .
but there is no obvious evidence that if the 系统 system maintains its level in 1950 , without explosive growth in the past 20 years , the us economy today is 6 % lower than it is now .
there are five ways to benefit from well-functioning finance-insurance systems .
one is that people stopped being hit by the fires , floods , diseases , unemployment , business closures , and the rise of the sector , owing to well-functioning financial - systems that would diffuse some of the risk , and those who are fearful of a risk .
to be sure , america ’ s current finance-insurance system is partly a better way to spread risk , but it is difficult to see whether it is actually true of stock and real-estate investors over the past two decades .
second , well-functioning financial systems match large-scale , liquid investment projects with the relatively small pools of money provided by individual savers who value liquidity .
over the past two generations , one important innovation has been made : businesses can now issue high-yield bonds .
but , given the costs of bankruptcy , firms like to issue high-yield bonds ( aside from the causes of the tax system ) , why investors like to buy high-yield bonds , and not yet have the means to buy and buy them , is not yet clear .
third , improved opportunities for borrowing allow people to spend more today ( more 穷时 ) in today ’ s ( 较富时 ) savings .
households have a clear increase in opportunities for borrowing , thanks to mortgage ownership , credit cards , and payday loans .
but what about them ?
many people are not buying more of their money and saving their ability to save , but instead buy temporary , without discussions with other family members .
and that is what you want to buy .
fourth , we have seen a dramatic improvement in the ease of transactions .
but , while electronic transactions have made a significant contribution to financial life , this should be accompanied by a decline in the share of gdp in finance , not rising , just as communications equipment should make phone calls reduced .
indeed , the operation of the financial system with the most progressive relationship has made a clear simplification , exemplified in the checks and balances of regional federal reserve banks .
finally , better finance means better corporate governance .
because shareholder democracy is not allowed to control its managers ’ obsolete 放任 , finance plays an important role in ensuring corporate managers ’ interests .
in general , however , however , we do not see obvious benefits , both in the medium and macro level , and the efficiency of the us economy has not increased to the extent that it can prove that it would be worth the equivalent of 5.6 % of gdp .
lahart cites the conclusion of thomas 菲力 of new york university that today ’ s us financial sector is too big to account for at least two percentage points of gdp .
and the estimate of the size of the us financial sector is likely to be underestimated .
why do the skills and entrepreneurship of the finance and insurance sectors produce no obvious economic dividends ?
there are two sustainable ways to make money in finance : finding people with risks , and to match them with those with risk , or find a risky figure to match them , and to match them with unidentified people .
can the answer to the growth of the financial industry come mainly from the professionals who are in the latter business or after the latter business ?
america ’ s fiscal isolationism
denver – patience is a virtue , but it is not so good in american foreign policy .
consider the “ long war , ” a remarkable concept that was used to describe the prolonged war with terrorism a few years ago , but it would be able to do so for years to come .
this concept is also a 承认 acknowledgement of the setbacks of expectations ( as defense secretary donald rumsfeld put it at the time ) .
in any case , the phrase told americans that americans were accustomed to waging decisive and decisive action ( which since vietnam has insisted since vietnam ) , a war of survival and struggle for survival is a long-term sacrifice .
its advocates also understood that the war is not just a weapon on arms , but an ongoing effort to destroy “ government , ” in their words , to destroy not only military or paramilitary entities , but also civilian institutions .
as it is daunting , its advocates need a sustainable political consensus to support it .
after all , the us has been attacked .
now , as us politicians grapple with the united states ’ ongoing federal budget debate , this consensus is no longer tenable .
the debate has shown that political elites differ on all spending packages , let alone the 劳师远 .
as a result , the basic condition will be questioned every step .
indeed , the current budget debate seems to be reopening old divisions about america ’ s view of itself and the world .
as a result , it is possible to have a vengeance , and even isolationism ( in the long run in the united states ) is likely .
america ’ s foreign policy has often fallen into isolationism , and isolationist elements include both the us and the us , which always believe that america is a global factor of instability .
but this time may be different from that of previous episodes , with the budget issue fueling bipartisan isolationism .
america ’ s fiscal crisis is profound , and it is not quite a matter of numbers .
the mood in washington , dc , suggests that aversion to tax increases is much higher than the current economic and employment performance .
to some extent , this represents a orthodoxy – a view that some call orthodox – that taxes are on the government , as 威士忌 威士忌 .
as ronald reagan told us , governments are not the solution , but the government itself .
this is bad news for us diplomacy .
politicians are reluctant to fund domestic plans for the sake of a “ long war , ” and the us diplomatic circle may neglect the relationship , but other americans will not .
according to opinion polls , americans are willing to maintain many “ discretionary ” domestic plans – schools , hospitals , transport infrastructure , leisure parks , and so forth – that the budget negotiations are now on the table .
in regions like rural el paso county , in the eastern plains of colorado , in the eastern plains of the federal budget , spending cuts have been on the agenda .
spending cuts are directly affecting el paso ’ s residents .
they ( and other americans who are losing their services ) will actually expect more tax revenues to finance new schools in afghanistan ?
not only are the us public schools becoming second-class , but so will us infrastructure , which has long been the pride of the american people .
today , how many travelers will draw up asia ’ s new and efficient airports , and the aging and inefficient 古董 of america ’ s major cities ?
the budget debate does not have any agreement on fixing the us infrastructure , but it is in the impression that afghanistan and pakistan are america ’ s core national interests .
why , one wonders , is afghanistan and iraq more important than those in colorado and california ?
in 2008 , us troops took the cost of transporting a tiger to baghdad .
the last time the us government did the same to us zoo ( except in washington , dc ) ?
how this debate ended will have profound implications for how the us has become itself in the world .
but this would also undermine the world ’ s response to the world ’ s fastest-growing export program – an initiative that provides advice .
there are many reasons for a country to accept others .
sometimes they respect the wisdom and insights ( which are rare in diplomacy ) .
sometimes they fear the consequences ( and the opinions they have to accept ) .
sometimes , as with a large number of us diplomatic exchanges , proposals for advice began to improve the door to improved relations , resulting in further aid .
in short , diplomacy – in particular , us diplomacy – is usually related to money .
but what about it ?
what would happen if americans resent cuts in the budgets of their neighborhoods , thereby refusing to pay for “ a long war ” ?
at that point , it may be : senior us officials arrived in a country , offering some advice , and find that they are not in the cards .
learning from the forgotten us default
los angeles – one of the most widespread myths about the united states is that the federal government has never defaulted on its debt .
with every congressional debate on debt , politicians and journalists stand to say that the us will not lose credibility to its creditors .
only one problem is not really .
a few decades ago , the us was once a “ banana republic ” rather than a advanced economy , and a unilateral and 性 restructuring of debt .
although few remember important times in economic history , it is valuable for today ’ s leaders .
in april 1933 , in order to help the us escape the great depression , president franklin roosevelt announced his intention to leave the us the gold standard and devalue the dollar .
but this is not as simple as fdr thought .
most debt contracts at the time included “ gold clauses , ” which stipulates that debtors must pay “ gold coins ” or “ gold equivalent . ”
these provisions were created during the civil war , in order to protect investors against possible inflation .
but for fdr , the gold clause was a barrier to the dollar ’ s depreciation .
to address this problem , congress adopted a joint resolution on june 5 , 1933 , to repeal all gold clauses in the past and the future .
the door to devaluation opened – and the door to political infighting opened .
republicans feel frustrated because america ’ s reputation is at risk , and the roosevelt administration believed that the resolution was not “ a denial of contracts . ”
on january 30 , 1934 , the dollar was officially devalued .
the price of gold rose from $ 20.67 a barrel – the price it entered into effect in 1834 – to $ 35 per ounce .
not surprisingly , holders of securities protected by the gold clause claim that this was unconstitutional .
this raises lawsuits , which eventually reached the supreme court ; in january 1935 , judges listened two cases related to private debt , two cases of government debt .
the underlying question in each case was the same : has congress changed its contracts retroactively and changed ?
on february 18 , 1935 , the supreme court announced its decision .
in each case , judges took the 投票 vote to vote for the government ’ s decisions against investors .
according to a majority of opinion , the roosevelt administration could be canceled by “ necessity , ” if that helped to lift the economy out of the great depression .
james 麦克 , a lawyer in the south in the us attorney general , as secretary of justice in president woodrow wilson ’ s first term , wrote a different opinion – all four different cases .
in a brief speech , he spoke about the inviolability of contracts , the government ’ s obligation , and the 赖账 of the law .
the united states has been a collective amnesia , given that most americans have forgotten this history , with a collective amnesia about the rule of law and contracts .
but a good lawyer still remembers ; today , a lawyer defending default countries , such as venezuela , would invoke 1935 .
as more governments face new debt crises – such as unfunded liabilities associated with pension and health-care obligations – we may be more likely to see this argument .
according to the latest estimates , the us government ’ s inability to pay amounts to more than 260 % of gdp – not a conventional federal debt and a state or state debt that is unable to pay .
this problem extends beyond the us ; many countries ’ pension and health-related liabilities are increasing , and the ability to cover these debts is diminishing .
the key question , therefore , is whether governments attempting to adjust contracts back on their contracts will again invoke “ necessity . ”
the 1933 abrogation of gold provides ample legal and economic grounds for considering this possibility .
the us supreme court has agreed to “ necessity . ”
it is not far-fetched to think that it will again do so again .
america ’ s 变疯
boston – in recent years , the relative global decline of the united states has become a common subject of debate .
proponents of the post-american argument include the 2008 financial crisis and the subsequent recession and the steady rise of china .
most of them are international relations experts , from a standpoint of economic competitiveness to a geopolitics of the global order to imagine a global order that will necessarily mean the other side ’ s decline .
but a fully focused focus on economic indicators has not noticed the geopolitical impact of a us domestic trend – a trend that is already high in the united states ( which has remained high for years ) , but the debate often is another expert .
the prevalence of severe mental illness has reached a level of “ pandemic disease , ” so we often hear that it is so .
but international politics , diagnosed with disorders suffering from bipolar depression , and schizophrenia , is extremely serious .
in fact , the most common among these diseases – a one-way depression from symptoms – is the most complex , but it is also the most lethal : 20 % of depressed patients are expected to commit suicide .
but both depressive disorder and schizophrenia are psychotic , characterized by the inability of patients to control their actions and ideas , and that patients can not be treated as agents of free will .
indulging in suicidal thinking and lack of motivation makes depression a psychotic illness .
these conditions are often accompanied by elaborate delusions – that is , confusing the reality of information from the information and the information provided by outsiders .
normally , the distinction between symbols and their 意象 will disappear , and patients are starting to view people as mere objects of thought .
to put it mildly , the judgment of such people is unacceptable .
a massive statistical study by the us national institute of mental health ( NIMH ) in 2001 estimated that the lifetime prevalence of severe depression in the united states ( 15-64 years old ) was more than 16 % .
lifetime prevalence for schizophrenia is about 1.7 % .
these chronic diseases do not have known treatments ; the first episode , before the age of 18 , is likely to continue until the end of the patient ’ s life .
surveys of the us university show that 20 % of respondents in 2010 were in depression and anxiety criteria , and 25 % in 2012 .
other studies also show that each generation ’ s rates are increasing , and some argue that if the old statistics are wrong , they are wrong to underestimate the prevalence of mental illness .
all of this suggests that as many as 20 % of american adults may be mentally ill .
from the debate on the importance of available data , we assume that only 10 % of american adults are mentally ill .
assuming that these symptoms are evenly distributed among populations , they are bound to suffer a large share of policymakers , corporate executives , 教育家 , and military personnel at all levels , with mental illness producing a delusion that can not be judged properly .
if this situation is called a scary sense , it would be a matter of a small proportion : a larger proportion of the population ( an estimated 50 % ) is affected by poorer disorders , which are only occasional disturbances .
epidemiologists have repeatedly noticed that these diseases have marked a marked feature : only western countries ( or , more accurately , a society with a 一神论 tradition ) , especially in the prosperous west , are so prevalent .
the national team in south asia is particularly immune to severe mental illness ; in other regions , poverty or underdevelopment may seem to be a protective barrier .
in my recent book thinking , modernity , and the gospel of modernity , the reason why i have serious mental illness is the west ’ s nature in the west .
the “ virus ” at the root of depression and schizophrenia ( including smaller forms ) is rooted in culture : these social alternatives are difficult to define and personal identities , so that many people have lost their way .
the us offers the most widely defined personal self-definition ; there is also the world ’ s biggest lack of choice .
unless the growing prevalence of severe mental illness is taken seriously and addressed effectively , it will be the only indicator of american leadership .
china ’ s rise is irrelevant .
obama ’ s botched foreign policy
paris – after a presidential term in the united states , assessing his foreign-policy performance is a challenge , because every us president faces complex diplomatic and strategic conditions and a severe domestic constraint .
nonetheless , in november ’ s presidential election , the forces driving obama ’ s foreign policy and assessing his foreign-policy performance remain important .
in his first term , obama fulfilled his pledge to withdraw from iraq .
but such action is a strategic failure , because it greatly weakened america ’ s political influence in iraq .
indeed , prime minister nouri al-maliki ’ s government is moving toward an alliance with iran .
obama , who opposed the iraq war , should not be a scapegoat for the status quo in iraq .
instead , obama expanded the war in afghanistan ( which he thought is a war ) , and forced the taliban to take the defensive .
but the us will begin to withdraw its troops after 2014 , while the political solution to its interests is not .
at the same time , america ’ s strategic partnership with pakistan ( in this regard , obama ended osama bin laden and won an important symbolic victory ) .
us-pakistan relations have regressed to their level before september 11 , 2001 , with mutual distrust preventing both countries from working together .
in fact , he has barely made any significant political gains in the us security strategy that obama inherited , including north korea , iraq , afghanistan , pakistan , and the israeli-palestinian conflict .
while obama ’ s response to the arab spring has been clever – the only strategic surprise that he faces as president – his credibility in the muslim world has declined steadily .
he failed to deliver on the important promise of cairo ’ s speech in 2009 : “ the new relationship between the us and the muslim world . ”
moreover , obama ’ s efforts to improve relations with russia – reflected in the strategic arms ban treaty – did not make the relationship really “ reset ” in the bilateral relationship , owing largely to the growing distrust of russia as an enemy .
the us-china relationship is backsliding , with the us seeking to contain china ’ s strategic rise , such as through regional trade agreements and increasing military presence in asia .
on multilateral issues , obama ’ s performance is equally unimpressive .
he promised 17 % of the greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020 , and he claims that he will not tolerate inaction in the area , but he no longer mentions the issue after the republicans ’ victory in the 2010 midterm elections .
similarly , domestic pressure has forced obama to neglect trade issues .
the us is responsible for the failure of the doha round of global trade talks .
one of obama ’ s major foreign-policy breakthroughs has been the liberating of the us from the “ global war on terror . ”
by abandoning the manichean rhetoric of “ war , ” the us regained the political legitimacy that former president george w. bush had lost , without reducing his strategic credibility .
after the vietnam war , jimmy carter hoped to make a breakthrough in established us policies .
but his administration ’ s actions – including major mistakes in iran and afghanistan – have made the us weak and indecisive .
obama ’ s policies , while failing to weaken america ’ s international standing , have failed to deliver anything that is comparable to nixon ’ s relations with china , largely owing to the pragmatic pragmatism underlying obama ’ s foreign policy – the emphasis on avoiding the worst outcomes .
moreover , obama faces major constraints , including the global economic crisis , domestic political polarization , hostile congress , and the need for the us to accept the rise of the us-led emerging powers .
as a result , obama has failed to reconcile strategic realities by , say , by , say , equating the united states with iran ’ s broader interests , pakistan ( and 敌亦友 ) , and israel ( key ally ) .
to be sure , obama ’ s diplomatic and strategic environment is more complicated than nixon in the 1970s .
the instability in iran ’ s internal coalition has shaped any meaningful negotiation between the us and iran , and pakistan ’ s political fragmentation has also impeded pakistan ’ s policy of pakistani policy .
the fragility of israel ’ s ruling coalition , together with strong support for prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’ s prime minister binyamin netanyahu , has made it difficult for the us to influence israel ’ s policies , despite its significant influence on america ’ s arab policy .
but obama has yet to offer the terms of a possible grand bargain .
any deal with iran would have to be agreed by israel and the gulf states , and both are different .
the us is unlikely to agree with pakistan without an agreement with pakistan , and whether india will agree is not in the us , especially if the us relies on india to counterbalance china ’ s influence in asia .
israel , for its part , seems to be simpler : as a exchange of security guarantees for the us , israel will accept the 1967 borders in the palestinian borders .
but israel is also one of america ’ s main domestic political issues ; indeed , any move away from israel is unacceptable to most americans .
although obama ’ s first term is not a disappointment , his achievements – though not trivial – are very limited .
america ’ s groucho marxists
london – groucho marx has always been my favorite marxist .
one of his 笑料 道破 , the ideological ideology of the so-called 教条化 , has failed , and the belief that he was being exploited by karl marx , the man of his 同族 , is suffering .
“ don ’ t you , groucho once asked , “ is i , or your own eyes ? ”
for hundreds of thousands of citizens living in twentieth-century countries , “ i ” were a dictator who uses authoritarian or authoritarian power to rule the rule of power .
your own eyes are not important , and you must accept the world as what they are saying .
the ruling party says what it is , and that is the reality .
in china , mao ’ s designated successor , the emperor , puts this view at the very least : he was known as a “ 主义者 . ”
the chinese communist party ( ccp ) and the people are bent on what mao instructed to do .
the 而格鲁乔则 answer to this “ 主义者 ” raises two difficult questions : first , your two eyes and sanity are certain to tell you that , like the “ death of the state ” and the communist idyll of conquest , the communist idyll of the state will never arrive .
communism , like the horizon , is always out of reach .
and it would be interesting to see how many people in beijing – the chinese communist party ’ s primary educational institution – will be confident that a country ’ s “ 中国 ” is about to die as a country ’ s form of extinction .
the second manifestation of groucho ’ s conundrum is that most of the communist countries quickly discovered that their loss of freedom did not cause more prosperity or higher living standards .
the more people live in russia , poland , the czech republic , and other socialist countries , the more they question the lifestyles of their social systems .
in his book the fall and fall of communism , the communist fall and fall of communism wrote how foreign visits opened mikhail gorbachev ’ s eyes to the failure of the social system that he found his life .
as a result , in political terms , reason has triumphed over the belief that the pursuit of a distant goal has been overcome , and defeat the self-defeating acts of the pursuit of certain rights .
while authoritarian parties such as china and vietnam have survived , this is not through the creation of communist communism , but by state-led capitalism .
and , in the case of democracies , the people can use their own sanity , and they can make choices on their watch .
when you don ’ t like the government , you can pull the rascals out without overthrowing the entire polity .
change is incremental , not a revolution .
but one should not assume that political debate in a democratic country is always based on reason , or that democracy is bound to make people more rational .
sometimes rational reason does win , just as the recent election in india ; the election of us president barack obama is certainly a noble moment .
yet , in the current debate about america ’ s health-care reform , reason seems not to be a cheap one .
outsiders , even admirers , often feel that the world ’ s most globalized countries , one of the world ’ s most globalized countries , can be so parochial and irrational in some respects .
us gun law , we have confused , has been shocked by president george w. bush ’ s hostility to science in his first term , such as his 顽固不化 of climate change and darwin ’ s theory of evolution .
the opposition to health-care reform has also raised the same confusion .
in addition to its great wealth , the united states ’ health-care system is very bad : it is extraordinarily expensive and expensive to pay for health insurance .
the poor lack protection , and many diseases are not guaranteed .
overall , health statistics in the us are far worse than others .
some say that his proposals mean that the state is killing the elderly .
the government ’ s health-care system , which is provided by states with financial support , would be equal to the introduction of the soviet communist party – like that of canada and the united kingdom .
so , did the move in toronto and london come under the shadow of communism ?
or is it creating a better , economically affordable , and trusted health-care system ?
in the us today , reason seems to be struggling .
perhaps such a country can be nurtured only by such a country that is deeply thought to be able to think deeply about it .
what is certain , however , is that a society ’ s problems , such as those of vulnerable groups such as the people , must be careful and thoughtful , based on the eyes of people ’ s eyes , rather than those of the ignorant partisan bias .
枪管 after newtown
new york – the killing of 20 children , the killing of seven adults in newtown , connecticut , and , as citizens , must be responsive .
the us seems to be caught in a mass of mass shootings , with almost every month together .
in the us , it is easy to get a gun , leading to higher murder rates in the us than in other highly educated societies .
the us must find a better way .
other countries have already found such a path .
between the mid-1970 ’ s and the mid-1990 ’ s , australia witnessed mass shootings .
after the extraordinary killing of 1996 , the new prime minister , john howard , declared that enough was enough .
he has a serious crackdown on gun ownership , forcing would-be gun owners to take a rigorous application process , and must demonstrate the reason for a gun .
today , australia ’ s gun conditions are very strict , and the registration and approval processes are long for a year or more .
and howard ’ s government implemented a rigorous “ repo ” policy that allowed the government to purchase a gun that has been owned by the public .
this policy worked .
despite the failure of crime in australia , the murder has fallen , and , more important , the number of mass shootings that have not occurred since 1996 , or more than three or more of the number of deaths ( which were defined in many studies ) since 1996 .
in the run-up to the shooting , 13 years of mass killing in australia occurred .
but , in the us , despite a series of mass shootings this year , people have refused to take action : the massacre of the massacre in colorado , 密尔沃基 neighborhoods , and oregon , and the number of cases preceded by the 血腥 massacre of student and 教工 .
gun lobbyists are still powerful in the us , and politicians are afraid to offend them .
in 2011 , the shooting of 国会议员 gabrielle giffords made politicians even fearful of being targets .
there is no doubt that some societies are more violent than others , even if they control obvious factors such as income levels and education .
the us homicide rate is roughly four times comparable to western european societies , while the homicide rate in latin america is higher than in the us ( much higher than in asia ) .
what explains the high rates of homicide rates in the us and latin america ?
america ’ s violence has its roots .
the us and latin american countries are “ conquest ” societies , with many ethnic societies ruled by europeans .
in the us and many latin american countries , slaveholding fueled mass violence .
slaves – and their descendants – are often murdered .
the us also has a strong populist belief that gun ownership is essential to resistance to tyranny .
the us was born in the process of civil disobedience to british imperial hegemony .
civil-society groups ’ resistance to the tyranny of the tyranny has thus become a fundamental idea of the founding of the american state , enshrined in the second amendment of the us constitution , and the second amendment , because the country needs to govern militarily , has the right to weapons .
citizens ’ militias have become obsolete , so gun ownership , which now bans the second amendment , is only personal gun ownership , as if it can provide protection against tyranny .
the reckless supreme court is on the side of the gun .
so gun ownership is closely linked to the american sub-culture , a large-scale gun gun .
but , rather than being protected by freedom , americans are now experiencing massive bloodshed and panic .
the claim that gun ownership ensures freedom is particularly absurd – and the world ’ s vibrant democracies have long since removed private gun ownership .
no tyrant has emerged in australia after howard ’ s gun-control reforms .
in short , freedom of the twenty-first century does not depend on unregulated gun ownership .
indeed , america ’ s gun culture is a threat to freedom – in recent decades , for the president , senator , and public leaders , and countless assassination officials .
but us gun culture remains pervasive and few reports .
with the us shooting a shooting disaster in one of the next , and in almost every shooting , politicians would vow to continue to fight unchecked gun support .
indeed , no one knows how many guns americans have .
the number of guns is estimated to be 2.7 million , on average .
according to a recent poll , 47 % of households are hiding their houses at home .
the shooting in newtown is not only terrible , but also a reflection of an increasingly common pattern – a particular type of murderous suicide that psychologists and psychiatrists have studied .
the lonely – often with paranoid tendencies – is part of a suicidal process .
they have carefully planned and implemented mass massacres of innocent people , aimed at reprisal , and then 光荣 themselves .
perpetrators are not hardened criminals ; many have no criminal record .
they are pathetic , deranged , and often struggle to struggle with them .
they need help – and society needs to move away from them .
over the past 30 years , the us has already experienced 30 mass shootings , including 12 times this year ; every attack has left many families in tragedy .
and each time , gun ownership has been 叫嚣 , and freedom will be denied if they can not buy offensive weapons .
the bloodbath in newtown is an excellent opportunity to stop this gun frenzy .
australia and other countries set a model for the us : regulate and limiting gun ownership and a gun .
america ’ s real freedoms depend on sensible public policies .
new york – the 2008 financial crisis heralded the end of our familiar global order .
in the run-up to the g-8 summit , we have not noticed the fact that , for the first time in 70 years , the us will not be able to implement the international agenda and the world ’ s most pressing problems .
indeed , america ’ s refusal to do so in saving the eurozone , intervening in syria , and using military force to address iran ’ s nuclear problem ( though israel strongly supports it ) has already signaled its role abroad .
president barack obama officially ended the war in iraq , and is withdrawing from afghanistan – an effort that can be saved only by controlling the pace of its withdrawal .
the us is handing over the leadership baton – though no country or country is willing or able to muster it .
in short , america ’ s foreign policy may be as positive as it once was , but it is also declining , and it is increasingly difficult to sustain its primacy .
as a result , many global challenges – climate change , trade , resource scarcity , international security , cyber-warfare , nuclear proliferation , and so forth – will be bound to intensify .
welcome to the g-zero world , a more volatile and uncertain environment , and the coordination of global policy issues has been thrown aside .
the irony , ironically , is that the new environment in which the us has turned into trouble has given the us a fresh opportunity to use its unique status .
the g-zero world is not a bad thing for the us – as long as the us has a good cards .
in such a world , many remaining powers will play a more important role , and the us remains the only real superpower and the largest economy , more than twice the size of china ’ s .
us defense spending has almost half the global total , and more than the subsequent 17 countries combined .
the dollar remains the world ’ s reserve currency , with investors flocking to us treasury bills in 2008 , suggesting that the us still has a safe haven ( though the us was the beginning of the crisis ) .
likewise , the us continues to lead in entrepreneurship , research and development , higher education , and technological innovation .
moreover , the us is now the world ’ s largest natural-gas exporter and exporter of heat , reducing the price shock or food shortages for the us .
no country can match the us in promoting the rule of law , liberal democracy , transparency , and free enterprise .
while other countries clearly support these values , only the us has been willing and strong enough to ensure that these values are pursued .
as a result , as america ’ s global leadership shrinks , it will find itself more popular .
consider asia ’ s economic strength , as well as its regional influence , with its neighbors seeking to pursue deep cooperation with the us .
japan , australia , indonesia , and 台湾地区 have both recently engaged closely with the us concerning trade and security issues .
even myanmar began to stumble toward the us , resuming diplomatic relations with the us and trying to escape china ’ s shadow .
in other words , in the g-zero world , an increasingly combustible international environment has made the us more appealing to countries that want to take bets on their own interests .
weakening the leadership role enabled the us to weigh opportunity before action , and to choose the best issues and the environment , in which the military intervention in libya and syria is far from certain .
the extent to which the us can capitalize on these opportunities remains to be seen .
in fact , america ’ s short-term advantages are the obstacles to its long-term prospects .
let ’ s call this the “ safe haven ” : as long as the us remains the safest safe haven for any storm , it has no incentive to fix its weaknesses soon .
for example , all references to the us national debt say that investors will continue to lend to the us .
in the long run , however , us policymakers must make real progress in restoring confidence in their national finances , by cutting spending on politically immovable programs like social security , health care , and defense .
officials must abandon short-sighted and political correctness , improve america ’ s aging infrastructure , reform its education and immigration system , and pursue long-term fiscal consolidation .
but it is this 超然 that eliminates the risks of creating disastrous consequences , thereby keeping the us happy .
america ’ s politicians should recognize the g-zero reality , and restore america ’ s powerful sources of strength , even if only gradual progress is gradually progressive .
america ’ s political system often works well in the crisis , but , because the us has some residual advantages in the absence of a leader , it does not need a crisis to stimulate action .
it needs only to seize the g-zero moment .
america ’ s housing crisis
sometimes it is time for some to prove that there is no pleasure .
for the last few years , i have long argued that the us economy was propped up by housing bubbles , which replaced the stock market bubble of the 1990 ’ s .
but no bubble can expand indefinitely .
with middle-class incomes in the us stagnating , americans can not afford increasingly expensive homes .
as president of the us council of economic advisers , one of my predecessors famously said , “ it won ’ t be sustained . ”
compared to those who live in the stock market , economists never claim to be able to predict when the day when the reckoning will arrive , let alone what the event will bring down the housing market .
but some signs are systemic , and the consequences are manifest over time .
there are macro and micro reasons .
the macro-story is simple but dramatic .
some observed that the sub-prime market collapses : “ don ’ t worry , this is the problem of the real estate sector . ”
but it ignores the role of housing markets in the us in recent years , when direct investment in real estate and investment in real estate flows from the housing market to three-quarters of the economy has grown to three-quarters .
the spike in housing prices gave americans confidence and money to spend more than they do .
america ’ s household saving rate has fallen at its lowest point since the great depression , not negative .
as higher interest rates hold down home prices , the game is over .
when america ’ s saving rate is 4 % ( which is still low in general ) , aggregate aggregate demand will weaken , with the economy weakening .
the micro-story is more dramatic .
record-low interest rates in 2001 , 2002 , 2003 did not lead americans to invest more in enthusiasm – excess capacity .
instead , the mentality of earning money induced households to refinance their mortgages and spend part of their capital in order to stimulate the us economy .
it is one thing to invest in investment , which strengthens our balance sheets ; but it is another thing to spend money on vacation and madness .
and that is precisely what alan greenspan encouraged americans to do .
when ordinary loans do not meet demand , he encouraged americans to engage in variable exchange rates – periods that keep pace with interest rates .
greedy lenders , then , have introduced negative amortization loans ( wages ) , so that borrowers ’ liabilities have gone back home .
at some point in the future , it will be higher , but borrowers will once again be told , not worried : rising house prices will rise faster , and so it is easy to borrow a negative amortization loan .
( in this view , only those who do not ) can not benefit .
the reality is grim : newspapers report a case in which borrowers ’ total income is not repaid .
globalization means that america ’ s lending problem has had a worldwide impact .
the first hit was the british mortgage bank northern rock .
the us has succeeded in throwing billions of dollars out of bad loans to investors worldwide ( including banks ) .
they buried these bad debts through sophisticated financial instruments , buried so deep so that no one knew exactly how bad these bad debts were , and that no one can quickly 定价 them .
in the face of such uncertainty , markets froze .
financiers who believe in free-market principles are temporarily leaving their beliefs behind .
they say that , for everyone ’ s greater wellbeing , of course , the government has saved it .
although the us treasury and the international monetary fund have warned of the risks of bailout bailouts in east asia , which had faced financial crises a decade ago and advised to do not raise interest rates , the us has bought massive ( bad ) loans , acquiring massive ( bad ) loans , and reduced interest rates .
but lower short-term interest rates have led to higher medium-term interest rates , which may be more relevant to the mortgage market , owing to fears about inflationary pressures .
central banks ’ purchases of mortgage-backed securities in order to increase market liquidity may have played a role , as central banks ( or the major us governments hold loans to the us federal mortgage service ) .
but those who share the securities should provide a guarantee that the public should not pay for their bad investment decisions .
the equity owners of banks should not be allowed to get a free ride .
securitization is in sharing risk , but there are three problems that make it unacceptable .
while this means that the us banks are not hit by the worst , america ’ s non-performing loans have already had a global impact .
moreover , securitization contributed to bad loans : in the past , banks with non-performing loans have gone awry ; but , in a new world of securitization , bad debts could be passed onto others .
( as economists do , the problem of asymmetric information is more severe . )
in the past , when borrowers discovered that they can not afford their repayment , mortgage lending will be from new combinations ; foreclosures are bad for both sides .
securitization made debt restructuring difficult ( if not impossible ) .
the victims of predatory lenders are those who need governments to help .
debt restructuring is less easy when mortgages reach 95 % or more of their homes .
individuals who need to give excessive debt , such as through a special bankruptcy provision , allowed them to regain 75 % of their assets in real estate , while lenders would incur the cost .
the us and the rest of the world should learn from many of the lessons ; above all , more stringent regulation of the financial sector , particularly better protection and greater transparency for predatory lenders .
america ’ s interest-rate puzzle
america ’ s long-term real interest rate has been low , and this is a major feature of the world economy today .
now , the us current account deficit has reached 7 % of gdp , and , as i have learned from traditional macroeconomists like me , would inevitably follow a large currency devaluation .
so we predict a significant decline in the premium on us interest rates .
if the dollar falls 20 % against the euro sometime over the next decade , long-term interest rates in the us will be 20 percentage points higher than the euro .
if the dollar falls 40 % against the yen sometime in the next decade , long-term us interest rates will be four percentage points higher than japan ’ s .
but there are no signs of this .
it is puzzling not only that long-term interest rates are too low internationally , but also in the us .
the bush administration did not have any plans to 割开 the blood vessels that the middle medieval economic policy 割开 , arguing that , as long as the government is bleeding , it can address all economic problems .
this means that , unless the us domestic deposit rate is rising sharply , and that , until 2010 , investment spending remains dysfunctional , with investment spending falling at a time when the current-account deficit is reduced to a sustainable level , and when prices are low , prices will rise , and prices will rise when demand falls .
in this case , the price of loanable funds is equal to real interest rates .
if interest rates are expected to rise at a higher rate sometime in the next decade , they would mean higher interest rates on long-term bonds .
but financial markets did not depreciate the dollar , and the corresponding us interest rate is rising .
when our fellow macroeconomists and wall street friends talk about it , they find it difficult to understand what they are not thinking .
on the contrary , they do not understand why , in our eyes , us long-term interest rates are worrisome .
they argue that the current high demand for dollar-denominated securities is easy to explain : central asia ’ s central banks are buying on their own currencies , and the us treasury is now investing in short-term bonds ( and thus not issuing a large amount of long-term bonds ) , and it will not lead to a large number of long-term bonds .
but every price of the market has gone away , generating lucrative opportunities : if long-term interest rates were indeed too low , the long-term bond price of long-term bonds will be invested somewhere in another , waiting for the bond price to be diverted to fundamentals .
thus , they can push prices close to fundamentals today .
on wall street ’ s friends , the opposite is said : if any financial institution is serious , and even borrowing to bet on a sharp decline in the dollar in the next five years , the iaea would face an existential crisis .
and trades do go wrong : remember the collapse of us companies in long-term capital management .
there are also big players in financial markets who are not concerned about maximizing their profits .
for example , if the bank of china and the us federal reserve decided to learn the lessons of speculators , driving up the dollar ’ s value relative to the renminbi , and keeping up the value of a month , they would be entirely likely to do so .
similarly , if any financial institution is serious , borrowing to bet on long-term interest rates in the next five years will be a high priority , and it is at risk of its own survival .
what are they to vote for ?
the real estate rents and the stock market are too low , and , if interest rates rise sharply , real estate and stock prices could fall , possibly equivalent to higher prices or higher prices .
only those who can afford long-term loans and lock up current real interest rates and invest in expanding their size can bet on domestic bets and bet on interest rates .
but us firms have seen future risks , and are constantly vigilant in keeping themselves at 套住 .
economists believe that market forces drive prices back to fundamentals .
but we tend not to be careful enough to distinguish between balance resilience and weak weakness .
only traders in wall street and elsewhere believe that , in the short run , holding dollars and long-term us treasury bonds will fall , and the us dollar will rise if long-term us interest rates rise .
in the long run , the future will be as high as it is now .
america ’ s islamist allies in convenience
new delhi – in just a decade , us military intervention has intervened in three muslim-majority countries and toppled their governments .
now , the coalition of american liberal interventionists and neoconservatives that launched these wars is pushing against punitive strikes against syria , and that they have largely strengthened the islamists and forged anti-americanism .
indeed , the last “ humanitarian intervention ” clearly backfired , turning syria into a bloody front of transnational forces .
by contrast , the desire to protect america ’ s “ credibility ” has become the last refuge of those seeking another war in the middle east .
if “ credibility ” is purged because of the debate and the real focus on america ’ s long-term interests , it is clear that a blow to syria will not produce even temporary geopolitical benefits .
looking beyond short-term perspective , this would have unintended consequences , potentially making syria a “ soft ” partition of iraq and a haven haven for extremists in northern syria and iraq , where the islamic state ’ s islamist forces are formed .
indeed , fighting syria is likely to make the us more dependent on the unpopular islamist rulers from saudi arabia to qatar and the united arab emirates .
some arab monarchs have pledged to fund us strikes – an investment that can easily be expected , because war rhetoric has already led to higher oil prices .
al qaeda has taken root in the middle east and north africa , creating the conditions for international terrorism in the coming years , which is an unintended consequence of us policy .
for example , america ’ s invasion and occupation of iraq opened doors to al qaeda , whose affiliates now represent a sunni and shia government .
likewise , regime change in libya has fueled a military presence with al qaeda , leading to the assassination of the american ambassador in benghazi .
a system based on islamic law has been established , and human-rights abuses are legion , weapons and armies have undermined the security of libya ’ s neighbors .
meanwhile , america ’ s support for the regime in yemen and saudi arabia has benefited al qaeda in the arabian peninsula .
in some parts of southern yemen , al Sharia , al-qaeda agencies , is de facto government .
in syria , a large number of territory is already under islamic law , and al qaeda ’ s al nusra front , the al nusra militia , has been in the grips of the us-backed free syrian army , which is feeling the consequences of the previous policy choices .
as it stands , airstrikes will undermine the fsa ’ s grassroots legitimacy and help islamist forces make matters worse .
in the east , the us wants to conclude a peace deal with the taliban , the main rival in afghanistan , to “ glorious ” out of the longest war in american history .
in the process of wooing the taliban , the taliban had already developed diplomatic relations with qatar – the legitimacy of the united states , which gave the us a sanctuary in the middle ages .
the us alliance with the islamic political forces and the government ’ s guiding doctrine is that islam ’ s garb helps to protect the credibility of leaders who might be seen as foreign warships .
this is a fundamental matter , even in the short term .
on the contrary , in egypt ’ s military , where the muslim brotherhood ’ s mohamed morsi came to power , many egyptians had long treated him as the architect of the us in cairo .
in the long run , the us is not , the risk is much – if it continues to support the oil sheikhs and from the philippines and india from the philippines and india to south africa and venezuela .
the united states , which supports islamic rulers , has moved toward the muslim killing of muslims from the maghreb and pakistan .
american policies are also fueling conflict between islamists and secular forces in muslim countries .
the best example is turkey , where obama has ignored prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan ’ s decision to destroy freedom of speech and make himself a reminder of the behavior of twenty-first-century sudan .
in turkey and other countries , the us , in a larger geopolitical goal of curbing shia iran and its regional allies , allowed sunni rulers to move toward religious and political extremes , even if they pose transnational threats to free and secular values .
moreover , conflicts within islam are likely to become regional instability , undermining the interests of the liberal world .
against this background , obama should follow powell ’ s ideas in 1991 .
powell thought that the us should use force only if key national interests were threatened , strategic objectives explicitly , and can be achieved more than costs , adverse effects , and access to broad domestic and international support , and a reliable exit strategy .
america ’ s record after this idea suggests that the main beneficiaries of military intervention are not america ’ s moral adversaries .
drone wars
brussels – in 1936 , the american poet carl sandburg wrote that “ they will someday go to war but no one .
instead , humans increasingly rely on drones – or unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ) – to kill them .
under president barack obama , the number of attacks on drone attacks in the us has soared , with the drone attacks on pakistan alone more than 300 .
in march 2011 , the us air force has trained more drones for the first time .
this raises serious ethical questions .
with no military personnel risking their lives , drones reduce the killing and the public ’ s legitimacy to justify war .
moreover , the lower the human tide ’ s fear of killing between the attackers and the target .
if drones are operating in nevada over yemen , the threshold for pulling the trigger would be dangerously low .
the killing is just part of the work , and then it might follow suit , and perhaps the entire evening .
moreover , the mere sound of drones can be heard for everyone , because it gives the enemy and the civilians a sign that they are being monitored and could be attacked – perhaps by terrorist recruiters .
in terms of legal and human rights , the us drone program is even more alarming .
after all , countries such as pakistan , yemen , and somalia are not recognized in a war zones .
in the context of war , it is only proof that the state should be killing its lives only if it proves absolutely necessary to save lives .
deterrence must be defended in a way that is under attack , or , in response to the possible threat of immediate threats , no time to discuss 致命 alternatives .
the us drone program has no longer been considered in the first category of reactive self-defense since september 11 , 2001 .
likewise , there is no evidence that the so-called terrorists who have been killed outside of the last few years have caused a direct threat to american citizens ’ lives , and that the threat must be addressed by prevention and premeditated killing .
unless us leaders prove otherwise , the us drone attacks in countries like pakistan and yemen should be reduced to the end of their execution .
the us state department legal adviser , 高洪柱 高洪柱 , disagrees , and suggested that the us is playing a world “ armed war with al qaeda and the taliban and related powers . ”
so the drone strikes claim that drone attacks are part of a global war in war zones and 战区 countries , so it is legitimate .
but even if we accept this adventurous assumption , there is still no legitimate explanation for human rights .
the war was allowed specifically to eliminate “ combatants ” who “ participate directly in hostilities . ”
and the killings must be controlled , strategically necessary , and acceptable to the public .
avoiding harm should be a top priority .
at the slightest sign of illegality , investigations have been investigated , prosecuted by the perpetrators , and compensation for victims .
but the us drone program ’ s legal basis is entirely unclear .
given the classified information classified in most drone activities , it is almost impossible to know whether all drone targets are directly involved in hostilities .
and , while the obama administration ’ s so-called civilian death numbers are officially defined as the official definition of what might be true , the premise is that any 参军 male who is killed in drone strikes is armed , unless subsequent intelligence proves otherwise .
according to a recent report by the law of stanford university and new york university , the number of civilian deaths in pakistan in real pakistan was probably 75 % in the real number of uav victims in 2011 .
other reports , while slightly less overvalued , have reached a staggering 30 % .
this clearly violates the legal obligations of proportionality .
the drone act is the cia , which all activities are secret .
and , unlike military personnel , cia agents enjoy extensive immunity , which has undermined the foundation of international law .
to declare that us drone operations are legitimate , however , they must be made more transparent in the context of war and armed conflict .
as long as the us does not allow the rest of the world to understand the truth , illegal offenses – including war crimes – could continue to elude impunity .
as citizens of the world have demanded to expand the scope of economic and fiscal accountability , we must also pressure further pressure on the us to demonstrate the need for drone operations , or that they immediately stop acting .
victims of drone attacks and their families and civil-society groups have begun to step up against america ’ s dubious drone activities , and have filed legal lawsuits .
others should be encouraged to do so .
at the same time , every drone attack would not only harm human rights and international humanitarian law , but will also create legal loopholes that other governments and armed groups will not hesitate to exploit .
instead of making the world safer , the us has created an environment of illegal killing at almost any time , in violation of basic human rights requirements that have been stripped of others ’ lives .
america ’ s locust years
berkeley – the writing on american political economy is hardly easy .
no one knows that the debt-ceiling 弦 will not survive ; how to survive ; and what happens if it is not .
if there were no consensus on the debt ceiling on august 3 , the interest rate on us treasury bonds could soar , but it could also maintain stability ( as investors assume that there are other more worrying things ) .
the fed and the people ’ s bank of china ( and other institutions ) could also support the market .
if the global economy is expected to weaken further , interest rates may rise , and if there is no inflation , investors will be more ( rather than less ) holding us treasuries .
frankly , no one knows what kind of solutions would be to raise the debt ceiling .
what we can know is that the proposal may include measures to reduce recent spending , which means that growth will slow further in the next 18 months , and unemployment will increase further .
we can also assume that such measures will end in january 2013 , when new initiatives are both likely to be reelected and a new republican president .
as a result , we are putting the us debt ceiling on side , and consider how the debt-ceiling standoff has been constrained by the us government over the last six months , let alone consider what useful policies are supposed to be discussed .
the threat of global warming , for example , is not eliminated .
the sooner this threat is , the better .
another six months should not be lost .
the employment-to-population ratio in the us remains stagnant , sustaining very low levels during the recession .
american households are working hard to restore their balance sheets , and capital investment is healthy , so that the only places that can boost production spending are exports , government purchases , and construction .
but we do not seize the opportunity to implement the necessary measures .
in this respect , another six months should not be lost .
similarly , the us has a reputation for its day-to-day responsibility for its international economic orchestra , but it did not , even the eu ’ s inability to deal with its slow debt crisis .
in northern europe , politicians in the north are running out of money and support policies that are far too high .
another six months later .
any of these three issues will be momentous progress toward resolving the long-term progress of the us ’ s long-term fiscal imbalances on long-term social security that the current tax rate and the us debt-ceiling debate want to address .
but the us government will not solve these problems , and it has wasted six months – to boost the us economy ’ s long-term potential and debt overhangs by investing in infrastructure investment , reforming education , and financing for health care .
during wwii ’ s war , winston churchill wore a “ disaster for the years ” – what he meant was a time when the great crisis that was supposed to be him ( the rise of fascism in the european continent ) was not done .
throughout the twentieth century – a remarkable exception – the us political system has always been able to predict a crisis long before the crisis , and when the crisis hit , at least , the us has dealt with it .
but , in the third millennium , the skills ( perhaps luck ) are gone from the us .
in my view , if only the republican party of dwight d. eisenhower could get back to life ( richard nixon and joseph mccarthy ) , the issue would automatically correct .
but it is becoming increasingly clear that the problem is not only in the us , but also elsewhere in the world .
since december 7 , 1941 , the world has been relying on a governance that is still a competent superpower .
such a us may be gone for good .
if so , the world needs another system to manage global affairs and soon .
america ’ s immigration debate
the us senate is engaged in a debate about immigration , which will discuss several proposals .
these include a hateful bill that stipulates that building a wall along the border with the united states and mexico , and putting illegal entry into the us , has approved the bill .
the us senate will also consider a bill led by senator john f. kennedy and senator john f. kennedy , who proposed strengthening border enforcement and instituting temporary work programs that can be redirected to residency and citizenship .
another is to demand that anyone who wants normal immigration in the us is returning to their homeland and wait for it .
last but not least , it is hard to imagine that no one has been willing to return to a new visa in the us to wait for a new visa .
almost five years ago , when president george w. bush promised to sign a immigration deal with mexico for president vicente fox , he has been spared the problem .
finally , perhaps the most important is the senate judiciary committee ’ s compromise proposal .
specter ’ s recommendations also apply to more border security , as well as six years of non-renewable work , which allows illegal immigrants to remain in the us for a new 移民 identity .
avoiding this question may be a tactical tactic for avoiding discussion of whether it is a form of grand amnesty , and , unfortunately , it is a form of grand amnesty .
what is missing from this debate is the latin american context .
in the old days , the flow of migrant flows in the western hemisphere was limited to mexico and the caribbean .
in the 1980 ’ s , when central america ’ s civil war brought hundreds of thousands of migrants to the us in mexico , the situation changed in the 1990 ’ s , when the people who escape the violence in colombia , venezuela , peru , and ecuador began looking for opportunities .
brazil has traditionally been a country of emigration , and it is now a country that exports migrants .
more importantly , these migrants are no longer confined to rural populations , and they are no longer confined to the traditional distribution of migrants in the us .
their remittances have benefited their families and communities as well as their economies .
in that case , the us , whatever its immigration policies , will have a major impact on regions outside of mexico .
and that is precisely what happened in latin america , where a return to anti-americanism and populism followed , first in 1999 , in venezuela , then last year , and perhaps mexico , peru , and nicaragua later this year .
if the us continues to feel hostile to latin america , it will harden irresponsible and demagogic left-wing tendencies .
the best way to exacerbate the region ’ s growing anti-american sentiment is to try to close the us-mexican border ( which would be futile ) .
instead , the us should establish a humanitarian , 安 , and legal mechanism for the us economy , and the people who want to enter the us for a permanent or permanent journey , and that the us should work with latin american governments , not against it .
five years ago , mexico ’ s president vicente fox tried to convince bush that to prevent a nativist backlash within the united states , it will have to take action to keep the us from its relationship with latin america in order to avoid a 强烈反应 backlash .
but the situation has become worse .
bush must start using his remaining political capital to support enlightened immigration reform .
without the support of the democrats , he will never have access to foreign workers , and the democrats will not be backed by democrats unless the white house supports a program that includes a permanent residence and citizenship .
mexico and the us must remain sensitive to domestic political concerns in their respective countries .
addressing the issue of security will not be able to deal with the migration issue in north korea , where immigration can not be imagined if immigration reform is ignored by the nearly five million illegal immigrants currently living in the us , and can not be expected to cooperate on border security and temporary workers programs .
mexico must act as a “ common responsibility ” on fox president .
the most viable agreement between the us and mexico , or the best possible us reforms , is not to eliminate migrants from mexico and south america overnight .
mexico must take responsibility for managing this flow of people , which means doing more than closing the southern border .
for example , the government could double down the welfare of male parents to stay home , threatening to eliminate land reform in the years after leaving rural communities , and establish checkpoints on highways in the 高速公路 hills .
fox has said that he is willing to break with the old mexican taboos , but the bush administration has never taken it seriously .
this is unfortunate , because fox will not be in power forever .
immigration is always a complex and delicate problem within the us , as is the case now for latin america .
the window of opportunity opened in bush ’ s first term was closed after the terrorist attacks of september 2001 .
now that window is opening up , and should be used before it is too late .
why iran won ’ t budge
tel aviv – no one really believes that a new round of international negotiations with iran will be possible .
so , while concessions from the p5+1 ( china , france , russia , the united kingdom , the united states , and , together with germany ) have been made at the meeting in kazakhstan , no progress has been made .
america ’ s belief that tough sanctions can induce iran to reach an agreement at least now appears unrealistic .
despite isolated and ostracized , iran has secured strategic breathing room with the help of the west , russia , india , syria , and venezuela .
more important , even the us-led sanctions regime is bound to be imperfect – and it will only strengthen iran ’ s resistance to “ american conspiracy . ”
iran ’ s strategic alliance is to be sure , and both staunch allies in syria and venezuela are likely to collapse outright .
the end of the chávez regime threatens to threaten iran ’ s enormous interests in venezuela , while iran ’ s collapse in the andes is likely to be undermined by the fall of the shah .
nonetheless , russia and china have been more lenient toward iran since the international atomic energy agency ’ s report in november 2011 detailing iran ’ s quest for nuclear weapons .
while the western powers imposed more sanctions than ever before , russia and china have made iran a global competition with the us .
china ’ s interests in iran are ultimately economic .
bilateral trade is about $ 40 billion a year , and china is not just iran ’ s largest customer of crude oil , but also a huge investor in energy transport ( $ 400 billion ) .
but china refused to recognize the west ’ s 单边制裁 measures , while supporting sanctions imposed by the un security council .
with bilateral trade worth only $ 5 billion , russia ’ s economic interests are minimal .
but russia worries that iran is making trouble , especially to whip up the muslim populace in russia .
moreover , the us has rejected the kremlin ’ s high prices – limiting congressional human-rights legislation , dismantling the cold war , and abandoning european ballistic missile defense programs , in exchange for russia ’ s support for us support in iran ( or in other volatile regions like syria ) .
the problem with america ’ s anti-iran crusade is that iran is playing an important role in areas where some countries are in play .
india is a case in point .
india is certainly wary of iran ’ s prospects for developing nuclear weapons , not to mention its concerns about the potential impact of iran ’ s islamic fundamentalism on kashmir .
but $ 14 billion in annual bilateral trade and dependence on iranian oil ( which india ’ s many refineries rely exclusively on iranian crude imports ) is a key strategic issue .
moreover , india needs iran to circumvent the country ’ s 替代 alternative to the country ’ s energy trade , and it needs iran to hedge its future uncertainty after the us withdrawal from afghanistan in 2014 .
as a result , india ’ s policy and china are like china : it is to agree to mandatory international sanctions , but the prohibition of voluntary western financial constraints .
the best guess is that india continues to brinkmanship – for example , in reducing dependence on iranian oil and expanding its oil imports from saudi arabia , the country ’ s largest supplier of crude oil .
the ambiguities in iran ’ s alliances is mixed .
there is certainly a good thing to be said of a country supporting tough sanctions , but it is likely that iran , with its back in the wall , could develop nuclear weapons .
after all , iraq is precisely the first point in the gulf war because of its nuclear program and without weapons of mass destruction .
similarly , libya ’ s muammar el-qaddafi became the target of nato ’ s assault on weapons of mass destruction .
on the contrary , north korea ’ s example suggests that the response is not a compromise but challenges .
as a result , iran has sought to develop its nuclear program with north korea ’ s assistance , which is likely to be destroyed by israel ’ s 2007 未公开 “ 行动 activities , ” which will be possible unless the comprehensive plan is set to address iran ’ s regional powers and ensure that the us does not act as a regional power .
albert einstein used “ doing the same thing , but expecting different results ” to define insanity , just as it applies to us policy toward iran .
diplomacy , exclusion , and brinkmanship have failed .
with iran ’ s uranium enrichment and other weapons r & d increasing , the us needs to change its old rules of engagement .
the wrong deficit complacency
cambridge – the united states still faces a dangerous budget deficit , but the deficit can not be known in the complacency that the washington budget debate has .
the previous federal deficit was seen as a pressing issue , but it is now a matter of us politics .
what triggered a change in opinion is the latest budget forecast for the congressional budget office ( cbo ) , an independent technical institution that is responsible for providing budget problems to the budget .
according to the cbo report , the us fiscal deficit will fall from 7 % of gdp in 2012 to 4 % in 2013 .
this reduction reflects spending cuts in defense and non-defense programs that came into effect last march , and the increase in taxes on income and payroll taxes that came into effect in late march 2012 .
even more remarkable is the cbo ’ s forecast that the deficit will continue to decline rapidly , cutting cuts to 2.1 % of gdp in 2015 , and then gradually rise , to 3.5 % in 2023 ( the end of the cbo officially forecast ) .
the budgetary changes imply that the government debt/gdp ratio will remain around 75 % over the next decade .
unfortunately , these headline-grabbing figures are unlikely to become reality ; indeed , even the cbo does not believe that they represent what happens in the future .
the cbo ’ s “ baseline budget ” assumes that all of the current law ’ s deficit cuts remain unchanged .
these include , for example , an old legislative requirement that the government ’ s medicare program will fall sharply in the years ahead , and that , in the case of this demand , a “ moratorium ” would be voted every year .
in order to provide better guidance , the cbo offered “ alternative fiscal scenarios , ” which , in this scenario , is not feasible .
the alternative suggests that the annual budget deficit will rise to 4.7 % of gdp , with the debt/gdp ratio at 83 % and rising .
and these estimates are based on optimistic assumptions that the economy will gradually recover full employment , with low inflation and low interest rates .
officials and others who support growth by increasing government spending ignore the cbo ’ s more realistic alternative scenario .
using long-term government debt – a ten-year treasury bond yield only 2 % , and the real interest rate on inflation protection ( tips ) is negative – the argument is not immediate .
but such low interest rates do not reflect normal market sentiment ; on the contrary , the reason for low interest rates is that the fed is buying more long-term securities , exceeding the volume of the government ’ s finances .
in the future , the cbo warns that a combination of rapidly aging populations and rising health-care costs will cause the deficit to rise rapidly , driven by increased benefits from retirement costs and benefits for middle-class retirees .
according to the cbo , without legislative changes , the annual fiscal deficit will be 1.7 % of gdp , while the national debt will rise to more than 195% % of gdp .
large and growing national debt is a serious threat to economic health .
rising debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and depress economic growth .
ten years later , the us needs to pay more than one-third of the revenue of personal income taxes to pay for interest on the national debt .
foreign investors now hold more than half of their debt .
paying interest to them would require sending goods and services to the rest of the world , with more than the number of other parts of the world going to the rest of the world .
this requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and that foreign goods are more expensive for us consumers .
a weaker dollar reduces us living standards .
a large national debt also limits governments ’ ability to respond to emergencies , including military threats and economic downturns .
it also makes the us vulnerable to changes in financial-market sentiment , as the european experience shows .
reducing future deficits and reversing the rise in the national debt will require higher tax revenue and lower growth in government pension and health-care programs .
tax revenues can be achieved without increasing marginal tax rates by limiting tax subsidies in the existing tax code .
these subsidies are implicit government spending , from family mortgages and health insurance to hybrid vehicles and household solar panels .
reducing the growth in spending on middle-class retirees and health-care programs is not an overnight task .
it must start with a decade of warning that people with a decade of warning are starting to start – and why need to begin now .
unfortunately , new complacency about the future deficits makes it difficult ( if not impossible ) to initiate the legislation needed to open the us budget deficit .
for policymakers and the public , it is important to understand the real fiscal outlook and the consequences of the deficit in the absence of immediate action .
simply throwing the problem on a minor footing will not prevent it .
facing america ’ s growth challenge
berkeley – the united states has been recovering from the great recession of the great depression , but the pace of recovery remains alarmingly low .
the recession or financial crisis in europe , or the slowdown in emerging markets , is a major source of external concern .
at home , the political struggle reflects two biggest risks : an agreement to achieve a higher debt ceiling and a new round of fiscal austerity that impede economic growth .
since 2010 , average annual gdp growth has averaged 2.1 % , meaning that job creation is weak .
in both cases , the rebound in employment growth was weaker than in gdp and lags behind gdp .
but the recent recession has fallen twice as much as the number of jobs in the latest recession , so slow recovery implies high unemployment for much longer .
weak aggregate demand is blamed for weak gdp and employment growth .
the 2008 recession was triggered by the financial crisis , which destroyed the housing market by inflating asset bubbles .
in the aftermath of such crises , private-sector demand fell sharply , and recovery will be slow .
the private sector ’ s volatility is the result of a deficit of 3.7 % of gdp in 2006 ( the height of the boom ) , which was about 6.8 % of gdp in 2010 , and now accounts for about 5 % of gdp .
this means that this is the sharpest recession and weakest recovery in private-sector demand since the end of world war ii .
the two components of private demand – residential investment and consumption , which account for more than 75 % of total spending in the us economy – are particularly slow .
both sources of demand are likely to increase in 2013 .
in terms of gdp , residential investment remains at a historic low , as the result of the excesses of the real-estate bubble of 2007-2008 and the tsunami of foreclosures .
but the headwinds in the housing market are dissipating .
last year , housing sales , prices , and construction rose , while foreclosures declined .
residential investment should be a source of output and employment growth this year .
the massive loss of household wealth , deleveraging at unsustainable debt levels , weak wage growth , and labor income ’ s share of national income , combined with a combination of income growth , has constrained consumption growth .
real median household income is still 7 % lower than its 2007 peak , and real median household wealth fell by 35 % from 2005 to 2010 ( and still significantly below pre-crisis peak ) , with 90 % of the income growth at the top of the top 1 % .
to be sure , balance-sheet headwinds for consumption have slowed .
household debt has been cut – often through painful foreclosure and insolvency – with the household debt/gdp ratio falling to levels in 2005 , significantly lower than in the 1980 ’ s .
but consumption will be affected by the expiration of the payroll tax plan , which will reduce household income by $ 25 billion this year .
another factor undermining recovery is weak growth in spending on goods and services in state and local governments , and recently the federal government has joined the ranks .
indeed , since the recession , state and local governments have eliminated 600,000 jobs and 20 % of infrastructure projects .
the fiscal trends of 2013 are still unclear , but negative .
state and local governments ’ spending cuts and layoffs in local and local governments are ending as recovery boosts tax revenues , and the fiscal drag on the federal level is increasing .
the us taxpayer bailout act – a tax agreement to avoid a “ fiscal cliff ” in early january – wiped out the $ 500 billion deficit in the coming decade , which would reduce the annual growth rate by 1 percentage points .
moreover , despite much less proponents of federal spending , the proposal has entered a phase of implementation , and may even intensify .
spending cuts and rising incomes for the law in 2011 are expected to reduce the deficit by $ 2.4 trillion over the next decade , with three-quarters coming from spending cuts and almost exclusively non-defense discretionary programs .
according to current economic assumptions , the us needs about $ 4 trillion in savings to stabilize the debt/gdp ratio over the next decade .
the so-called sequester ( across-the-board spending cuts that began in march ) will reduce $ 100 billion this year and $ 1.2 trillion in the next decade .
while this could stabilize the debt/gdp ratio , the sequester would be a mistake : it can not distinguish between spending priorities and undermines important projects , and that will lead to a severe weakening of growth this year .
moreover , despite warnings of deficit alarmists , the us has no immediate debt crisis .
recently , the public debt held by the public sector is just over 70 % of gdp , not seen since the early 1950 ’ s .
nonetheless , the government ’ s debt will increase by 86 % after a severe financial crisis , so that the federal debt increased by 70 % in 2008-2011 is not surprising .
there is little cause for concern .
the us economy is much higher after world war ii , but growth is growing much faster , and today ’ s ratio is lower than that of any other major industrial country ( roughly half of greece ’ s , and it is absurd ) .
over the last two years , washington has been obsessed with cutting the deficit and keeping the debt/gdp ratio “ sustainable ” path , despite global investors ’ scramble to push interest rates to historic lows .
significant progress has been ignored in the coming decade .
equally overlooked is the immediate challenge posed by low growth , weak investment , and unemployment .
it is time to refocus .
the us needs programs to boost growth , rather than deficit reduction .
the distinguished growth economist 多马尔 多马尔 ( one of my mit professors ) recommends that the problem of mitigating the debt burden is essentially the problem of national income growth .
we should heed his wisdom .
new progressive age in america ?
new york – in 1981 , us president ronald reagan came to the white house in a nutshell : “ the government is not a solution to the problem . ”
the government is the problem .
in the last three years , the obama administration ’ s recent inaugural address , which has now spoken out to support the most pressing challenges facing the government in the fight against america – and the world – will not seem to be taking the stage .
reagan ’ s dictum in 1981 was extraordinary .
it shows that the new us president is less interested in the government ’ s ability to address social problems than he did about the tax cuts ( mainly the rich ) .
more important , he started the “ revolution ” from the political right – a “ revolution ” for the poor , the environment , and technology – that , for three decades , has been “ revolution ” in favor of president george h. w. bush , clinton , george w. bush – and more or less in the first term .
the “ reagan revolution ” has four main components : tax cuts for the rich ; cut education , infrastructure , energy , climate change , and vocational training ; and the privatization of the defense budget ; and economic deregulation , including the privatization of military bases and prisons .
the revolution was called the “ free market ” revolution , because it is committed to reducing the role of government , in practice it is the beginning of the fight against the middle class and the poor .
these special interests include wall street , big oil , big insurers , and 军火商 .
they demand tax cuts ; they are required not to focus on environmental protection , which is met ; they demand and receive the right to hit trade unions ; they also have a strong government contract or even operation paramilitary activities .
for more than three decades , no one really challenged the consequences of ceding political power to the highest bidder .
meanwhile , the us has become increasingly divided from middle-class societies .
the ceo ’ s salary was 30 times higher than the average worker ’ s , now 230 times .
previously , the us was a world leader in the fight against environmental degradation , and then became the last great power to acknowledge the reality of climate change .
perhaps , perhaps , obama ’ s recent inaugural address marks the end of this destructive process and marked the beginning of a new era .
in fact , his inaugural address was devoted almost to the positive role of government in providing education , fighting climate change , rebuilding infrastructure , caring for the poor and the disabled , and generalized investment in the future .
this was the first inaugural address of the president since reagan made the us principle the first such thing .
if obama ’ s speech does become the start of the new progressive politics of the us , this would fit the path that great american historian arthur schlesinger sought to explore : the us presence in “ private interests ” and “ public goals ” and some 30 years .
at the end of the nineteenth century , the us moved to gilded age , creating a massive new industry in the era of a “ kleptocratic capitalism ” that produced massive inequality and corruption .
the subsequent progressive era was followed by a temporary return to plutocracy in the 1920 ’ s .
then came the great depression , franklin roosevelt ’ s new deal , and a new 30 years of progressive politics – in the 1930s .
the 1970s was the transition to the reagan era – 30 years of conservative politics held by powerful companies .
it is clear that it is time for public goals and governments to lead the recovery , to fight climate change , help the poor , promote sustainable technologies , and modernize the us infrastructure .
if the us were to achieve these major steps through a targeted public policy – which obama ’ s plan – the resulting innovative science , new technologies , and powerful demonstration effects will benefit all of the world ’ s countries .
it is certainly too early to declare that the us is entering a new era of progress .
vested interests remain powerful , especially in congress – and even in the white house .
these powerful groups and individuals offer billions of dollars in candidates for the recent campaign , and expect them to pay off .
moreover , 30 years of tax cuts have allowed the us government to lose its financial resources to implement key areas , such as the transition to low-carbon energy .
nonetheless , obama has wisely ordered the 战书 of the new government ’ s era of activism .
doing so is right , because many key challenges today – from our excessive behavior to saving the planet ; ensuring that technological progress benefits all members ; and the new infrastructure needed to build a national and global sustainable future – requires collective solutions .
for good governance , public policy is as important as implementing their vision .
the next task is to design smart , innovative , and cost-effective solutions to these challenges .
unfortunately , when bold innovative solutions are needed to meet vital human needs , the us tends to act as a bridge .
it is time for the us to begin a transition , and obama ’ s efforts to defend the vision of progress provide the us with the right direction .
america ’ s new trade hypocrisy
as the current round of “ development round ” enters the final stage , it is increasingly clear that the goal of promoting development can not be achieved , and the multilateral trading system will be hurt .
one clause has made it clear that the market ’ s market access would seem to be the least developed developed country .
a year ago , leaders in the world ’ s richest countries promised to ease the plight of the poorest countries .
in doha , in november 2001 , they pledged more valuable things to give the poor a chance to sell their products and earn their incomes out of poverty .
in a flurry of noisy 喧闹 , when the european union extended its “ all product ” programs ( eba ) , the advanced countries seem to have been able to achieve their promises at the time of the world ’ s poorest countries .
this openness is smaller than it seems .
the problem is that many developed countries found that the project ’ s complex rules of origin and the provision of supplier constraints mean that poor countries have little chance of exporting their products .
but the world ’ s richest country , the world ’ s richest country , has once again decided to demonstrate its hypocrisy .
developing countries have been disappointed by the results of open market projects in the eu , responding to the eu ’ s commitment to address at least some of the problems caused by rules of origin .
instead , the us intent on opening its markets to do nothing to do nothing , because , in the us , the us has chosen to select a different 3 % .
as a result , it was touted as a 项目 project : developing countries are permitted to export all products that they do not produce .
they can export 喷气机 engines , 超级计算机 , airplanes , and all computer chips , not their products , such as textiles , agricultural products , or processed foods .
consider bangladesh .
if we are using the most commonly used six-figure 六位数 code , bangladesh exported 409 tariff lines to the us in 2004 , with revenues of $ 2.3 billion .
but the top 12 tariff lines , which account for about 3 % of all tariff lines , account for the total value of us exports .
this means that the us can erect barriers to almost three-fifths of bangladeshi exports .
for cambodia , that figure is almost 62 % .
even if the us imposes a 3 % tariff code for imports from other parts of the world , the us would be able to exclude some 30 tariff lines from duty-free allowances .
for bangladesh , that means that 75 % of the tariff lines that account for the value of us exports could be excluded from duty-free treatment .
exclusion from duty-free treatment could spill over 100 % of cambodia ’ s exports , while the country exported only 277 tariff lines to the us in 2004 .
the formal justification for 3 % exclusion is that it affects “ sensitive products . ”
in other words , the us has preached the need to respond to the pain of rapid adjustment in the face of rapid adjustment of trade liberalization .
( indeed , the us has for 11 years to adjust to liberalization of textiles . )
but the real problem is even more serious , as 3 % of 排除法 policies are the specter of blatant divide-and-rule policies , which are being invited to compete with each other to ensure that america does not exclude them from 3 % .
the rule of law undermines the multilateral trading system .
indeed , even behind the 97 % proposal may be the more insidious purpose .
in the world trade organization ’ s 2003 summit in cancun , developing countries agreed to prevent the development of a trade deal that is just as unfair as the previous uruguay round .
the destruction of such unity is necessary .
the strategy for america ’ s bilateral trade agreement is precisely the goal of a few countries representing a fraction of global trade .
the 97 % rule could extend this split to the world trade organization itself .
the us has succeeded in making the poor poor .
preferential market access to african countries , according to the african 发胀 and the opportunity ( agoa ) and the recent initiative , is more likely to be a trade separation , and from some poor countries to other countries .
for example , bangladesh ’ s share in the us clothing market fell from 4.6 % in 2001 to 3.9 % in 2004 .
in the same period , agoa countries have risen from 1.6 % in us clothing to 2.6 % , and , when agoa countries started to take full advantage of duty-free market access , this share could be higher .
agoa includes a sunset clause , but , as it would be for less-developed countries in africa to keep duty-free access to africa ’ s less-developed countries , asia ’ s poor will continue to lose us market share .
the world trade organization is supposed to prevent such a trade deal , but so far it has failed to do so .
even if the us succeeds in dividing the developing world , it will inspire solidarity elsewhere .
the changing tide of growth
berkeley – the recent g-20 meeting in saint petersburg confirmed that the battle between growth and austerity is over – at least for now .
with europe ’ s long-term recession and emerging-economy slowdown , fears of budget deficits have given way to concern about growth .
in july , the imf revised its forecast for global growth this year .
japan and the united states have become bright spots for a bleak global outlook , but each has different reasons .
in japan , prime minister shinzo abe has launched a combination of aggressive monetary and fiscal expansion , and promised to reform the labor market , corporate governance , regulation , and trade .
with rapid and bold stimulus , japan ’ s economy is expected to grow by about 3 % this year – one of the highest in the advanced economies – and 80 % in the six months ending in may .
now abe has signaled his intention to pursue tough structural reforms .
as a result , his policies will make japan a 焕然一新 .
the situation in the us is that the recovery is continuing as growth headwinds diminish .
state and local governments ’ deficits are improving , and the housing market is strengthening , household deleveraging is deleveraging , and balance-sheet repair .
the perverse fiscal austerity at the federal level has dampened growth this year , but the private sector is more resilient than expected .
under current law , fiscal contraction will be loosened next year , and monetary policy will remain supportive , so most forecasters predict faster growth .
but the growth outlook may be undermined by a new political struggle that is deeply linked to the federal budget .
in view of the house republicans ’ tone , another round of fiscal austerity will be met .
earlier this year , the congressional budget office warned that the potential growth rate in the us was reduced by years of inadequate investment rates , population aging , and declining productivity growth .
every year that is lower than productive capacity implies a decline in future growth capacity , owing to the decline in investment , the loss of workers ’ skills and experience , and diminished risk-taking .
but , as some have often been overlooked , the future potential growth prospects of the us will be optimistic .
the latest mckinsey global institute has proposed five mutually reinforcing “ game-changing factors , ” which will dramatically affect gdp growth , productivity , and employment in the us , which are shale energy , big-data analytics , knowledge-intensive exports , infrastructure investment , and talent development .
the two – shale energy and big-data analytics – are building on ongoing technological breakthroughs , and technological breakthroughs depend largely on private-sector behavior , rather than on macroeconomic and structural policies , which are clearly leading the us .
over the last five years , annual growth in us shale oil and gas production has grown by more than 50 % .
owing to increased supply , us natural-gas prices have fallen by two-thirds since 2008 , and will remain significantly lower than the rest of the world ( at least ) in 2020 .
this price advantage strengthens the us as a manufacturing location , especially in energy-intensive activities .
the us has the world ’ s first recoverable shale-gas reserves and the second-largest recoverable shale-oil reserves .
the us and the us have a leading advantage in energy technologies , and have built a huge network of pipelines , refineries , and ports in the energy sector , which can be used directly to shale gas and oil ( though it also requires significant new investments ) .
growth in shale energy means more investment , output , and jobs in the energy sector itself .
lower gas prices will boost manufacturing production , especially in downstream industries such as petrochemicals and primary metals , which use natural gas to fuel fuel and inputs .
growth in energy and energy-intensive industries will fuel demand , output , and employment growth , including transportation , construction , and professional services .
overall , mckinsey estimates that growth in shale energy will increase annual gdp by 2-4 % in 2020 and create the most 1.7 million jobs .
it would also release co2 when shale gas is burned , despite the low coal prices of coal , and to reduce emissions to the mid-1990 ’ s .
not surprisingly , the president of the 环境 defense defense council recently remarked that “ fracking is the most complicated thing i have ever seen . ”
we need to go further on the environmental risks and benefits of shale energy , and develop new standards and regulations to control these risks .
big data and advanced analytics are a technology-driven change in us growth .
with more data , storage , and digital transmission , new data sets related to personal and business decisions are on the rise .
with greater computing power , the advent of cloud computing , and new software tools , more data sets can be analyzed quickly and are used by firms to reduce costs and boost productivity and services .
big data and advanced analytics also reduce health-care and government costs , increase their efficiency , and create value for consumers through greater product diversification and higher quality , better products , and better products for consumers .
mckinsey estimates that big-data analytics could increase the value of the retail and manufacturing sectors by by 2020 , or about 1 % of annual gdp in the retail and manufacturing sectors , while boosting productivity and cost savings for the health-care sector and the government .
potential savings in health-care costs would reduce government budgets and release resources to boost growth in other parts of the economy .
the factors that changed the potential growth rate of the us economy in the 1990s were new information and communications technologies .
according to mckinsey research , the benefits of shale energy and big data technologies will benefit the us economy as much as possible in the years ahead , and they are a new game changer .
america ’ s self-defeating future
i recently heard a 趣事 : america ’ s international financial economists and domestic macroeconomists are very different from the consequences of america ’ s current-account deficit , and even the opposite view .
international finance scholars believe that large deficits could lead to a financial crisis , followed by a long and painful recession .
rather than a crisis , macroeconomists believe that the dollar is about to depreciate rather than a crisis , or an opportunity to accelerate growth .
the domestic macroeconomists ’ views are roughly the same : at some point in the future , foreign central banks will continue to buy large quantities of dollar-denominated securities to maintain dollar value .
if they stop the large-scale dollar purchases , the value of the dollar falls – and it will fall far off .
but , according to this view , as the dollar ’ s value declines , us exports will become more attractive abroad , and employment in the us will grow , and labor will be redistributed to an export-led export sector .
the situation would be similar to that of abandoning a fixed exchange rate and allowing the pound to depreciate against the deutsche mark , or the us in the 1980 ’ s , when the dollar fell sharply against sterling , the deutschemark , and especially the yen .
international finance economists are far less sanguine about prospects .
they argue that a foreign central bank ’ s suspension of large-scale dollar purchases would not only lead to a fall in the dollar , but also the rise in long-term interest rates in the us , while the rise in long-term interest rates would bring consumption spending immediately and thus halt investment spending .
to be sure , international finance economists have also argued that the dollar would benefit from a weaker dollar , but demand lags for two years to delay growth in consumption and investment .
800 million people will have to shift from services and construction to exports of goods and goods , meaning that structural unemployment will inevitably happen .
moreover , the dollar ’ s depreciation may also lead to financial panics : a substantial increase in long-term interest rates in dollars would make large financial institutions with substantial short-term liabilities and long-term assets .
this disorder has caused financial crises and bankruptcies , as banks ’ local-currency assets and dollar liabilities have created in mexico and east asia in the 1990s , as well as the pressure and bankruptcy of argentina ’ s recent crisis .
international finance economists describe the picture , while domestically oriented macroeconomists think that more like a bad monetary policy .
why has the fed been allowed to increase long-term interest rates only because foreign central banks have stopped the dollar ’ s bond-buying program ?
can ’ t the fed step in , buy the long-term bonds issued by the us , thereby keeping long-term interest rates in favor of expanding employment ?
for this narrative , international finance economists believe that the fed does not have such a capacity .
as a result , because the dollar ’ s depreciation would raise import prices , negative effects on the supply of the economy will have a negative effect on the us federal reserve , which is selling rather than buying bonds .
the serious economist i respect in this debate stands starkly at the opposite of the debate .
i have no capacity to point out who is right , but i certainly know that i want one side ’ s views to be wrong .
america ’ s other 30 %
new haven – american consumers are now left with only a 影子 shadow .
in the second quarter of 2012 , personal consumption in the united states was only 1.5 % real per year – and hardly a disorderly performance .
unfortunately , this is a continuation of the weakness that has been evident since early 2008 .
compared to the 10 % growth trend that preceded the crisis , annual growth in real consumer demand has averaged only 0.7 % in the last 18 quarters .
the us has not yet had a long record of weakness .
the reasons are not secret .
consumers were 大注 in both bubbles and credit .
reckless monetary and regulatory policies have turned the sacred residence into an atm , allowing them to extract the dollar from bubbles and enjoy a life exceeding their economic capacity .
both bubbles have burst , with us households being forced to face the financial fallout of the bust , including underwater assets , record-high debt , and deep saving shortfalls .
at the same time , soaring unemployment and subpar income growth have also tightened the 绞索 of over-extended consumers .
as a result , american households have never been more conciliatory .
consumers spend meager income on debt and rebuilding savings , rather than spending .
the logic of logic – that is , not the fed ’ s reliance on unconventional monetary policy – would be offset .
america ’ s unprecedented retrenchment in us consumer attitudes has already raised projections of us economic growth .
consumption typically accounts for 70 % of gdp ( 71 % in the second quarter ) .
but it is almost 70 % growth , and the likelihood of strong growth in the foreseeable future is slim .
this led to significant pressure to propel economic recovery to the rest of the us economy .
indeed , the other 30 % are poor , especially given the headwinds generated by 70 % of consumption .
the other 30 % consists of four components : corporate capital spending , net exports ( exports minus imports ) , residential construction , and government procurement .
( it should also include the pace of inventory investment , but it is only a cyclical buffer between production and sales , not the source of final demand . )
given that a mere 0.7 % growth in real consumption in the last four and a half years , the us economy ’ s annualized recovery in the aftermath of the great depression was a miracle .
this is due largely to the remaining 30 % of consumption , especially with strong export and corporate capital spending .
instead , the government is moving in the opposite direction , because the state and local governments are implementing austerity , and federal purchases have reached its limit in the post-crisis deficit .
the housing sector has begun to recover in the last five quarters , but its current growth impact is negligible , owing to the previous conditions .
given the likelihood that consumption will remain weak in the coming years , the us economy ’ s growth agenda will need to focus on the remaining 30 % of its potential .
the prospects for these two sources of growth will not only affect the prospects for recovery , but also the determinants of a major shift in us growth patterns .
more than 70 % of the divide underscores the challenge : the us must confront a fundamental realignment of domestic demand , and to support more support for external demand .
capital spending and exports , which share roughly 24 % of gdp , constitute a key factor in this transformation .
the share of capital spending will exceed 10 % of gdp , well below the peak of nearly 13 % .
if us firms are to be equipped with advanced capacity , technology , and private infrastructure , they will have to take back market share at home and abroad , with capital spending exceeding its 2000 peak .
only then can export growth , impressive since 2009 , go further .
only then can the us stem the growth momentum of foreign production firms .
the other 30 % also highlight the deeper strategic issues facing the us – and also a deep competitive challenge .
the shift to external demand is not a red herring , with hard work , perseverance , and a long overdue competitive recovery .
here , too , the us has fallen behind .
according to the world economic forum ’ s global competitiveness index , the us slipped to fifth fifth from 2011 to 2012 , continuing a clear downward trend in 2005 .
the decline can be attributed to several factors , including deficiencies in primary and secondary education and macroeconomic management .
equally disturbing is the quality of infrastructure in the us ( 24 ) , technological effectiveness , and absorption rankings ( # 18 ) , and the breadth and depth of supply chains ( 14th ) .
improved improvement in the us ’ s competitiveness is essential .
but meeting these challenges will require the rest of the us – especially private capital spending – to remain strong .
as us consumption is likely to continue to slow , the same 30 % must continue to shoulder the burden of a sluggish economic recovery .
none of this can be achieved in a vacuum .
without a long-overdue recovery in us saving , the funds needed to restore competitiveness and sustain recovery simply can not be realized .
this may be the most serious challenge facing the us during a period of outsize government deficits and subpar household saving .
america ’ s other 87 deficits
new haven – the united states has a classic multilateral trade imbalance .
in addition to a large trade deficit with china , the us ran deficits with 87 other countries .
multilateral deficits can not be addressed by putting pressure on the bilateral partners .
but that is not the case with china ’ s hardline hardliners .
america ’ s massive trade deficit is a direct result of unprecedented domestic saving shortfalls .
the most meaningful measure of a country ’ s saving capacity is what economists call “ net national saving ” – the sum of personal , business , and government saving .
the measure measures “ net ” value to remove depreciation associated with aging or worn-out capacity .
the measure is available to measure the volume of savings that are available to grow in a country ’ s capital stock , thereby sustaining economic growth .
in the us , net savings have disappeared .
none of the world ’ s major economies has experienced such saving shortfalls in modern history .
but the us found a way to finesse this problem .
using the “ exorbitant privilege ” of the world ’ s reserve currency , the so-called “ exorbitant privilege ” of the world ’ s reserve currency , the us could borrow abroad to borrow abroad , running a large balance-of-payments deficit ( or current-account ) deficits to attract foreign capital .
the last balance in the us current-account balance was in 1991 , when the current account hit a record of $ 8010 billion ( 6 % of gdp ) in 2006 .
the deficit has declined in the last few years , but most of the improvement may have been the temporary effect of an unusually difficult business cycle .
america ’ s multilateral trade deficit has long accounted for a large share of the us balance-of-payments gap .
since 2000 , it has accounted for 96 % of cumulative current-account deficits .
this is the absurdity of china ’ s blame .
unless there is a problem at the root of the problem – namely , chronic saving shortfalls – it is ludicrous to believe that a bilateral solution can be addressed with a bilateral solution .
but that is precisely what us officials and many prominent economists believe the us needs .
the trade deficit has been widely viewed as a serious source of pressure for us jobs and real wages , which has been particularly focused on the us-china trade imbalance .
yes , china is the most prominent component of america ’ s multilateral trade deficit , accounting for 42 % of the 2010 trade gap .
proactive outsourcing and supply-chain management decisions by us mncs are one important reason why china ’ s share of the share has soared .
but that did not stop officials in washington , dc .
the long-standing charges of currency manipulation have provided us politicians – both republicans and democrats – with the explicit evidence that they should impose high tariffs on chinese exports to the us .
that is the view behind the us senate ’ s recent overwhelming passage of the “ currency bill ” directed at china .
the problem with the us may be a stopgap scapegoat , but it is a bad game driven by bad calculation .
in an age of us government budget deficits and chronic shortfalls in personal saving , the us is bound to be in the midst of a saving-short period of saving and a large multilateral trade deficit .
cutting off trade with china would not only resolve the saving shortfall , but would also be self-defeating .
the chinese component of america ’ s multilateral trade deficit could simply transfer only another country , costing the country well above the cost of production .
the move would be a tax hike on beleaguered american families , not a solution that american politicians have promised .
this is not to ignore the us-china trade issues that must be addressed .
market access should be the top priority – especially for the us economy , which is weak and badly needed for exports .
china is now america ’ s third-largest and fastest-growing export market , so the us should work to expand china ’ s opportunities , especially at a time when china ’ s economy is increasingly oriented toward domestic demand .
china should be viewed as an opportunity , not a threat .
at the same time , the us government should clarify the american public ’ s ability to manipulate the exchange rate as unfair trade practices .
indeed , the renminbi has appreciated by 30 % against the dollar since 2005 .
from multilateral digital – a more meaningful indicator , because it measures the value of a country ’ s currency relative to all of its trading partners – the renminbi ’ s exchange rate , which has been “ real ” , is 8 % higher than in the past 12 years .
yes , china continues to stockpile vast foreign-exchange reserves .
blaming china reflects the deterioration of americans mentality .
this leaves americans ’ attention away from those who really should have made the biggest savings shortfall in history permanent .
the us has been seduced by the political economy of false prosperity .
it enabled americans to squander their lives for almost two decades .
now the game is over .
in any country , the ultimate test of its national character is whether or not a major challenge is to be developed .
and , in the wake of the twentieth century , others are the greatest tragedy .
ultimately , america ’ s 88 deficits are not a day .
the american consumer is not okay
new haven – 老手 are working hard to justify america ’ s subpar economic recovery .
all eyes are on family .
because the unemployment rate falls , the increase in household value , and the high stock market in which innovation is high , forecasters , market participants , and policymakers now agree on a new consensus that the us is finally returning .
they are 别信 .
for starters , the fact is that , in the 21 quarters since the beginning of 2008 , real ( inflation-adjusted ) personal consumption has grown at an average annual rate of just 0.9 % .
this is the longest period since the end of world war ii , which is well below the annual rate of 4 % real consumption growth in the pre-crisis pre-crisis period of 2007 .
given that household consumption accounts for about 70 % of the us economy , the gap between pre-crisis trends and the post-crisis trend is enough to reduce the post-crisis trend toward real gdp growth .
no wonder the us unemployment rate is unacceptably high .
in order to understand the unique features of the shortfall in consumer demand , trends in the last 21 quarters are divided into two different sets of 次级 .
the first is the 2.2 % annualized decline in annualized growth in the second quarter of 2008 from the first quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009 .
as a result of the crisis , the peak was a 4.5 % annualized decline since 2008 .
then , after the six quarters of decline , the 15 quarters from 2009 to early 2013 , annualized consumption growth averaged just 2 % – a growth that would have been extremely anemic when based on past consumer-spending cycles .
the key point is that only the consumer recovery will be ignored .
in recent speeches with the current and former central bankers ’ discussions , i was focused on the 0.9% growth trend of the last 21 quarters , without focusing on the pace of recovery in the post-crisis period .
it is , they point out , at least a recovery , and a signal to health is that the fed ’ s bold unconventional approach is largely unconventional .
this brings us to the second reason against optimism : analytics .
one of the first concepts of economics in the basic macro curriculum is the “ repressed ” consumer demand .
discretionary consumption is typically delayed in recession , especially for durable durable goods such as automobiles , furniture , and appliances .
when the recession ends and recovery began , the “ inventory adjustment ” response occurs , with households compensating for previous alternatives and upgrading old durable goods .
for most of the post-war period , the pent-up consumer demand released after the crisis was a powerful blow to economic recovery .
by contrast , the release of the current cycle of pent-up demand brought about 3 % annualized growth ( in the five quarters from early 2010 to early 2011 ) .
moreover , the strongest quarterly growth was 4.1 % in the fourth quarter of 2010 .
this is a depressing outcome .
the worst consumer recession in modern history – a record of declining consumer spending in 2008-2009 – should trigger a full explosion of pent-up demand .
but nothing happened .
by contrast , the release of pent-up consumer demand is roughly half that of previous business cycles .
the third is the diagnosis : us consumer demand is so anemic that growth in the post-crisis period is due to deep balance-sheet recessions .
we learn from the hindsight that the 12 years of consumer spending that america experienced before the crisis was built on fragile assets and credit bubbles .
when these bubbles burst , consumers were left to consumers with too much debt and too little savings .
the post-bubble aversion to spending , together with the related focus on balance-sheet repair , reflects the powerful “ debt rejection ” syndrome economist richard koo .
the framework of japan ’ s first lost decade ( in the 1990 ’ s ) , japan ’ s first lost decade in the first half of the world ( in the 1990 ’ s ) , is also a part of the 危机 us consumer , which is still burdened by excessive debt burdens , mortgages , and massive personal savings .
the fed implemented unconventional monetary easing , trying to create a shortcut on household balance sheets .
here , the wealth effects of rising house prices and surging stock markets have been revealed .
but is this new wealth effect really what we want ?
yes , the stock market has now reached a record record – but it is now measured in dollars .
in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak .
likewise , while the 指数 us house price index was growing 10.2 % year on year in march 2013 , it is still 28 % below its 2006 peak .
wealth creation has worked , but it will not be able to address previous wealth destruction .
unfortunately , most us households ’ balance sheets are far from recovering .
moreover , while the us unemployment rate has declined , most of this reflects a declining labor-force participation rate , which has more than 6.5 million americans since 2006 .
at the same time , while consumer confidence is rebounding , it is far lower than it was before the crisis .
in short , the american consumer ’ s nightmare is far from over .
beyond market buoyancy , recovery has only just begun .
america ’ s political recession
berkeley – the likelihood that the united states will fall into recession next year is about 36 % .
the reason is entirely political : partisan polarization has reached unprecedented levels , with the us “ fiscal cliff ” – automatic tax hikes that began in 2013 , unless the democrats and republicans reach other agreements .
a hundred years ago , during the first gilded age , american politics appeared to be polarized .
in 1896 , us president theodore roosevelt was a republican attack .
he denounced the democratic presidential candidate william Jennings as a puppet of the illinois governor of the governor of illinois .
“ the free coinage ” would “ be a step toward a full socialism , and socialism is his fundamental political idea . ”
he and altgeld “ want to overturn the basic policies of government since the establishment of the establishment . ”
these words are as extreme as we are now heard , and that words are the man who is coming to the vice ( and become president after assassination ) .
we hear that texas governor rick perry has said that if his republican colleagues , the fed chairman , ben bernanke were tempted to do so , he will take him .
we also hear kansas ’ s desire to remove president barack obama ’ s name in kansas ’ votes , because he believes that obama is not “ american citizen in the year . ”
but neither perry nor kobach is likely to be a us president , and theodore roosevelt has moved beyond party .
he is happy to deal with the democrats – making himself a head of the republican party , as well as a party for bipartisan progress and policy targeting by pushing for bipartisan legislation and policy goals .
obama resembles the security policy of ronald reagan ( the second term ) , bush ’ s spending policy , clinton ’ s tax policy , a bipartisan 斯夸姆湖 group , and the health policies of perry , obama ’ s immigration policy , and mitt romney ’ s climate change policy ( at least during his tenure as governor of massachusetts ) .
but he is not moving toward the republican party , backing republican policies .
indeed , like clinton , obama can not persuade republican senators like susan collins to support his own campaign of financial policy , mccain supported his own policy of climate change , and – the lowest-cost – romney supported his own health-care program .
likewise , he will not allow republican vice-presidential candidate paul ryan to support his own medicare program .
there are obvious reasons for this .
a large part of the republican party ’ s 党基 – including many of the party ’ s largest donors – believes that , as long as a democratic president , the us ’ s illegal enemy , is a mistake , and should be resisted .
the republican cadres have also argued that obama is more in this view than clinton .
this view clearly influences republican leaders , who worry that partisan squabbles have kept their campaign on the phone and purse strings of their campaign .
moreover , since clinton ’ s election in 1992 , republican leaders have concluded that , regardless of who is president , both the white house and the white house will create the best way to justify the government ’ s failure .
that was the republicans ’ calculation of 2011-2012 .
the november election did not change the balance of power in the us government : obama remains president , the republicans still control the house , and the democrats control the senate .
now , republican lawmakers may have betrayed their leaders , arguing that they ran in their own affairs , rather than in the republican party ’ s government paralysis in the next election .
republican leaders like representatives of the house of representatives , eric cantor , mitch mcconnell , and senator mitch mcconnell are likely to think that their resistance has failed .
they might note that , while the financial crisis has been in trouble , the financial crisis has created the most successful in the advanced countries , and that , so far , obama ’ s policies have been the most successful in the advanced countries , and that obama is a good president .
but it was .
at the moment , all senior us politicians are telling their supporters that they have a confidence in the “ fiscal cliff ” problem before the end of december .
but they have expressed so many proponents because current pessimism leads to the blame for the subsequent stalemate .
for me , 60 % of the world ’ s real negotiation will not happen until the tax rate on january 1 , before the tax rate was raised on january 1 .
for me , if political gridlock continues to rise to 2013 , the us has 60 % of the likelihood of a recession .
let ’ s hope it ’ s my shortsightedness .
拜拜 , the middle east ?
paris – the idea that a strategy is beginning to be popular in the united states is becoming an energy independent , paving the way for its strategic “ pivot ” from the middle east to asia .
the us , eager for energy , has long depended on global markets to meet domestic demand .
in 2005 , the us consumed 60 % of the energy consumed by imports .
since then , however , the share of imports has fallen , and the future will continue to be sustained .
by 2020 , the us will be self-sufficient in energy self-sufficiency and became an oil exporter by 2030 .
this situation will give the us three advantages .
this would give us economic competitiveness , especially relative to europe , because the cost of extracting shale gas is lower .
this will also reduce the risk of america ’ s exposure to an increasingly unstable arab world .
finally , it will increase the relative vulnerability of china ’ s major strategic rival , china , which is increasingly dependent on the middle east ’ s energy supply .
these factors obviously deserve serious consideration , but their impact on us foreign policy in the middle east should not be ruled out prematurely .
in any case , though energy dependence is the main determinant of us policy in the region , it is not the only ingredient .
israel ’ s security and desire to contain iran are equally important .
and , given that the role of the middle east in global geopolitics will grow in the coming decades , it is hard to imagine that a superpower , like the us , will be able to do so .
over the next 15 years , opec countries will account for half of global oil production , and 42 % today .
moreover , a large source of growth is likely to come from iraq .
in the coming decade , could iraq be the world ’ s second-largest oil exporter , generating more than $ 200 billion per year in revenue , while a state that is increasingly dominated by an increasingly pro-israel shia regime ?
would the us have allowed its third regional allies – saudi arabia , turkey , and israel to confront a strategic threat from the region ?
as long as the iranian nuclear crisis is not resolved , the syrian crisis will continue to widen the middle east ’ s sunni-shia divide ( reflected in increasingly tense tensions in turkey and iran ) .
despite us president barack obama ’ s visit to asia in november – an effort to highlight america ’ s “ pivot ” to the us – he had to devote considerable time and effort to mediating the conflict between israel and hamas in gaza .
indeed , if oil is really america ’ s only important interests in the middle east , its special relationship with israel can not be overestimated , because it is bad for the us and the arab oil-exporting countries .
even if its dependence on middle east energy has peaked , the us will not change its policies to support israel .
it is also important to remember that , in 1973 , the opec oil embargo in the united states was much more expensive than europe , even though the us was the principal target of the embargo – israel ’ s support for israel in october ’ s war against egypt and syria .
ultimately , after egypt became america ’ s allies and a rapprochement with israel , the us has increased its position in the region .
china ’ s increasing interest in the middle east has also reduced the likelihood of american withdrawal .
the us will still consider ensuring security in asia ’ s allies , which , like china , increasingly relies on middle east oil exports .
nonetheless , while the us is unlikely to withdraw from the middle east , america ’ s exposure to the region will undoubtedly decline ; as this trend , the us is likely to play an increasingly cynical role in the middle east .
its interference in the israeli-palestinian conflict could be limited to the status quo , and it is no longer seeking a comprehensive settlement .
this stance – exemplified by the united states ’ opposition to the status of the palestinian observer in the united states at the united nations general assembly – is to acknowledge that abandoning the establishment of two countries in the middle east is just as emphatic .
this clearly satisfies israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu and the palestinian fringe seeking to weaken the palestinian authority .
but it is also clear that obama is more a good man than a visionary .
can the us extend beyond the discipline ?
the us economy is still ahead of the other rich countries .
a large trade deficit ?
there is no problem .
the deficit continued in 2005 , while the dollar remains strong .
is investment small , a deteriorating primary education system deteriorating ?
not to worry .
the 超级 us economy receives more benefits for little .
nor is the us economic hegemon showing signs of utter failure under the weight of unilateral military rule .
in the absence of a 战争 period of war in which consumers in the united states feel the material lack of war , they continue to ride the party , as if they were christmas every year .
some believe that the us economy is different .
as the us economy is better than any other country , american consumers can continue their spendthrift lives .
the us labor market is more flexible than europe ’ s , and can quickly adjust to the needs of globalization .
moreover , unlike most countries in latin america and asia , america ’ s economic system ruthlessly hinders all of its weak corporate leadership .
moreover , these devout believers use us money with ample , competitive universities to prove their right , and the number of those who absorb the world ’ s top students and researchers is surprising .
a large share of these people ultimately settled in the united states , and they are relatively small , thanks to a relatively open and welcoming american society ( though it has become more difficult since 2001 ) .
beyond that , the us military is not just a burden on society , but also by funding basic research to keep technology ahead of the us .
by contrast , skeptics argue that the seeds of a social downturn are already in the us .
they are referring to the growing income gap , with images of television footage from new orleans exposed to television images around the world .
poor children are not treated properly .
the life of the poor is not ideal , because it has been a long time since business profits soared , but employees have not experienced much growth .
indeed , this explains why president george w. bush ’ s excellent economic management did not provide him with a corresponding public opinion , and that americans ’ work time is far more popular than europeans , or even japanese .
skeptics argue that all of these factors have turned into social pressure , and social pressures will ultimately affect political politics .
interestingly , both sides have made america ’ s trade deficit a justification for supporting their own views , regardless of whether or not you believe that the us is absorbing more than two-thirds of global excess savings .
the passionate believers portray deficits as the world ’ s 特殊性 , and the evidence that the skeptics are willing to buy , and the skeptics see the collapse of a empire that relies on borrowing and borrowed time .
which is right ?
in my view , one of those who believe that america ’ s collapse may be disappointed , i suspect , is about to end the american exceptionalism .
the gap between per capita income in europe and japan will not widen further , and it will quickly close to the us level .
while the weaknesses highlighted by skeptics will become apparent over the next few years , the outcome is that other countries will creatively emulate the most efficient us institutions , even though such imitation will occur in its own legal , political , and social structures .
of course , japan ’ s financial system has exposed many deeper problems over the past 15 years .
but another important factor contributing to japan ’ s decline is that companies elsewhere are starting to adopt japan ’ s management methods , such as in timely production .
one day , of course , that imitation would threaten the us economy ’ s prospects for development .
perhaps the most dubious argument in the true believers ’ argument is the trade deficit .
america ’ s ability to borrow massively at low interest rates is like providing a boost to the economy , artificially supporting growth in consumption , enabling the government to delay difficult choices between tax and military spending .
one day , the american party will be 曲终人散 .
the us economy may start recession in 2006 , especially when japan ’ s economy continues to recover , america ’ s housing market is a clear weakness , and the us economy ’ s economic recovery is accelerating .
individually , each of these scenarios can not be ruled out , together , together with the perfect storm of the us trade deficit .
there may be another way to end it , but it is difficult to imagine that american exceptionalism will continue indefinitely .
will the us economic party suddenly end in 2006 ?
this is unlikely , but it is not entirely unthinkable .
america ’ s strategy vacuum
new haven – it is clear that policymakers in the united states federal reserve are beginning to start some hesitation with wise quantitative easing ( qe ) .
this is a reasonable hesitation .
this untested policy experiment failed not only to achieve qualified economic recovery , but also to another crisis .
at the united states federal open market committee ( fomc ) , which held its discontent on january 16-17 , “ many participants have expressed concerns about the potential costs and risks of further purchases of assets . ”
the participants worry about the possibility of an exit from quantitative easing , and fear that the fed ’ s portfolio of securities will rapidly increase capital losses ( the fed ’ s current portfolio of jgbs , and will reach $ 4 trillion by the end of the year ) .
regardless of how serious it is , they ignore the biggest weakness of the fed ’ s unprecedented strategy : emphasizing short-term tactics more than long-term strategies .
the fed , appalled by the crisis of 2007-2008 , has repeatedly added to the 注于 strategy , following two rounds of quantitative easing , following two rounds of open-ended quantitative easing , and thus deepening a misdiagnosis of the problem .
the federal open market committee found a false sense of security in the first round of quantitative easing ( when massive injections of liquidity were reached at the height of a crisis in fear of a crisis ) , mistakenly believing that the right model for follow-up action has been found .
this approach is likely to work if the us economy is to suffer from a cyclical malady of a short shortfall of aggregate demand .
in these circumstances , countercyclical policies like john maynard keynes , fiscal and monetary , and monetary policies can eventually compensate for insufficient demand and start the economy again .
but it is not just a temporary cyclical malady , but also a chronic malady : a protracted balance-sheet recession that continues to capture us households , which account for roughly 70 % of us gdp .
two bubbles in housing and credit that us households borrowed freely were long gone .
but the resulting impact did not end : in 2012 , the household debt burden still accounts for 113 % of personal disposable income ( which has been 75 % since the twentieth century ) , compared to just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % in 1999 ) .
it is not hard to imagine that the us consumer , which focuses on balance-sheet repair , has not taken a 吞下 page .
instead , they have cut spending .
inflation-adjusted personal-consumption spending has grown by only 0.8 % in five years , the most severe and persistent slowdown in consumer demand since world war ii .
the brute force of massive monetary stimulus would do nothing to address the cyclical remedies .
on the contrary , in the process of healing monetary policy , the restoration of balance-sheet repair should take sufficient attention .
there should be a reduction in “ underwater ” mortgages ( i.e. , the loans that exceed the current market value of households ) and phasing out the foreclosure overhang of more than 15 million households .
what else can the rest of the us homeowners have to escape from the housing market ?
other measures also include strengthening savings incentives , and the financial safety of us households , which suffered huge losses in the great depression , were financial security .
the relevant measures should also include broadening individual retirement accounts and 401k pension plans , creating low-income families ( most of which are not retiring ) , and ending the financial repression of the fed ’ s zero-interest-rate policy .
to be sure , such policies are controversial .
debt relief brings us to the thorny ethical concerns of reckless and irresponsible behavior .
but addressing the problem of underwater mortgages could translate underwater mortgages into so-called “ 追索 debt , ” leaving unpaid liabilities to the threat of a debtor ’ s all assets , thereby giving the us a new sense of responsibility to deleverage .
timing is equally important when it comes to encouraging savings .
to avoid a surge in aggregate demand could lead to insufficient aggregate demand in 3-5 years .
the main advantage of the proposed proposal is to focus more on tactics than tactical , so it is better to address the balance-sheet problems that are actually afflicting the economy .
with a typical laissez-faire free-for-all , the us has always turned strategic issues to the invisible hand of the market .
over time , it is often misguided and often misguided for governments to deal with abrupt problems .
as a result , the fed seems more concerned about cleaning up , rather than avoiding a new crisis .
the same is true of america ’ s fiscal policy , which is increasingly pressing in the final deadline : fiscal expenditure on january 1 , spending on spending on march 1 , the continued march 27 budget , and a new debt ceiling on may 18 .
the 债券市场 bond market , which has been tested as the ultimate test of this shortsighted practice , is likely to have the next bubble .
the dangers of america ’ s strategy vacuum and short-termism have long been present .
harvard business school professor michael porter famously put this question in an article in a harvard business review .
he has focused on the short-term “ operational effectiveness ” of business decisions and misaligned incentives , and the worrisome dichotomy between the “ operational efficiency ” ( costs , outsourcing , and restructuring ) and the long-term vision of a successful strategy .
although corporate managers , porter ’ s remarks have a key impact on current us policy debates .
a successful long-term strategy can not be seen as a successful long-term strategy .
the internal debate within the federal open market committee implies that , for too long , central banks have finally begun to recognize the consequences of a policy that is misguided to the wrong problem .
there are similar controversies in fiscal policy .
can america finally face up to its strategic vacuum ?
america ’ s political class rivalry
new york – the united states is now in a fight against itself .
this month , president barack obama agreed to further tax cuts between the house of representatives and the house of representatives , which was supposed to be the beginning of a new bipartisan consensus , but in my view that it was a battle around the core values of american politics .
in many countries , conflicts about public morality and national strategies ultimately boil down to money , which is particularly true in the us .
america ’ s annual budget deficit is $ 1 trillion , and that will worsen as the new tax deal is implemented .
but the problem is that corruption in the us is absent from corruption .
a party – the republican party – will put the tax cut above all else .
the democrats are politically motivated , including health care , education , training , and infrastructure .
but the democrats , like the republicans , are keen to provide tax cuts for their campaign sponsors – rich americans – for tax cuts .
the result is a dangerously dangerous mixture .
the us budget deficit is very large and unsustainable .
the poor are suffering from cuts in social programs and weak job markets .
every eight americans rely on food stamps for food .
but , despite the circumstances , when a political party wants to reduce overall tax revenues , another political party chooses to be easily tempted by its superior 本职 , in order to please its wealthy donors .
more incredibly , this frenzy of tax cuts emerged after three decades of elitist fiscal management .
since ronald reagan ’ s election in 1981 , america ’ s budget system has been used as a way to help those who are running large wealth services at the top of the distribution chain .
surprisingly , the richest 1 % of us households have more capital than the bottom 90 % of households .
the annual income of the richest 1.2 million households is higher than the poorest 24 million households .
the democrats ’ real intentions are to ensure that these income and wealth advantages persist .
so , of course , they also fear that everyone else will demand that the budget deficit be stopped by raising taxes on the rich .
after all , when the rest of the us is suffering , people living in rich people are getting better .
it is fair to impose more taxes on them .
the republicans can do everything to stop this .
they won , at least now .
but they also want to 乘胜追击 – a couple of years before the bush administration ’ s proposals to return the us tax rate – to a long-term victory next spring .
their leaders in the house of representatives have made clear that they will cut public spending significantly to reduce the deficit .
ironically , there is one area where spending is necessary – military .
but that is where most republicans are reluctant to touch .
the way they cut spending is not to end the long-term war in afghanistan , but to eliminate unnecessary weapons , but reduce education , health , and other benefits for the poor and working-class sectors .
but i don ’ t think they will succeed .
most americans now agree that the republican language should be cut by cutting public spending , rather than raising taxes .
but when the draft budget is finally introduced , there will be growing resistance .
i predict that the old poor and working-class communities have started to fight for social justice .
that may take some time .
everything is going around how to run elections , and these activities have become extremely expensive .
the just-concluded midterm elections cost an estimated $ 4.5 billion , while most donors are large firms and the rich .
these large forces – many of which operate covertly under us law – are relentlessly maintaining the interests of those at the top of the distribution of the pyramid .
but what is certain is that both parties are implicated .
there is already talk that obama will raise more than $ 1 billion for his re-election campaign .
this money will certainly not come from the poor .
the problem for the rich is that , outside of military areas , the areas of spending cuts are less expensive than those of the poor and working classes .
does the us really need to cut health-care security and retirement income ? in the us , it is reasonable to cut spending on education by cutting education spending ?
can the us continue to let its own infrastructure deteriorate ?
rich people will try to achieve this , but they will ultimately fail .
obama won the presidency with promises of change .
yet these promises remain unfulfilled .
his government is full of wall street bankers .
his senior subordinates deserted him and joined the banks , as his director peter 奥斯泽格 recently did .
he himself is often prepared to serve the interests of the powerful class , without his own bottom line , with any “ compromise . ”
if this continues , a third party that promises to eliminate america ’ s political habits and restore social justice and fairness will rise .
that will take time .
the entire political system has been distorted by both parties .
but the real change will come coming .
the republicans believe that it is wrong to get the political system wrong , with the use of the rich and the rich at the behest of the rich .
america ’ s problem goes beyond wall street
cambridge – with less than two months of america ’ s presidential election , attention is focused on the challenges that the us economy faces in the next president .
we are in the midst of a financial crisis that was caused by serious mispricing and the collapse of the housing bubble that the us generates during the last five years .
the initial subprime problem has now spread to the entire real-estate and other asset classes .
the housing problem has deepened the financial crisis , which is reducing the supply of credit needed to sustain economic activity .
indeed , the financial crisis has deteriorated in recent weeks , reflected in the fed ’ s takeover of a 半官方 mortgage company fannie mae and freddie mac that could cost the us billions of dollars – and the sale of lehman brothers ’ bankruptcy and merrill lynch securities .
ultimately , these financial failures reflect a downward spiral of housing prices and a growing share of households with negative assets ( that is , the stock market ’ s market capitalization ) .
the stakes are high because mortgages in the us are often “ no recourse ” loans .
if homeowners default , creditors can take on property , but they can not make up for other assets or incomes .
we can not be sure how much lower house prices will fall .
experts say that a 15 % decline will have to be returned to the bubble ’ s previous price path .
but even if home prices go back to that point , no one can stop it .
the widening gap between mortgage debt and house prices will continue to rise .
many homeowners who have the ability to repay mortgage payments would opt to default , and to rental their homes , until home prices continue to fall again .
as homeowners with negative equity defaults , the foreclosures of the foreclosures exacerbate the supply of prices further .
lower house prices lead to more negative assets , resulting in more defaults and foreclosures .
it is not clear what kind of power will prevent this self-reinforcing process .
falling house prices are critical to the financial crisis and economic prospects , because securities and other 衍生 securities based on mortgage-backed securities are a leading asset for financial institutions .
before home prices stabilize , markets do not have any confidence in the value of these securities .
and that means that financial institutions that hold these assets can not be confident about the ability and solvency of their counterparties ’ assets , or even their value for capital .
without such confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity is depressed .
moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets are borrowed mainly , credit shortages exacerbate demand for their debt reduction .
because financing is difficult and costly , they reduce debt reduction by lending .
but america ’ s macroeconomic weakness extends far beyond the contraction of credit supply , which has reduced household wealth to reduce consumption spending .
declining employment has reduced wages .
high food and energy prices depress real incomes further .
the decline in the rest of the world and regional economic dynamism is also reducing demand for us exports .
i personally believe that the fed is right to respond to the federal funds rate and created a new set of credit initiatives .
low interest rates make the dollar more competitive , but , given the failure of real estate and the functioning of credit markets , monetary policy seems to have lost traction .
the us congress and the bush administration implemented a $ 100 billion tax cut to stimulate consumer spending .
those of us who support this policy understand that history and economic theory prove to be useless , but we believe that this time may be different .
the argument against our view is that “ a victory for experience is a triumph for experience . ”
ultimately , our hopes were frustrated .
official national income in the second quarter has been released , indicating that tax rebates have little effect on stimulating consumption .
80 % of all 退税款 are deposited into banks or their debts .
few have been added to existing spending .
so it is the us : in a financial crisis , the economy is headed for recession , with monetary policy having moved to the maximum , and fiscal transfers are weak .
at least this is an unenviable situation for any incoming president .
阿林顿 – the united states and myanmar have resumed diplomatic relations at a breakneck pace .
a year ago , both countries were not ambassadors .
in may , president thein sein became the first myanmar leader to visit the white house for almost a half-century .
but is the obama administration too quick to accept that last year ’ s most brutal regimes in the world ?
or , in turn , is decisive us support essential to myanmar ’ s fledgling reform process ?
in 1948 , myanmar was independent of the country , which had been ruled by secretive military blocs since 1962 .
in 2010 , myanmar ’ s military junta held a blatantly rigged election that the opposition refused to participate .
but , in 2011 , thein sein , who served as prime minister under the junta ’ s identity , began to take a great step forward as president before he took office .
unlike previous attempts to reform the previous rulers , sein ’ s actions are concrete and meaningful .
one important change is the release of hundreds of political prisoners , including aung san suu kyi , the most famous opponent of the system , who was almost 15 years since house arrest .
moreover , sein held talks with suu kyi , a nobel peace prize laureate and leader of the national league of democracy ( nld ) , to negotiate a transition to civilian rule .
the subsequent elections strengthened hope for myanmar ’ s democratic future .
in 1990 , the nld won 80 % of the seats in parliament , but the junta promptly announced that the results were ineffective and arrested suu kyi .
in 2012 , the nld won 43 of the 44 seats that it fought , while the junta accepted suu kyi as a legitimate leader in the reform movement .
moreover , sein has engaged with the 克伦 , kachin , and other ethnic minorities – groups that have suffered decades of official persecution and abuse .
transforming myanmar ’ s economy to international trade has transformed the country ’ s economic capital , rangoon , which is now at least opening up from six countries ’ capital secrets , with the streets now running with imported cars .
in some areas , however , reform has been slow .
indeed , in terms of human rights and minority protection , myanmar may even be regressing .
the emancipation process exposed myanmar ’ s long-standing religious divisions , leading to a series of sectarian violence against muslim minorities .
from the coastal coast to the island of 密铁拉 and 贡 , buddhists incited violence against muslims ( and sometimes , in turn ) , while local officials often drag on religious bloodletting .
when obama met in washington with sein , he condemned the violence against myanmar ’ s muslims and displaced many of them .
on the same day , the state department issued its annual report on religious freedom , and myanmar ranked among the world ’ s eight most repressive countries on religious intervention .
not always .
although myanmar is a buddhist country , dozens of religious and ethnic communities have long lived coexist .
in the heart of yangon , 金顶 金顶 , the 宝塔 金顶 and the construction of the bengali mosque , is gaining ground .
in order to consolidate the peace and stability needed to consolidate myanmar ’ s democratic transition , both sein and aung san suu kyi need to take the lead , making it all the more representative of all burma ’ s citizens .
muslims need to be assured of their security and full civil rights .
the obama administration has made significant political capital bets , betting on myanmar ’ s promise .
and , indeed , the pace of change in myanmar over the last two years has been a remarkable one .
how it handles these ( and not yet ) problems will determine whether the us supports the decision in myanmar .
the renminbi realist
new york – for seven years , the united states has held up the renminbi ’ s exchange rate , and thus will divert attention from other important issues of the relationship .
the upcoming strategic and economic dialogue between the us and china will be an opportunity to test ( and rethink ) america ’ s strategic priorities .
since 2005 , the us congress has repeatedly distanced itself from lawmakers , trying to save hard-pressed american workers from the threat of a presumed cheap renminbi .
bipartisan support for this approach began with the senator charles schumer , the liberal democratic democratic party ( liberal democratic party ) and lindsey graham , the first renminbi bill .
the case for legislative action is surprisingly simple : since 2005 , the us average merchandise trade deficit has reached 4.4 % of gdp , with china accounting for 35 % , and is believed to be the result of its manipulation of the renminbi ’ s exchange rate .
a large number of politicians , businessmen , and economists , insisting on the renminbi ’ s appreciation , should be imposing sanctions on china .
the american public resonates with it .
polls in 2011 , 61 % of americans believed that china was a serious economic threat .
thus , the currency debate looms as a major topic for the upcoming presidential election .
“ enough is enough . ”
the nine times will be obama ’ s republican candidate , mitt romney , who would soon announce china ’ s manipulation of the renminbi as illegal .
but , while this logic is appealing , it is wrong .
first , the us trade deficit is multilateral : the us ran deficits with 88 countries in 2010 .
multilateral imbalances – especially a multilateral imbalance that goes back to saving shortfalls – can not be addressed by pressuring bilateral exchange rates .
in fact , america ’ s main threat is domestic .
blaming china will merely delay the heavy lifting of the domestic burden – namely , by cutting budget deficits and encouraging households to save income rather than relying on asset bubbles .
second , since 2005 , the renminbi has appreciated by % % against the dollar , much more than the 27.5 % required by the original schumer-graham bill .
the chinese learned the lessons of japan – particularly japan ’ s disastrous contribution to the catastrophic effects of the yen ’ s sharp appreciation in the 1985 plaza accord – and opted for a gradual appreciation .
china ’ s recent efforts to internationalize the renminbi , open the capital account , and increase monetary transactions , undoubtedly indicate that its ultimate goal is market-based , fully convertible renminbi .
third , china ’ s external imbalances have been greatly improved .
the imf estimates that china ’ s current-account surplus as a share of gdp will shrink to 2.3 % in 2012 , at 10.1 % in 2007 .
us officials have long believed that china ’ s savings glut is an important reason for global instability .
but they need to do the same thing : america ’ s current-account deficit is expected to reach $ 510 billion this year , and is 2.8 times higher than china ’ s surplus .
finally , china has shifted from the world ’ s factory to its assembly line .
research shows that , in china ’ s exports to the us , only 20-30 % of chinese exports reflect added value in china .
roughly 60 % of china ’ s exports are just the 出货 of “ foreign investment companies , ” essentially china ’ s subsidies to global multinationals .
apple is a case in point .
china should not be allowed to face america ’ s first economic threat , and trade relations with china should be viewed as an opportunity .
the biggest component of us aggregate demand – consumers – is now very far off .
households are busy repairing severely damaged balance sheets , with an average annual growth rate of just 0.5 % over the last four years .
consumer deleveraging will likely continue for years to come , making the us desperate for new sources of growth .
exports are one of the most powerful candidates for growth .
china is now america ’ s third-largest and fastest-growing export market .
there is no doubt that china has the potential to fill the void left by us consumers .
the key to seizing this opportunity is the chinese market – and , in particular , by china ’ s upcoming support for consumer-led rebalancing .
historically , china has developed an open development model , which imports 28 % of gdp since 2002 , nearly three times as high as it was in the 1960 ’ s .
so , given the increment to domestic demand , china ’ s penchant for external resources is much stronger .
with the rise of chinese consumers , a wide range of us goods – from a new generation of information technology and biotechnology to auto components and aircraft – will be secured .
the same is true for services .
china ’ s service sector accounts for only 43 % of total gdp , relatively small .
america ’ s global business services are expanding indefinitely in china ’ s expanding prospects , particularly in the labor-intensive logistics sector – wholesale and retail trade , transport , and logistics – and 处理 market segments in financial , health-care , and data storage .
china needs to focus on the us-china trade agenda , focusing on expanding market access in the various areas – against china ’ s policy and government procurement priorities and indigenous innovation .
some progress has already been made , but it is not enough – for example , for china to join the world trade organization ’ s government procurement agreement .
at the same time , the us must rethink the antiquated cold war that limits chinese purchases of technology-intensive goods .
for a growth-starved us , the chances of entering the market extend far beyond the currency threat .
the 中国 chinese consumer is about to wake up .
this fits with one of america ’ s greatest strengths – its zeal to enter new markets .
it is a shame if the us squandered this rare opportunity in the upcoming strategic and economic dialogue .
america ’ s retreat from asia
on august 16 , president george w. bush announced that the us intends to withdraw its troops from asia , though the withdrawal of troops would not necessarily undermine the stability of the asia-pacific region , particularly north korea , but a close consultation between the us and its allies .
but until now , the us has done a bad job .
if the inevitable withdrawal is to succeed now , it is seriously considering the need for south korea and japan .
on the contrary , unilateral withdrawal of troops unilaterally would undermine the fundamental mission of the us military : to ensure that deterrence , stability , and nuclear non-proliferation in north korea and the region are deterrence .
the withdrawal plan raises many concerns .
many japanese fear that japan will become america ’ s stronghold in asia , which may well exceed the scope of the bilateral security agreement in the united states .
any increase in china ’ s military cooperation would cause alarm .
in june , the bush administration announced that it would withdraw from 37 million troops in south korea until 2005 , including the second 装甲旅 装甲旅 , including second 步兵师 , which has already been established to 派驻 iraq .
this change is part of the so-called `` us military buildup , '' which aims to bring the military to a more urgently needed area in the region .
but the unilateral nature of the announcement and the withdrawal of the military ’ s immediate agenda raised panic in south korea , and japan may , as is likely , to fear that the withdrawal will bring us troops to a serious crisis .
south korea ’ s genuine fear of a military withdrawal would make north korea a assertiveness , thereby weakening the effectiveness of the us military , while refusing to abandon its nuclear ambitions .
indeed , we should not forget that north korea retains 1.1 million troops .
moreover , the bush administration ’ s announcement of the withdrawal plan weakens the trust of the us-south korea alliance .
america ’ s unilateral announcement has raised domestic rumors that the withdrawal must be linked to a growing anti-american tide in south korea , particularly south korea ’ s reluctance and delay the deployment of 3,500 homegrown soldiers to iraq .
the bush administration tried to counter the rumor that withdrawal will not weaken the us military ’ s capacity to contain it , because the us will retain its dominant presence in the region .
moreover , the us plans to introduce some $ 11 billion in high-tech equipment in five years to strengthen south korea ’ s own forces .
militarily , this argument makes sense .
but , from a political and psychological perspective , this withdrawal , not to mention specific agendas and arrangements , raises questions about the future of the us-south korea security alliance , which appears to have a few problems , without common objectives , and no one .
and the bush administration emphasized : `` the us views the country as a strong and stable alliance , and we will strive to maintain south korea ’ s security and maintain alliances with seoul .
if the washington commitment is serious , it should be transformed into a long-term , comprehensive alliance that can survive the immediate crisis - even after reunification – with the bush administration ’ s chief of government , with the head of the south korean government .
to reduce concerns , restoring trust , the us and south korea need to reaffirm the mutual interests of both countries : the goal of pursuing containment , non-proliferation , stability , and democracy in asia and the korean peninsula .
once they are determined to continue the alliance for these purposes , officials risk establishing guidelines for concrete security cooperation .
whether us troops withdraw south korea , or from the demilitarized zone to the south of seoul , they must follow through on principles .
to achieve this , the us must put south korea on board as its partner , with the right to speak on its own security interests .
south korea is a 51 years of us partners , and east asia ’ s third largest economic power , the region ’ s third largest economy , has the right to say it fully .
despite anti-american sentiment in some south koreans , most people want us troops to remain in south korea .
on the korean peninsula , the interests of china , japan , russia , and the us are directly linked to peace and denuclearization , one of the world ’ s most important security goals .
as for this reason , the us and south korea must revisit the future .
america ’ s schizophrenic economy
the news that the us economy 渐行 in early march was once again depicted as a scenario that only a lunatic patient can draw .
real investment ( adjusted for the decline in the prices of high-tech and 信息 capital goods ) continues to grow sharply .
production and sales are consistent with the belief that real gdp growth is consistent with the putative 4 % annual gdp growth rate .
nonetheless , employment remains depressed : america ’ s net job creation remains stagnant .
this does not mean that employment in the us can not grow .
over the past year , the us employs roughly 300,000 people – an annual growth rate of 1.7 % – compared to the us .
more than 250,000 people are employed in business and professional services – an annual growth rate of 1.6 % .
this is easy to say .
total nominal spending in the us grows at 5.5 % annually , and annual inflation is 1.5 % .
overall productivity growth is 3.5 % per year .
so there is a simple equation : 5.5 % -1.5 % - 0.5 % .
employment growth is only about 0.5 % , because , despite strong growth in labor productivity , it needs to increase the employment rate .
it is clear from the growth of us labor productivity .
the small part of its growth was a simple acceleration : in the current economic situation , america ’ s jobless population is approaching the historic highs of world war ii .
the larger part of the increase in labor productivity stems from the revolution in computers and communications technology – making it much more effective for high-tech capital to be effective .
the drive for `` new economic '' growth is also difficult to fathom .
what is surprising is that new wealth does not go to dot shareholders , but to buyers and users who flow to high-tech capital , and the consumers they serve .
why is this surprising ?
at the end of the nineteenth century , the huge investment and technological advances received by the us railway system seemed to benefit everyone except the railway company ’ s shareholders and creditors .
still , some of the growth in us labor productivity stems from the fact that high-tech capital has enabled us companies to invest heavily in 改造 and networked processes to enable them to adapt to computerized and networked demands .
for the us , the annual growth rate of labor productivity growth , rather than in 1995 , is amazing .
this means that only one country has added $ 250 billion in annual value added to world income .
this is equivalent to increasing the productivity of the world equivalent to one-quarter of india ’ s .
yet the continued rise in us labor productivity has brought a huge political dimension to president george w. bush .
domestic demand for domestic demand , which has been 凯歌 in the last few decades , has suddenly become a serious problem , and the resulting slack in labor markets has brought bush to blame ( to some extent ) .
but it is an excellent opportunity for everyone to be unemployed for all of those who are unemployed with the lack of domestic demand .
as long as us policymakers resist the temptation , not from political interests to pursue `` safeguard output and employment , '' the policies that would undermine the economy ’ s growth and employment would ultimately lead to strong growth and strong growth in real profits .
as an economy leading the world , the us is notoriously difficult to ensure economic growth , because it must create – and not just – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations .
if the us economy is to develop at current rates , it is good news for other advanced economies , particularly in the world , where the world is more able to participate in the global division of labor in the united states , owing to the strong advances in computers and communications technology .
as a result , america ’ s economic paradox has shown that the world has entered an era of extraordinary opportunity - premise that we need to take the full and patient grasp of them .
america ’ s 焦土
the us economy shows signs of a perilous situation – from large fiscal and current-account deficits to falling home prices and falling prices for a weak dollar .
but something that has not been visible in any economic indicator is likely to drive many economic indicators : the deterioration in us management – which has weakened not only many large us corporations , but also the 书写 of american firms .
paradoxically , in the us , one indicator has been robust – productivity – that may be the clearest sign of this problem .
when it comes to productivity , managers either invest in employee training , more efficient manufacturing processes , and invest in the short term , or they seem to have done so in the short term .
productivity is a measure of output per hour hours .
of course , no company can do that , but many us companies are already shedding workers and middle managers – 19 % more than they were in january 2008 .
meanwhile , those who stay behind must work harder , often without increasing wages .
workers ’ wages adjusted after inflation adjusted in 2007 , and continue to trend in the decade .
this , too , is “ productive ” – until these people quit or become exhausted .
a sustainable company is not a collection of “ human resources , ” but a group of people .
its power is rooted in its people , its culture , and the goodwill created by its customers and suppliers .
so , when workers and middle managers leave them , they take them not just to many important information , but also to their company ’ s heart and soul , which has a profound impact on us competitiveness .
consider high-tech , where people think that the us should surpass other countries .
in november 2006 , the high-tech trade deficit extended to 2005 , according to the prospect of an american innovation group comprising prominent universities , think tanks , industrial trade associations , and businesses .
this is not clothing or cars , but the most renowned export sector in the us .
this deficit reflects a potential shortfall of research .
in the 25 of the 25 companies that the us patent was most likely in 2006 , only eight were american companies .
perhaps it helps explain why the institute of reputation in new york had more than six million surveys in 2007 , in order to “ most respected companies in the world , ” ranking the first us companies in the first place , ranking the first 25 us companies .
no one can determine how much of the recent increase in productivity in us productivity in recent years has been due to squeezing human capital , because it is not measured .
but it is clear that the us has much to do with this strategy , because it is not only because they must do so , but also because they do not have the financial expectations of wall street analysts .
managers ’ increased focus on maximizing shareholder value won many supporters in the 1980 ’ s , when the rules of financial markets that do not account for individual sentiments force companies to become more productive and innovative .
and , indeed , the us , in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s , is likely to owe significant investment in information communications technology to a large proportion of the investment .
but , when the marginal productivity gains from these investments began to fall , senior managers ’ survival and compensation continued to be tied to the stock market ’ s performance .
as a result , many senior managers have learned just how to manage their companies ’ short-term stock prices at the expense of their products and customers .
moreover , because maximizing shareholder value is not a good incentive for workers and middle managers , the company ’ s board of directors centers on power , and thus encourages a “ heroic ” form of leadership that and others leave .
indeed , in many cases , ceos – often the “ superstar ” 空降 in the wall street – are now the company , even though they know little about companies , customers , and competitors .
this shift to “ heroic ” leadership can be seen from ballooning ceo compensation .
according to a report from january 2008 , the top 50 corporate ceos in the 50 us companies are now almost three times more compensation than european workers – more than their own workers ’ compensation .
until recently , america ’ s asset bubble – first stock-market bubbles , followed by bubbles in the housing market – masked the potential decline of us companies .
but the bubble itself is caused by the same governance pathologies as those afflicting the real economy .
after all , mismanagement encourages mortgage lenders to provide artificially low “ 诱惑 ” interest rates to lure potential homeowners .
those who bought these mortgages never bothered to investigate their potential value – a serious responsibility for managing responsibility .
now that the bubble has burst , america ’ s current economic malaise may be much worse than it was before , because us firms have been slow and cautious to rebuild .
a sharp fall in the dollar could help the us to reduce its massive trade deficit , but it should not be expected that any sustained improvement should be sustained .
while american economists , politicians , and business leaders have been seeking to sell their management to foreign countries for years , many companies elsewhere have not been sold .
as a result , the economy is healthier than the us economy .
make no mistake : the problem is in the us , and only in the us .
america ’ s self-defeating hegemony
when i wrote the “ end of history ” 20 years ago , i didn ’ t expect us actions and misjudgments to make anti-americanism an important symbol of global politics .
but , especially after the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , that fact has taken place , owing to four mistakes in the bush administration .
first , a “ pre-emptive ” strategy devised in response to the 2001 attacks was inadequately expanded to include other so-called “ rogue ” states that threatened to develop weapons of mass destruction .
to be sure , a preemptive strategy to treat 恐怖分子 terrorists with weapons of mass destruction is reasonable .
but such a strategy can not be the core of all non-proliferation policies , guided by the guidance of us military intervention , aimed at preventing the development of nuclear weapons .
the costs of executing such policies are too costly ( in iraq ’ s hundreds of billions of dollars and tens of thousands of civilians , and the number is widening ) .
the bush administration has thus avoided military confrontation with north korea and iran , even though the us applauded israel ’ s osirak reactor in 1981 , given that it delayed saddam ’ s nuclear program for several years .
but , after all , the success of that attack itself meant that such a limited intervention would not be replicated , because the potential spread is learned to bury , covert , or duplicate their nascent weapons programs .
the second mistake is to judge the world ’ s behavior in terms of america ’ s exercise of hegemony .
many in the bush administration believed that even without approval by the united nations security council or nato , the success of the military ’ s success would be legitimized by us military force .
this was the pattern of many american actions during the cold war and the balkan balkans of the 1990 ’ s , when people called it “ leadership ” rather than “ unilateralism . ”
in the wake of the iraq war , however , conditions have changed : the united states has become so strong relative to the rest of the world that it is becoming angry at the expense of america ’ s closest allies .
the structural anti-americanism caused by the global distribution of power was starkly apparent before the war in iraq , compared to the 全球化 globalization of the united states .
but the “ 当面 ” of the bush administration has made anti-americanism even worse – a model that continues through the war in iraq .
america ’ s third mistake is to overestimate the role of conventional military power in a weak state of states and transnational organizations , at least in the middle east .
it is worth considering why a military more than any other country in human history , and that military money has been funded militarily by all other countries combined , is still not in a small country of 24 million people .
this is at least partly because the us is facing a social force that is not centralized , and thus can not be reined in by traditional military capabilities , forcing or manipulating them .
israel made a similar mistake when it considers that it could use a strong conventional military force in lebanon last summer to destroy hezbollah .
both israel and the us are nostalgic for the world of the twenty-first century , and they are so convinced that they have the most traditional power in the world .
but nostalgia has made both countries wrong to estimate the challenges they face , whether by al-qaeda ’ s iraq in iraq , or by hezbollah and syria .
this linkage is true in the case of hezbollah , but the various actors in the cyber community have their own social roots , rather than being manipulated by regional forces .
this explains why the use of conventional power has only frustrating results .
finally , the bush administration ’ s use of military power is not only a lack of coercive tactics or norms , but also less power .
in iraq alone , the bush administration has wrongly estimated the power of weapons of mass destruction , and failed to develop adequate occupation programs and then failed quickly to adapt quickly .
so far , the us has suspended all of its simple problems in iraq , such as raising money for democracy promotion .
the call for war in iraq , then a mess in iraq , is now stoking the battle against iran .
what is the rest of the world to believe in a better and more decisive fight against a more determined , more determined , and more determined fight against the fight ?
but the fundamental problem remains the distribution of power in the international system .
any country with equal status in the us , even in democracies , will be tempted to exercise its grip on power more recklessly .
the founding of america ’ s founding state also holds no limits on power , even if it is politically legitimate , and it is based on a constitutional system that has established internal devolution , so that it has a constitutional system to limit its leaders .
there is no such system for today ’ s global scale , which may explain why the us is in trouble .
a more balanced distribution of power , even under a global system of incomplete democracy , would reduce the temptation of cautious use of power .
america ’ s self-inflicted decline
melbourne – the united states and europe are responsible for the continuation of the broad-based prosperity that lasted six decades after world war ii .
politics has become a discredited profession throughout the west , with little difference .
tomorrow is always more important than next week , and next week than next week , without any effort to pursue the long-term future .
now the west is paying a price .
president barack obama ’ s instincts may be the exception , but he must not only fight america ’ s powerful conservative party , but also the demagogic populism of the tea party ’ s party , which could lead to the defeat of the conservative party in 2012 , and thus seriously damage america ’ s interests .
america ’ s allies around the world watched the recent spat over the recent increase in the federal government ’ s debt ceiling , which was surprised by the us congress ’ s failure to reach a forward-looking compromise agreement .
by contrast , such an outcome represents the tea party ’ s massive mobilization of the tea party , which aims to minimize the government ’ s debt and spending ( some even oppose the establishment of a central bank ) , and continue to impose a 减税 tax cut for george w. bush .
america ’ s current fiscal problems are rooted in a long-term absence of spending .
bush ’ s war in afghanistan and iraq , and his approach to the “ global war on terror , ” made the overall situation rapidly worsening , making the situation impossible .
in fact , obama inherited almost impossible mess .
with the debt ceiling reaching out , it is increasingly clear that good governance is possible in the us .
the united states ’ presidential election in the next few months will debate which spending should be cut , and such squabbles are meaningless .
the case in recent weeks has given us no reason to think that us congressmen will escape from partisan partisanship and ask themselves how to do so in the us .
in that case , the return of financial markets to extreme instability is not surprising .
spending cuts authorized by the debt-ceiling debate would reduce economic activity , thereby undermining growth and increasing the difficulty of reducing debt reduction .
further fiscal stimulus would also be accompanied by a corresponding risk , owing to the debt ceiling , as well as a more ominous factor : the us has become excessive debt , with signs that us treasury holders ultimately are tired of falling 偿以 currencies .
more importantly , china ’ s call for a new reserve currency is due to its frustration with major national governments , such as the us and europe , that are unable to manage their economic affairs in economic affairs .
china recognizes the enormous difficulties facing the us ( and , indeed , china ’ s recognition of it more clearly than the us itself ) , and it is not easy to return to legitimate governance , economic stability , and strong growth , given the current poisonous political atmosphere in washington .
america ’ s leadership on world affairs is beginning to weaken , and today ’ s economic problems are strengthening this trend .
obama needs bipartisan support for his ( very mainstream ) policies to reverse the decline of america ’ s decline , but it seems unlikely that the us congress is sticking to a principled approach to its legislative obligations .
if germany ’ s 的 european stabilization act succeeds , america ’ s position will erode further , and the world ’ s central banks will begin to see the euro as a reliable reserve currency .
the current reality illustrates the transfer of power that we have never experienced in our lifetimes .
china has accumulated considerable economic advantages relative to the us , which would not only constrain america ’ s influence in financial markets , but would also limit its ability to use its military capabilities .
this is likely to be a good thing if the us is forced to return to what the international-relations scholar joseph nye called “ soft power and multilateral diplomacy . ”
but this approach , particularly its tea party wing , seems to be a curse , and that they might have lost courage in many asians who are nervous about china ’ s growing military might .
it is not entirely good for china to sell or stop buying us treasury securities , as it does in the opposite direction .
year after year , china ’ s markets are increasingly global , and their domestic markets are starting to account for a growing percentage of gdp .
this will lead to china ’ s long-term need for a stronger dollar .
the us must restore its economic order before china loses its interest in supporting the dollar .
in the aftermath of the war in the aftermath of world war ii , the us has learned from a terrible cost to the effective use of military power .
america ’ s goal can not be achieved in vietnam .
the final situation in iraq can not be determined before the withdrawal of us troops from iraq .
in afghanistan , where withdrawal dates have been determined , it is hard to believe that a cohesive unified state will eventually be established .
as military power weakens , the importance of economic power is growing .
it is vital to acknowledge that these core realities and the parties needed to address them will be essential to the future of the us , and in the west .
america ’ s socialism against the rich
as people talk about a recovery in the financial crisis , the us banking sector is rethinking how to strengthen it .
in order to prevent another crisis from occurring , politicians are talking about how to reform regulatory norms , and we must focus on the areas where the banks are returning , and that they want to return to the glory of the past .
the past system is good for banks ( though it is good for shareholders ) , so why should they change ?
in fact , we have done little in the aftermath of the crisis , but they have little effect but less competitive than ever before , with banks that have become larger and unable to fail .
it has long been known that us banks are not only failing to fail , but so are large size .
that is why they have been poorly run .
whenever they work , the government restructuring , providing deposit insurance , and holding banks ’ shares .
government officials know that “ zombie ” or otherwise “ zombie ” banks – almost without net assets , “ 死马 ” – are likely to be targeted in order to protect themselves , possibly in order to protect themselves .
if the risk is successful , they will be short-lived , and if they fail , they left the government “ foot . ”
this is not just our imagination , but that of the past .
in the 1980 ’ s , when the savings crisis in the 1980 ’ s , the atm was not “ enough cash , ” and the government was forced to bail out it to avoid the outflow of funds .
in the usual financial restructuring , shareholders generally bear losses on all investments , and bondholders are often new shareholders .
governments may provide additional funds , and new investors must take over the failed banks .
yet the obama administration has introduced a new concept : too large a bank can not restructure .
so not only does it not have to play the bonds , or even the shareholders – all of which depend on government bailouts .
i believe that this line of thinking is wrong .
the obama administration may be a judgment of political pressure and misguided banking .
he has confused bailing out the banks and bailing out banks .
restructuring gives banks a new opportunity : new investors , whether asset collateral or bond restructuring , will be more confident , and other banks would be happy to lend money to them .
if the real value of banks ’ assets is higher than market prices , they will be compensated .
what is clear is that obama ’ s strategy will be very high in both the current and future costs – and , as it stands , he did not achieve a limited goal : restarting lending .
taxpayers have already taken tens of billions of dollars , and are likely to spend more than $ 80 billion in guarantees in the future .
rewriting the rules of the market economy is not just the loss of financial fire , but also those who have caused the financial crisis .
most americans believe that this is extremely unfair , especially when they see the bank ’ s acceptance of the billions of dollars and bonuses and dividends that they pay for themselves .
tearing up social contracts is not so facile .
if such a reform is adopted , it is also a matter of money to make money to individuals , and the losers are on the public side .
this is bound to fail .
if incentives fail , what is the rule of market game ?
banks that are large enough to be restructured know that they can gamble – because the fed provides near-zero interest rates , and money can be provided with money .
some have made this new economic form “ socialism of american socialism . ”
but socialism focuses on ordinary people ’ s interests .
by contrast , the us has offered no help for millions of ordinary americans who lost their homes .
unemployed workers have only 39 weeks of limited unemployment assistance , and they can only be left out .
when they lose their jobs , they also lost health insurance .
the us is quietly providing companies with security guarantees , from commercial banks to investment banks , then insurance companies , and now the auto industry , which is far from finished .
indeed , this is not socialism , but an extension of long-term corporate wealth .
rich people can help to turn their money into the government , while ordinary people do not have social protection .
we must break up these large and failing banks without evidence that such “ financial behemoths ” would benefit society when receiving relief .
if they are not broken up , we will have to limit their mandate considerably .
let them do nothing like the past – gambling after the gamble was borne by others .
for these financial behemoths , there is another issue worth noting : they have strong political forces .
they lobbied the college to work well : first regulations , then taxpayers , and then taxpayers to clean up them .
as they pointed out , regardless of the loss of taxpayers and the global economy , they will be able to weather again .
america ’ s sputnik gambit
new york – august 8 , 2008 , may be the first day of the post-american era , perhaps another “ sputnik ” of the day .
in 1957 , when the soviet union entered the outer space , the american people recognized their country ’ s decline and decided to start trying again .
people will not misunderstand the symbolism and symbolism of the opening ceremonies of the beijing olympic games on august 8 .
this 多媒体 spectacular is not just a reflection of china ’ s lame civilization ; it is also a declaration that china is a major civilization that has a place in the global system and deserves it .
us president george w. bush ’ s cheerful ride to the 示意 , and chinese president hu jintao sat in the position of his throne .
the chinese government has always been obsessed with diplomacy , so it is difficult to imagine that china ’ s government is not deliberately arranged , thereby demonstrating that the us is not in the driver ’ s decline relative to the national decline in national debt .
it is hard to imagine roosevelt or ronald reagan accepting such a position in relative office .
at the same time in his eyes , russia was invading america ’ s closest partner in the caucasus .
russia ’ s clear message to the former soviet republics in disaster deflation is that us protection is not .
what is feared is that russia may be right , in the face of iraq ’ s quagmire , which is difficult to impose on global power .
add to that america ’ s mounting debt , and there is no realistic response to the changing world ’ s prospects for changing the world .
today , in places like darfur , zimbabwe , and georgia , people are witnessing the influence of the post-american world , which is not pretty well .
the us , however flawed in the last five decades , is nonetheless a benign power , despite the rise of new powers like china and india , but whether these countries will be seen like the us remains to be seen .
the new colonialism is returning to africa , where global human rights are regressing , and the world trade system is far more closed .
brutal dictators are free , because they are protected by large powers that benefit from their natural resources .
reversing this trend is not just america ’ s interests , but also the world ’ s interests .
to this end , the us must confirm the enormous challenges that it faces and address it , with the us political campaign funding structured to make a lot of government funding and must be addressed .
in the us , the education system is diverse , and it must be revitalized , with a positive transition from the global elite to the migration system , quickly giving them us citizenship .
the effort to re-establish a foreign-policy consensus that transcends partisan divisions will also make america a more predictable partner for global friends and allies .
moreover , the us must be a respected partner , thereby encouraging china and india to play a more constructive role in international affairs .
the world is not ready to prepare for the post-american era , and countries like india and china must play a far greater role in shoring up the existing world peace regimes than they are needed to build new mechanisms to promote global security , dignity , human rights , and prosperity .
and , in the past , the world needs a new kind of american leader , which should be able to inspire the american people and global partners to address their domestic and domestic problems , and that the agenda should be as bold and progressive as the order created by the ruins of world war ii .
beijing ’ s games may be in the us ’ s moment of sputnik , inspiring the country ’ s sense of meaningful ground for a changing world .
but the us can succeed at home and abroad only by confronting the enormous challenges it faces and taking bold steps to address them .
america ’ s perilous pivot
madrid – the pacific or the middle east ?
this is the first strategic issue facing the us today .
when us president barack obama meets asia ’ s leaders in phnom penh to asia ’ s leaders in phnom penh , the perfect explanation for the us dilemma is the dilemma .
these two geopolitical focal points of the us focus on the us , and one representative of the past .
while asia has played an important role in the us presidential election , china ’ s rise has been repeatedly mentioned , but the us has been mired in the middle east for decades .
in addition to the eternal israel-palestine conflict , the chaos in iraq , the arab spring , syria ’ s civil war , and iran ’ s current nuclear standoff are all attracting us attention .
if iran ’ s crisis is out of control , america ’ s diplomatic priorities will no longer be asia ’ s problem .
but the middle east may be as important as president barack obama ’ s explicit expectation if it is to solve and iranian disputes with iran .
the question is whether the us will have another war in the middle east as a result of declining dependence on middle east energy .
indeed , according to the international energy agency ’ s recent projections by the international energy agency , the revolution in hydrocarbons ( especially shale oil and gas ) in the united states will make the us the world ’ s largest oil producer by 2020 , and the global repercussions will be undeniable .
for the us , energy self-sufficiency is a perfect excuse for a phased withdrawal from the middle east ; once it comes out of dependence on energy , the us can concentrate on dealing with the pacific .
while the need to maintain stable global energy prices and the need for the alliance with israel mean that the us can not get out of the entire middle east , the shift to asia has begun to shift the focus of us strategic priorities before obama ’ s first term .
after his re-election campaign , obama ’ s first foreign trip chose myanmar , thailand , and cambodia – a choice that china can not like , given that all of the countries that began to be china ’ s close ally until democracy began .
asia ’ s economic growth , of course , is growing , but it requires regional security mechanisms and economic integration to control the region ’ s mounting tensions .
as the us scholar 李侃 王缉思 noted in a recent paper at the brookings institution , “ strategic mistrust ” has exacerbated the complexity of the situation .
the basis for harmony in the international system will depend on the strategic trust of the twenty-first century powers .
but how can this be achieved ?
because china ’ s oil imports by 2020 will come from the middle east , one important step will be to pursue china ’ s cooperation to address the region ’ s problems .
after israel ’ s election in january 2013 , iran will again become the primary issue in obama ’ s foreign-policy agenda .
iran ’ s military intervention in iran could trigger a regional , even global instability , the presidential election in june .
the arab world , russia , and china will be forced to show that their positions are strained between a bipolar , 大国 country and intensifying tensions in the pacific .
that is why cooperation with the us can not be carried out with china ’ s strategic interests .
beyond iran , instability in the middle east urgently needs to be stable .
the latest eruption of violent conflict between hamas and israel underscores the importance of reviving the peace process .
syria ’ s civil war , which has led to a growing number of regional powers , has become increasingly like a full-scale war between the sunni muslim and other gulf states , turkey , egypt , and the shia muslim and shia muslims ( iran and hezbollah ) .
iran ’ s leaders seem to believe that the us is more willing to avoid another military operation after more than a decade of high economic and human costs .
this perception seems to confirm american public opinion .
at a recent survey by the chicago council on global affairs , 67 % of americans believe that the iraq war is not worth the war .
moreover , 69 % believe that the terrorist threat that the us faces after the war in afghanistan did not diminish , while 71 % say that iraq ’ s experience suggests that the us should use force more carefully .
but even if americans seem unwilling to invest billions of dollars in foreign adventures yet again , iran ’ s leaders are becoming increasingly besieged by international sanctions on the country ’ s economy .
the two sides may argue that , at least for now , negotiations are the best option .
peaceful resolution of iran would help the us to complete its transition to asia .
after all , the middle east conflict will poison and distort relations in the coming decades , and for the us and china will be the worst possible outcome .
america ’ s suicidal statecraft
since winning the cold war , america ’ s global hegemony has depended on three pillars , namely economic power , military power , and a vast capacity to export popular culture .
the recent rise of a new power like the european union , china , india , and russia , which seeks to restore its lost status , has eroded the ability of the us to engage in unilateral affairs .
even so , the us remains the world ’ s most powerful country ; its decline and its use of power are more than the rise of competitors .
to paraphrase british historians , the us should blame america ’ s leaders for “ suicidal statecraft . ”
consider the middle east .
the us , in the first gulf war in 1991 , has used military force calmly , and the hubris and deceit of today ’ s iraq war are more understandable than the comparison of the two .
in 1991 , the united states formed the most powerful international force since world war ii , and it has led the force in a fully legal war to restore regional balance after saddam hussein ’ s invasion of kuwait .
in 2003 , the united states went to war without its trans-atlantic allies after manipulating false claims .
in doing so , the us has pursued a ludicrous macroeconomic strategy aimed at eliminating iraq ’ s authoritarian regimes , rebuilding the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy throughout the arab world .
the result was utter failure : military failure and a much lower moral position in the us .
not only has the us undermined extreme islamism , but it has legitimized it in iraq and beyond .
indeed , the region ’ s future is not democracy , but the violent divide between the shia and sunnis that the iraq war facilitated .
it is this muslim civil war that allows al-qaeda to recruit recruits .
in iraq , the arab countries that are likely to be the first shia muslim rule , and thereby integration into the expanding shia empire in iran , now see the us as unreliable .
indeed , the us is supposed to be a de facto complicit in the islamist revival of the shia revival .
the gospel of democracy is not very dear for america ’ s arab allies , because the call for democracy is merely encouraging the islamists to challenge the elite today .
there is no doubt that violent islamic fundamentalism has a deeper cause in the decline of arab nationalism .
but the result of america ’ s poor democratic assertion is that it alienated its conservative regional allies and islamist allies alike , alienated from conservative political islam , who can use the ballot box as a means to gain power .
america ’ s biggest strategic blunder in the region should be related to the emergence of iranian power .
the us has destroyed iraq as a 制约性 regional power , and thus a striking blow to its traditional gulf allies , as iraq ’ s ambitions are iran ’ s ambitions .
the us has ceded some strategic assets to iran . khomeini ’ s revolution , in the war with saddam hussein , and the region ’ s export revolution throughout the region , failed to make these strategic assets .
likewise , because iran feels that the notion of a “ pre-emptive war ” in the us has failed in iraq , its nuclear program has been similarly aggressive .
the disastrous us military operation in iraq has made it strategically depressed .
iraq has now become god ’ s playground , and the us can count on a modicum of stability there only by other regional powers .
but the us will remain the most influential external country in the middle east , owing to its failings , not actual power .
america ’ s role in the region can be restored only if the military fails to take the lead in the region , owing to its military failure , which can be restored only by avoiding arrogance and learning from others .
this requires engaging with revolutionary states like iran and syria , respect , and , rather than isolation , from jihadism to political participation , and to lead the international alliance to achieve an arab-israeli peace based on arab league initiative .
the palestinian question is not the source of all middle east troubles , but it can improve the united states ’ standing in the arab world .
more importantly , it will not allow iran to link the popular and arab cause with its own hegemonic ambitions .
america ’ s threat to trans-pacific trade
mumbai – it seems brazen enough that the world trade organization ’ s doha round of global free-trade negotiations is not excessive ( in geneva , the last ministerial conference in geneva ) , and the us continues to make foolish moves – a positive push for the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) .
us president barack obama announced that this was the case with nine asian countries during his recent trip to the region .
in the eyes of a compliant press and unsuspecting public , the agreement is viewed as evidence of us trade leadership .
but the opposite is true , and those who focus on the global trading system also need to know what is happening .
i hope that these knowledge could trigger so-called “ 吸血 effects ” : the exposure of what is hidden in the 暗处 , and the die .
the tpp is the best proof of american industrial lobbies , and congress and the president are the best proof of public policy .
it is now clear that free-trade agreements , both bilateral and multilateral ( in two countries , but not for all ) are built on discrimination .
that is why economists generally call it a preferential trade agreement .
and that is why the us government ’ s public-relations machine has called this discriminatory multilateral trade agreement a “ partnership , ” an attempt to create an aura of hypocrisy and hypocrisy .
countries can , in principle , join the agreement .
japan and canada have also announced plans to join .
but a closer look reveals that china is not within this agenda .
the tpp ’ s agreement is also a political response to china ’ s new offensive , and thus is based on confrontation and containment .
given that the us has added many of its priorities to its trading partners , it is not surprising that the tpp was added to the tpp ’ s agenda , including labor standards and restrictions on capital account , which many of the provisions of the agenda are trying to exclude .
from the start , the tpp ’ s so-called openness was an unmitigated deception .
to achieve this , the agreement ’ s negotiations are in the hands of weaker countries , including vietnam , singapore , and new zealand , who are easily bamboozled and accepted .
only a stronger country like japan can be given to “ leave and leave free ” negotiations .
then the public-relations machine was followed by swift , 开动 provisions that make the tpp a “ high-quality ” trade deal in the twenty-first century , and that , in fact , the us lobby for many lobbying groups , the us lobbies , is not .
america ’ s regional regionalism of its own neighbors shows that it is now trying to promote free trade agreements in the americas .
but the preferred model is to extend the north american free trade agreement ( canada , mexico , and the united states ) to south america and to include a large number of trade-related issues that have nothing to do with trade .
and that will not be acceptable to brazil , the leading actor in the americas ’ free trade agreement , which focuses exclusively on trade issues .
former brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva , also a leader of the world ’ s great trade union , refused to include labor standards and the establishment in trade agreements .
the result of america ’ s behavior in south america is to divide the region into two distinct groups , which may be in asia .
it began to find a place in asia when the us finds itself in the wrong region to pursue a regional zone .
the us ultimately opted for the trans-pacific partnership , simply because china was aggressive in asserting its sovereignty in the south china sea and china ’ s territorial conflict with china .
many asian countries chose to join the deal in order to “ keep the us in the region ” when faced with chinese behavior .
america ’ s design for asian trade is rooted in containment of china , and the tpp ’ s provisions are actually excluding china .
the only way to integrate china ’ s integration into the agreement is to make all of it irrelevant to trade .
of course , us lobbies do not want to make this happen .
america ’ s three deficits
berkeley – a series of reports at the start of the year show that economic recovery in the united states has been boosted .
job creation has increased , and indicators of manufacturing and services have improved , and consumer spending is stronger than expected .
but it is too early to celebrate .
us output growth remains subdued , with the us economy still facing three deficits : the jobs deficit , the investment deficit , and the chronic fiscal deficit , all of which are unlikely to be resolved in an election year .
although output is already higher than in the fourth quarter of 2007 , it is still much lower than in the labor and capacity of the labor force .
the gap – the difference between actual output and potential output – is about 7 % of gdp ( $ 1 trillion ) .
the output gap reflects more than two million jobs , even as employment levels peaked at the peak of the 2007 peak and to absorb the number of people who enter the labor market for every month .
even if the economy grows at 2.5 % in 2012 , as many expected , the employment deficit will not be eliminated , and could continue until 2024 .
the main concern for the us employment deficit is inadequate aggregate demand .
consumption , which accounts for 70 % of total us spending , is constrained by a combination of unemployment , low wages , and a sharp decline in housing prices and consumer wealth .
the rise in consumption in december 2011 was a boost to household saving and a surge in consumer credit .
neither trend is healthy nor sustainable .
as it stands , the unemployment rate is 8.5 % , and the labor-force participation rate is only 64 % and real wages have stagnated , leading to an all-time low of 44 % of national income .
labor income is the most important component of household income , and a major driver of consumer spending .
before the great recession , american workers and households were in trouble .
the annual growth rate fell by half for 30 years before the 2007 employment rate .
productivity growth is strong , but it goes far beyond wage growth , while workers ’ average real hourly compensation is declining , even as university graduates are not spared .
indeed , the period in 2000-2007 was only a rebound in the real income decline in median households .
moreover , job creation continues to play a polarizing role , with high incomes , technology , and management positions , as well as the number of food services in low wages , personal care , and protection .
on the contrary , white-collar and blue-collar jobs are shrinking , especially in manufacturing .
hard-pressed american households have had to cut their savings rates , borrow on home ownership , and keep their consumption at the cost of rising debt , leading to the housing and credit bubbles that burst in 2008 .
three factors have led to the toxic structural change in the us labor market :
· technological change is based on skill-biased technological change : the automation of traditional work and the increase in demand for skilled workers at least a college degree .
· global competition in competition and integration by trade and outsourcing has reduced jobs and reduced wages .
· declining competitiveness in the us , no longer the attractiveness of production and jobs .
but the decline in us competitiveness is the result of policy choices .
in particular , in terms of creating and maintaining high wages , the us has invested less in three areas : skills and training , infrastructure , and research and development .
the us government spends less than 10 % of its spending on these three fronts , and that share is declining .
today , the federal government can borrow at very low interest rates , while many projects have a high return on education , infrastructure , and research , with high returns and boosting the competitiveness of the us to attract high-wage jobs .
president barack obama has proposed numerous proposals to invest in us national competitiveness , but republicans in congress rejected these proposals , arguing that america ’ s immediate fiscal crisis is a fiscal crisis .
indeed , until 2030 , the federal deficit ’ s share of gdp will fall sharply in the years ahead , even without further deficit-reduction measures .
the us does face a chronic fiscal deficit , which is driven by rising health-care costs and aging populations .
but the current fiscal deficit is largely caused by low tax revenues , owing to low growth , high unemployment , and weak aggregate demand , and a new stimulus package is needed to take a new stimulus .
in any case , in order to ensure that the us economy will grow 2.5 % this year , the payroll tax and unemployment package proposed by obama should extend to the end of the year .
such measures can provide insurance to fragile recoveries , while no impact on long-term fiscal gaps .
so how can the us economy ’ s jobs deficit , investment deficit , and long-run fiscal deficits be addressed ?
policymakers should play a strong role in fiscal policy , eliminating jobs and investment deficits now , while proposing a multi-year plan to reduce long-run fiscal deficits gradually .
this long-term plan should increase spending on education , infrastructure , and research , while limiting further growth in health-care spending ( for example , the cost limits proposed by obamacare ) .
now , with a long-term deficit-reduction plan , it will prevent premature fiscal contraction by postponing the economy ’ s reach at full employment , which would prevent the economy from slipping into recession .
indeed , it would boost output and employment by enacting a package of investors ’ concerns about future deficits , boosting consumer and business confidence .
the painful choice of closing the long-run fiscal gap should be made , and it will be strong until the economy recovers .
but , in the coming years , the priorities for fiscal policy are jobs , investment , and growth .
america ’ s ungovernable budget
new york – any government is at the heart of the budget .
politicians can make endless promises , but if the budget is not kept behind , politics is simply empty .
this dilemma is already in the us .
in the just-released state of the state union , president barack obama painted a convincing picture of modern twenty-first-century government .
obama ’ s republican opponents complained that the proposal would make the government go bankrupt .
the truth is that both parties are incapable of recognizing the need for modernization without raising taxes .
obama wisely understood that today ’ s competitiveness in the world depends on modern labor and infrastructure .
this is no different for any country , but this is especially true for rich countries .
the us and europe must compete directly with brazil , china , india , and other emerging countries , and their wages are only one-quarter that of high-income countries ( or even less ) .
only by establishing competitiveness in advanced technologies , cutting-edge technologies , and modern infrastructure can the us and europe maintain their standard of living .
as a result , obama has called for the us to increase public investment in three areas : education , science and technology , and infrastructure ( including broadband internet , fast rail , and clean energy ) .
obama has good reason to emphasize these themes .
the us unemployment rate is currently hovering around 10 % , partly because emerging economies gain more jobs , while the number of jobs created by the us today is much higher than it was in the past .
unless the us increases its investment in education , science , technology , and infrastructure , such adverse trends will continue .
but when it comes to the budget deficit , obama ’ s statement starts with reality .
recognizing that recent fiscal policy has led to unsustainable public debt , obama has said that the budget balance is essential to achieving fiscal stability .
so he called for a five-year freeze on the us government ’ s so-called “ principled ” public spending .
the problem is that more than half of these spending is spent on education , technology , and infrastructure – and obama has just proposed more investment in these areas .
after telling americans how important they are to invest in modernization , he promised to freeze the spending in the next five years !
politicians often change different views in different speeches , but rarely so clearly contradictory propositions in the same speech .
this contradiction highlights the self-defeating nature of america ’ s budget policy for 25 years , and that is likely to continue .
on one hand , the us government must invest more in promoting economic competitiveness .
the us , on the other hand , is too low to support the necessary government investment .
two days after obama ’ s speech , the recent study published by the congressional budget office revealed that the budget deficit will reach $ 1.5 trillion this year , so large a deficit would be even more attractive than people ’ s imagination .
a large deficit of almost 10 % of gdp has led governments to debt , jeopardizing the us economy .
the congressional budget office study reports that the tax cuts agreed by obama and the republican opposition to the republican opposition have dramatically increased the fiscal deficit .
the tax cuts enacted by george w. bush were set to expire at the end of 2010 .
obama and republicans agreed to extend these tax cuts to at least two years ( the likelihood that they will continue to prolong two years later ) , thereby causing tax revenues to reduce tax revenue by $ 35 billion this year , and in 2012 .
tax cuts for the richest americans are also part of the solution .
the reality of american politics today is simple .
the leaders of both parties agreed on a policy of tax cuts , especially tax cuts for the rich .
both democrats and the white house would prefer tax cuts rather than spending on education , technology , and infrastructure .
the explanation is straightforward : the richest us households provide money for political campaigns .
so both parties have served to meet their wishes .
that is why the united states ’ 30 % of tax revenues are at the end of the country ’ s high income , while european countries account for less than 40 % of the country ’ s gdp .
one budget area can and should be cut : military spending .
still , even if america ’ s extreme military budget is slashed ( and bipartisan opposition to bipartisan opposition ) , new taxes are needed .
the economic and social consequences of a long tax cut are undeniable .
america ’ s international competitiveness is declining , while the poor are neglected – one-fifth of american children are trapped in poverty – and leaving a mountain of debt to young people .
despite obama ’ s lofty rhetoric , his fiscal-policy proposals are not hard to address these problems .
america ’ s unhinged “ pivot ”
new delhi – president barack obama ’ s first foreign trip to his second term highlights asia ’ s new centrality to the us economy and security .
but obama ’ s asian tour also speaks to america ’ s main problem with asia ’ s asian policy : is america ’ s “ pivot ” to asia , or is it a old 瓶装 in old policy ?
the us quickly exploited concerns triggered by china ’ s growing assertiveness in china , reinforcing its military ties with the old asian allies , and created a new security partner .
but america ’ s return to asia ’ s pivot to asia is constrained by the constraints of china ’ s strategic ambitions , with key challenges facing asia ’ s main security anchor .
one challenge is to stem the erosion of america ’ s relative power , which , in turn , requires comprehensive domestic renewal , including fiscal consolidation .
but the need to cut spending also feels that the us may not be able to shift its military center to the region ’ s shift toward the asia-pacific region , or even to weaken spending .
obama ’ s america has repeatedly backed down on china , which began with the bush administration ’ s fall into afghanistan and iraq .
this raises doubts about the ability of the us to support this strategy by promising a higher level of commitment in the asia-pacific region , where the us has already 32 troops in the region .
america ’ s plan to increase the number of marines in australia is largely symbolic .
indeed , after raising the expectations of the us ’ s robust response to china ’ s rise toward china , the obama administration has begun to reduce its “ pivot ” to the military , emphasizing america ’ s economic participation .
this change has given the region a sigh of relief to a country that must choose between the us and china .
but , for countries bearing the pressure on china ’ s insistence on territorial and maritime disputes , america ’ s emphasis on economic engagement spurs new doubts about its promise .
in fact , the rebalancing of the “ pivot ” in the us has corrected the policy of excessive emphasis on military content , making the us and china go to conflict .
secretary of state hillary clinton expressed a tough voice in hanoi , the asean regional forum in hanoi , expressing america ’ s hawkish stance toward china ; today , her tone has moderated many , urging trade and investment in asian countries to urge trade and investment .
obama has also highlighted the economic aspect of america ’ s “ pivot , ” portraying its trip to asia as an attempt to create more domestic manufacturing jobs by increasing its exports to “ the fastest and most dynamic regions of the world . ”
even his historic visit to burma – the first to visit the country ’ s us president – will be as much attention to trade concerns as pushing for a resource-rich country with a strategically important resource to escape from china .
the shift to trade and economic issues has also pushed washington to launch a trans-pacific partnership , which aims to create a free-trade bloc that does not include china .
moreover , the us is emphasizing the importance of the east asia summit and asean ’ s importance , which the summit ’ s summit with obama will overlap .
the us approach is also affected by other considerations : the question of disputes over china and its neighbors , which , unless america ’ s immediate interests are affected , threaten some of the world ’ s most busy maritime routes .
the concern for its own countries is why the us is neutral in the country ’ s territorial disputes between india and india – including china ’ s sudden 提出 of arunachal pradesh – in the region .
similarly , the us is pressing for china and japan to resolve the dispute over the japanese-controlled senkaku islands .
america ’ s main purpose is to prevent the standoff from developing to the extent that it will have to stand up to japan – with its own interests .
us secretary of defense leon panetta met with chinese leader xi jinping in september , when he listened to a “ startling demand ” – and , indeed , the chinese anti-japanese demonstrations , which were forged outside of the sino-japanese dispute , in september .
the correction in us policy has actually extended to terminology .
american diplomats are no longer using the term “ center of gravity , ” because they are implied by military means and instead use the “ rebalancing . ”
whatever one calls it , the only objective of the new policy approach is china , the us in strengthening its allies and allies in china ’ s neighborhood , including india , japan , the philippines , vietnam , indonesia , and south korea .
but the obama administration continues to deny that china is its strategic core , in fact the obama administration ’ s reluctance to say , or that it is unwilling to do anything that could trigger chinese antipathy .
the asia-pacific region will take a more important place in obama ’ s second term , especially in the us , where the withdrawal of troops will end in 2014 .
the us and the rest of asia must not be pushed forward by china , and they must seek to abide by china ’ s rules .
america ’ s war-torn economy
new york – there is talk of two issues in the coming american election : the iraq war and the economy .
when the war in iraq is better than expected , and the economy is worse than it was , the economic problem masks war .
in some sense , there is only one issue : the war in iraq has exacerbated the economic problem in the us .
when the world ’ s largest economies are sick and sick , the world suffers .
people previously thought that war was good for the economy .
after all , many believe that world war ii helped the world economy escape the great depression .
but , at least since the era of john maynard keynes , we know how to stimulate the economy more effectively , and that it has improved long-term production and improved living standards .
this war is particularly bad for the economy .
first , it has caused oil prices to rise .
when the us went into war , oil prices were $ 25 in less than $ 25 , and futures markets are expected to remain at that level within a decade .
futures traders know the growth of china and other emerging markets , but they are expected to be in the middle east ’ s oil supply and demand growth .
this war changed the equation .
high oil prices mean that americans ( and europeans and japanese ) pay hundreds of millions of dollars in middle east oil dictators and other exporters elsewhere , rather than at home .
moreover , the money spent on the iraq war is not as encouraging as it spends at home , hospitals , or schools , and it does not favor long-term economic growth .
economists talk about how to stimulate the economy by spending money .
it is hard to imagine how to put money on a nepalese contractor working in iraq .
as the dollar dried up , the us economy is supposed to be worse than it is now .
but , just as the bush administration tried to mask the real costs of war through incomplete and misleading accounting , the fed has provided massive amounts of liquidity and obscured lax financial regulation .
given that so many of the money into the economy are in the economy , so , too , is it so bad that a loan advertisement for a large us bank is a “ qualified life . ”
the bush administration hoped that the day after the reckoning began in november 2008 . instead , it became apparent in august 2007 .
the bush administration now responds to a combination of comprehensive economic stimulus , which is too little too late and less structured .
in recent years , it is not enough to see how this approach is not enough .
the end of the game based on housing prices is over .
with housing prices falling ( and will continue to fall ) and banks ’ fiscal position is uncertain about their finances , lenders are reluctant to borrow to lend to households .
so , while the additional liquidity injected into the financial system may have prevented the collapse , it does not stimulate much consumption or investment .
on the contrary , most would be tempted to go abroad .
china , for example , fears that the fed ’ s stimulus will increase its domestic inflation .
the us has not only spent huge monthly spending on this war a month , but also increased , but most of the bill was paid for , such as compensation and health costs for 40 % of the disabled veterans who returned from the battlefield .
moreover , it is different from any other war in the us that is funded by the us ’ s history .
in general , the war countries will demand risk when they are demanding young men and women who suffer their lives .
tax increases .
there are also discussions about how much to pass on to future generations , where no one discussed them .
there was a deficit in the us .
but it is surprising that bush has demanded a reckless tax cut for the rich and made his way .
this means that the former effectively borrowed in war .
for the first time since the war of independence two centuries ago , the us has lent to foreigners to war , because american households did not save .
it is hard to believe .
the country ’ s debt has increased by 50 % over the last eight years , while a $ 1 trillion increase in the cost of fighting it is likely to increase by more than a decade .
who would have believed that a government would do so much damage so quickly ?
the us , and the world , will be paying a price correction for decades to come .
obama ’ s year of iran
princeton – as us president barack obama ’ s second term begins , he will have to devote considerable attention to fixing domestic fiscal policy .
but the diplomatic issue is also striking , though the ongoing conflict in syria is threatening to spread to africa ’ s sahel region , where the consensus is that 2013 will be a “ year of decision ” for iran .
obama ’ s first term promised to engage with the islamic republic in his first inaugural address ; it was documented in his first inaugural address in 2009 , “ if you are willing to unclench your 双拳 , we will have to help . ”
he reiterated his promise in his inaugural address to reiterate this promise : “ we will show the courage to settle disputes with other countries – not because we are naïve to ignore the risks that we face , but because it is more durable to address and fear . ”
as american scholar and activist hussein 比什 recently put it , obama appointed his cabinet to make him the most room to deal with iran through negotiations .
in particular , the appointment of veterans as secretary of state and secretary of defense would provide a valuable domestic political cover for an agreement , because the agreement would inevitably eliminate sanctions on iran and almost certainly recognize the right of iran to extract the right of low-enriched uranium .
this will not only signal to iran ’ s rulers that america ’ s attitude toward the deal is serious , but that it would be the best deal that they can expect .
the obama administration has formed special economic sanctions to impose economic sanctions on the country , and has had a significant impact on domestic commodity prices and supply conditions , and even powerful institutions such as the revolutionary guard are operating in business .
but the coalition is unlikely to remain in power forever , with the pain of sanctions often in two ways , affecting buyers as well as sellers .
countries like japan and japan , for example , have barely narrowed their imports from iran , and countries like russia and russia rarely vote for sanctions in the first place .
moreover , obama ’ s threats to “ all options have already been on the table ” without losing credibility in iran and other middle eastern countries .
the brookings institution ’ s foreign-policy expert , susan 马 , points out that the middle east and other regional countries have become frustrated with the us in syria .
if the us is again trying to engage in formal talks ( a credible offer to offer credible advice ) , it is not doing so again , and it will be truly exposed to the actual faces of its paper .
when it comes to this , the sanctions coalition will most likely disintegrate from the confidence of the us leadership .
the us has maneuvered itself into a corner .
like the cold war ’ s policy of the soviet bloc , “ iran ’ s military threat to israel or any us ally in the middle east will be viewed as a direct provocation to the us , and would lead to an appropriate us response . ”
i really understand the wisdom of brzezinski ’ s approach .
but obama led the us and its allies on this path .
moreover , the key question is that brzezinski has forgotten that obama has forgotten not only that obama is determined not only to focus on israel ’ s security or the stability of the entire middle east .
obama has repeatedly pledged to achieve “ global zero denuclearization ” – that is , eliminating all nuclear weapons worldwide .
he is convinced ( former secretary of state henry kissinger and george shultz , former defense minister william perry and former senator sam nunn ) that unless the world found a way to denuclearize , the international system would be more dangerous than it would be .
persuading great powers to destroy nuclear weapons might seem like a political non-starter to the us congress , but it has already made it clear that obama is willing to try .
regardless of how discreetly it is to curb policy , obama ’ s promise to achieve global denuclearization means that he will not allow another country to acquire nuclear weapons , as he did with his predecessors , israel , north korea , and pakistan .
so the stakes are high on both sides of the us and iran .
other countries would be wise not to underestimate obama ’ s resolve ; governments that have relations with iran should emphasize the timing of the deal .
governments such as turkey and brazil ( and perhaps india and egypt ) can play a useful role by designing iran ’ s design to meet the international community ’ s demands , as well as for long-term fuel enrichment .
america ’ s allies , in turn , must be aligned with the us when they develop their transactions and military strikes .
the art of governance is not to choose between war and diplomacy , but to understand how these solutions interact .
in the case of syria , western countries have repeatedly called for diplomacy to resolve the possibility of a diplomatic solution , and doing so clearly would not have been possible .
the us will not be wrong in iran .
the hypocritical america
in the wake of last july ’ s celebrations in the united states , president george w. bush emphasized that the patriots of the “ american 革命战争 ” were convinced that the patriots of the united states were equal and inalienable .
he claimed that , because these ideals , the us “ remains a beacon of hope for all of the people who dream of freedom , and setting a model for what the world can achieve . ”
at the same time , however , his government held roughly 400 prisoners in the us naval base at guantánamo bay in cuba .
they have been imprisoned for more than five years , and none has been tried .
last month , a highly reliable source of news confirmed that the guantánamo prisoners were killed not just by indefinite detention .
according to the fbi ’ s document , a fbi agent “ good for several times ” saw the imprisoned “ 姿势 ” of detainees , without a chair , a food 或水 .
in this context , “ most people are 大小便 . ”
they can make 18 or 24 hours , or longer .
one of the agents reported , “ air conditioning is so low that the air conditioning is so low that the 赤脚 detainee is 发抖 . ”
another time , the entrance was no longer 通风 , up to 100 degrees , and the detainee was almost invisible to the floor , and there is almost a pile of 头发 – “ he ’ s going to get out of the crossfire . ”
another fbi agent was told by a civilian 承包人 that “ he must go to heaven . ”
so he was brought to an interrogation room to see a 头发 man with a 满脸 man who is “ covered with much more than a dozen head . ”
when the agent asked how the tape was removed , it was not answered .
and the fbi report ’ s sex comment on these events suggests that “ the department of defense ’ s current policy is not excessive . ”
several of the detainees told the fbi agents that they do not have a connection to terrorism , knowing why they were abducted and brought to guantánamo .
many prisoners are not captured in the war in afghanistan .
others were picked up in bosnia , indonesia , thailand , mauritania , and pakistan .
the bush administration says that these detainees were “ combatants combatants ” in the global war on terror – a war that could last for decades , and probably for decades .
guantánamo ’ s commander , the commander of the navy ’ s general Harry , jr. , recently defended the behavior of a brutal prisoner ’ s behavior in defense of prisoners : “ all are terrorists ; all are combatants . ”
but the cia has made mistakes .
for example , Murat Kurnaz , a turkish turks who was born in germany , was imprisoned for four years after being released for four years .
the case of Masri Masri , another lebanese citizen , seems to be equally mistaken .
after the cia caught in macedonia , he was brought to afghanistan and has been released after five months of trial .
a german court has already issued arrest warrants for those involved in the abduction .
if there is any fundamental human rights , the right to be held without trial is surely one of them .
the human rights act of the us constitution has repeatedly emphasized this right , particularly in the sixth amendment , in which the “ defendants enjoy the right to get a fair and fair trial in a quick and open manner , ” and “ the right to be told about the content and substance of the prosecution . ”
none of the guantánamo inmates has been given such rights .
as a result , they have never been vindicated by the standards established by the us constitution .
but the sixth amendment does not apply to guantánamo prisoners , because they are not american citizens , and are in the presence of technically not in us territory , even though the facility is fully controlled by the us government .
regardless of how the us courts explained , the world ’ s population , from around the world , will take several years in prison without being subjected to a crime , and it treated them with a brutal and degrading approach to international law .
in any case , this is wrong .
tom 佩恩 , the great american revolutionaries and the human rights of human rights , wrote that “ people who want to secure their freedom must not even defend his enemies ; if they violate the obligation , they created a precedent that would expose him to the same consequences . ”
if only the us had been advised to follow this counsel , it could actually become a beacon of hope and a shining example .
but , as long as it does not have justice , it continues to detain and abuse prisoners , and the ideals that it advocates will continue to listen to the rest of the world .
输者 the us
berkeley – the washington post ’ s 凯瑟琳 · recently held a meeting between president donald trump ’ s white house and his labor unions in february 2017 , and he thanked the assembled “ in america , ” and predicted that the iconic american corporate company will continue to expand in his tenure .
“ i know you ’ re doing your business now , ” he said , “ the country has always lacked a spirit of spirit in the last few months , and all of it is now . ”
a year later , the difference was different .
harley-davidson recently announced that it would transfer some of its operations to other jurisdictions , lest it be affected by retaliatory measures against trump ’ s tariffs on steel and aluminum .
trump tweeted , “ i ’ m amazed that harley-davidson was the first to make a white flag . ”
and , eventually , they do not have to pay the product for the eu without paying tariffs .
then , in the tweet , trump falsely wrote that , “ early this year , harley-davidson said that it would move most of the factory in kansas city to thailand , ” and used “ 关税 as a pretext . ”
in any case , trump ’ s argument is nonsensical .
if business is based on his own expectations of the impending trade war , a trade war is not just an excuse , but real .
in the other tweet , trump threatened and warned that , “ harley-davidson must recognize that they must pay heavy taxes , or sell motorcycles to the us ! ”
but this is still absurd : harley-davidson would transfer some of its production to the eu ’ s customs restrictions , aimed at selling tariff-free motorcycles to europeans .
in the final tweet , trump began to call the shots : “ harley-davidson should never be produced in another country – never ! ”
he then vowed to destroy the firm – and thus destroy people ’ s work : “ if they move , if they move , that is the beginning of the end – and the collapse ! ”
the aura will disappear , and the taxation will be unprecedented ! ”
needless to say , none of this is normal .
trump ’ s statements are clearly contempt for the rule of law .
none of this is a level called trade policy , let alone governance .
this brings us back to the days of henry viii ’ s rule – an impulsive monarch who was surrounded by a plutocratic 君主 , 马屁精 , and 谄媚者 , and all attempts to preserve the benefits of the country ’ s ship .
trump certainly can not make a sense of his job .
the us house of representatives and the senate have long impeached him and removed him from office – at least in violation of the us constitution ’ s emoluments clause .
beyond that , vice president mike pence should have long ago invoked the 25th amendment , which has deposed a president who is “ unable to fulfill its power and responsibilities . ”
nevertheless , neither speaker of the house paul ryan nor senate majority leader mitch mcconnell and pence are afraid to oppose trump ’ s assault on american democracy .
republicans fear that if trump , with its current base of nearly 90 % of voters , will be frustrated by the congressional midterm election polls , they will lose in november ’ s midterm congressional elections .
the idea that elections will solve all problems is good .
but , given the republicans ’ unjust 划分 congress , the democrats need at least 6 % of the vote to reassert the house .
democrats also must overcome redistricting in the senate .
at the moment , 49 senators on the democratic side of the democratic party represent a 1.81 million people , compared to 51 million senators in the republican camp .
moreover , voter turnout in the us midterm elections has always been extremely low , with the prospect of a democratic candidate .
trump and congressional republicans have been in charge of a relatively strong economy , though they are happy to claim that they were , but they have inherited former president barack obama .
finally , fear of fear can not be ignored .
countless americans frequently become victims of social and cable media campaigns , which will inspire the worst instincts .
not to be sure , the election cycle would be a good one , and older white voters will be bombed on immigration , color , the muslim threat , and the bombing of trump ’ s voters ( if they were not duped by the purchase of fake diabetes treatments and high gold funds ) .
whatever happens this november , the situation is already clear , and the us ’ s century ended on november 8 , 2016 .
from that day , the us is no longer the world ’ s superpower – a flawed but ultimately well-meaning guarantor of peace , prosperity , and human rights worldwide .
america ’ s era of kindlebergian hegemony is over .
the credibility that the trump globalists lost in russia and the us electoral college is never restored .
cambridge – the united states ’ trade deficit is about $ 450 billion , or 2.5 % of gdp .
this means that us imports and services are more than $ 450 billion to the rest of the world .
how can americans ’ standard of living change if the us ran a huge deficit year after year ?
it is easy to blame large trade deficits against foreign governments that block us government sales in their own markets , hurting us firms and reducing their employees ’ standard of living .
it is also easy to blame the large trade deficit on foreign governments that subsidize exports to the us , which hurt us firms and employees , who lose access to foreign suppliers ( though in the us , as a whole ) .
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the reason for the us trade deficit .
the real reason is that americans spend more than they earn .
the total trade deficit is the result of savings and investment decisions by households and businesses in the us .
foreign governments ’ policies can only influence how the deficit is distributed between us trading partners .
why america ’ s saving and investment decisions bring about a total trade deficit is simple : if a country saves more of its total output , rather than investing in equipment and structures , there is excess production to the rest of the world .
in other words , saving minus investment equals exports minus imports – a basic accounting identity that applies to each country in every year .
thus , reducing the us trade deficit requires americans to save more and invest less .
these policies would not change the overall trade balance by making markets open to us products , or allowing the us market to shut down foreign products .
the us has maintained its trade deficit for more than three decades , because foreigners are willing to lend their money to america ’ s net purchases of finance , in ways that buy us bonds and stocks or to invest in us real estate and other firms .
this is not to say that it will remain so in the coming decades ; but there is no reason to believe that it will end .
while foreign entities that lend to us borrowers some day will demand money , others will replace them as the next lenders .
but if foreigners as a whole reduced their demand for us financial assets , the price of these assets falls , causing interest rates to rise .
the rise in us interest rates would discourage domestic investment and increase domestic saving , causing the trade deficit to fall .
a declining trade deficit would help us exporters and businesses that now compete with imports .
but the decline in the trade deficit will also reduce americans ’ output of domestic consumption , or to invest in future consumption .
and that is only part of the story .
beyond reducing the remaining volume of goods and services available to us households and businesses , the trade deficit would also demand that us goods and services become more attractive to foreign buyers , while foreign goods and services are no longer attractive to us buyers .
this means that the us export price declines , import prices rise – and , through the dollar ’ s fall , the dollar is falling .
even if the size of the national output is the same , us output will decline at home , because the us must export more output to gain the same value as imports .
trade experts estimate that the us trade deficit has lowered its gdp by 10 % or 10 % of import prices by 10 % .
if these two changes are simultaneously simultaneously , they will reduce the current trade deficit by about 2 % of us gdp , making us trade a fundamental balance .
but , because us exports and imports account for 15 % of gdp and 12 % of gdp , lower export prices would reduce real incomes by about 1.5 % ( adjusted for inflation ) , while import prices would reduce real incomes by 1.2 % .
thus , eliminating the trade deficit will require a shift of 2.5 % of us real production to the rest of the world , and a change in import prices that would make real gdp more real 2.7 % .
in short , with national output unchanged , america ’ s real income will fall by about 5 % .
if trade deficits fall because of increased consumption , lower investment , and lower investment , the level of investment will cause growth to fall , further reducing long-term real income levels .
but if the trade deficit narrowed because households increase their savings and government deficits , there is a risk that investment will rise – and thus increase long-term incomes .
as a result , the americans ’ saving rate is the key to the trade balance , and it is crucial to its long-term real income level .
blaming other countries does not change this fact .
the state of america
new york – the united states ’ presidential election is not nearly half the corner , and it is impossible to know who will be nominated by the two major parties , let alone who will be the 45th occupant of the white house .
but it is not too soon to assess the mood of a country with 3.2 million inhabitants , and the meaning of the eventual winner of the world ’ s seemingly endless political soap opera .
today , mainstream sentiment in the united states is a source of anxiety and even outright anger .
the washington post recently published a series of articles , revealing popular anger against wall street , muslims , trade deals , washington , police shootings , president barack obama , immigration , and other goals .
today , the worst description of a person is “ professional politicians . ”
the beneficiaries of this thinking are anti-establishment candidates who stand in opposition to free trade and immigration reform , demanding a radical overhaul of current tax and spending policies .
the details of the specific details they advocate may be very different , but their platforms have committed to a radical departure from the status quo .
the basis behind this sentiment is not obvious , because the us economy is better than it was in the immediate aftermath of the 2007-2008 economic crisis .
over nine million jobs have been created during this period , with low interest rates ( making housing and car loans cheap ) , while the decline in gasoline prices amounts to $ 700 per household for households .
moreover , the stock market has risen by 200 % since its low seven years ago , with no health insurance now covered by insurance .
but this economic good news has been offset by anemic household income growth , which has grown in real ( inflation-adjusted ) terms for 15 years .
the percentage of americans who have full-time jobs still did not meet its level seven years ago .
more people fear that they will lose jobs , new technologies , or outsourcing .
many americans live longer , but they are anxious , because they have failed to put their money in order to ensure that they are kept out of old age .
for the reforms that obama has pursued , some would have to pay for the health insurance that they had previously saved .
there is also the issue of inequality .
this leads to real anger , but the problem is not that inequality , though bad , is not new , but the decline of opportunity .
the american dream is giving way to class consciousness – a profound change in the country ’ s ability to create an ideal effort to improve the lives of all .
but the reasons for anxiety and anger are not limited to economic reality and concerns .
there is also a sense of insecurity , whether because of crime or fear of terrorism .
in many communities , there is concern where culture and society are concerned .
modern media tend to make things worse .
our time is a time of “ 窄播 , ” not “ radio . ”
people are increasingly willing to see cable channels and websites strengthening their views and ideology .
national sentiment transcends the campaign , bringing real challenges to the new president and congress .
the divisions between democrats and republicans will create compromises and coalitions , and it is essential to govern it .
concerns about retirement and health-care affordability will significantly increase the difficulty of reforming equity , even if the expansion of these benefits would increase the national debt to record levels .
free trade is blamed for job losses , and is losing support , even if it is a new job and more consumer choice – and strengthens america ’ s strategic position around the world .
immigration has been part of the us , and it is a source of good talent , and it is now being subject to a lot of controversy .
american sentiment may also strengthen officials ’ domestic concerns .
the cost of intervention in iraq and afghanistan is far higher than the incomes of the income , and many americans have been disappointed by subsequent diplomatic engagement , with doubts about what the us can achieve abroad .
they are frustrated with their allies ’ failure to share a fair share of the fair share of their allies , and the us government is increasingly convinced that the us government should focus less on the world .
obviously , others in other countries are pleased ; but , overall , it is bad news for much of the world .
the united states , which is distracted by the division of attention , is less likely to be willing and able to lead the stability or response to stability in the middle east , europe , or asia .
without us leadership , these challenges could not be solved , or , worse , the problem .
america wakes up on climate change
after years of debate and the bush administration ’ s opposition to any action , the us is finally waking up to the realities of global climate change .
but this process is not the result of the president , but from the private sector .
the leaders of major us corporations believe that man-made global climate change is an indisputable reality , and it must be controlled , and the business community must play a constructive role in this process .
as a result , even the bush administration and some of the others who have proved the opposite of science are moving in the opposite direction , us corporate leaders are seeking concrete solutions .
the basic situation has been clear for years .
global use of fossil fuels is leading to a sharp rise in the amount of co2 in the atmosphere , which is causing warming to earth .
rainfall patterns are changing .
deserts and dry regions become drier .
extreme weather events like hurricanes and typhoons are also increasing .
flooding in europe may become even more severe , and the process could already be taken .
sea levels are rising , and if the ice sheets of green and antarctica are to be destabilized by global warming , this trend will rise further .
in short , there is a growing body of scientific evidence that the planet is already at risk . many bad effects are already visible , and that they are just the tip of the iceberg .
the right approach is also to be understood .
we must shift to a sustainable energy system that does not make a system of carbon in the atmosphere dramatically increased .
this will require us to shift to renewable energy sources , such as solar and nuclear energy , and to use new technologies that would enable the emissions of power plants to be used and deployed safely underground .
society must pay the necessary costs for the adoption of these new energy technologies , but we benefit from it .
the us is the world ’ s main country in the use of co2 emissions , but , in major countries , it is the least able to respond to the global climate challenge .
fortunately , the us has taken concrete action , owing to the consequences of other countries ’ leadership and the sense of awareness by major us companies .
first , the rest of the world ratified the kyoto protocol to control co2 emissions .
at the beginning of this year , europe introduced a new cap-and-trade system , using market incentives to control carbon emissions .
american companies operating in europe are part of the system because they are part of the system , and , even in the absence of their own government , us companies are integrated into a system of climate control .
moreover , america ’ s major investors , such as pension fund managers , are recognizing that companies that can not control emissions could suffer economic losses in the future .
they understood that the us would sooner or later join the process of global control .
at that point , electric power utilities using antiquated technologies face severe financial losses when they emit large amounts of greenhouse gases .
so investors are making today ’ s companies reporting carbon emissions to assess future liabilities .
likewise , many companies know that pretending that climate problems do not exist is bad for shareholders , because the truth prevails .
they know that today ’ s investments in clean ( energy ) technologies increase companies ’ long-term competitiveness .
as a result , many companies have taken steps to limit their emissions to avoid unnecessary economic responsibility and keep investors afloat .
when the world ’ s most important and innovative spirit , and one of the most respected companies , announced that it would be a “ green ” company by adopting new claims and commitments that benefit the environment , it is the one of the most important .
many us companies will follow the lead , guided by leadership that calls themselves “ ecological imagination ” ( combining ecology with imagination ) .
it is too early to say that the us has been able to step in to combat climate change .
the bush administration continues to delay and avoid effective 科学论证 .
the comparison , however , is a turning point .
as in other countries , reality is approaching the us .
as americans and companies continue to suffer from the adverse effects of climate change – heat waves , droughts , hurricanes , and floods – americans , including a growing number of business leaders , will urge american political leadership to take concrete steps .
the solution will not be easy , and it must continue for decades around the world .
but we must start acting now .
as in europe ’ s new trading trading system , global producers and consumers alike need to confront market incentives to slow ( and eventually stop ) the technologies and consumption patterns of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere .
when we are responsible for global climate change , we should be paying for a certain “ market price , ” which we can really take on economically motivated energy systems and new public investments – such as big 运量 public-transport systems – and thus preventing future climate disasters .
the right weights for mortgage risk
abu dhabi – ever since the start of a 狩猎 tribe began to build a habitat , homeownership became a mark of great social and economic stature .
today , the us has created a huge system of financial institutions to facilitate housing ownership , and economists , bankers , politicians , and , of course , homeowners themselves are keen to house prices .
but , as we have recently seen , unless mortgage risk is properly calculated , the dream of a house can easily become a bad economic nightmare .
mortgage debt has become the largest household debt in the developed world .
in the decade preceding the financial crisis , the us mortgage debt increased by almost three times , while the real economy grew by just one-third .
at the peak of 2007 , us mortgage debt amounted to $ 10.6 trillion – more than twice as much as gdp in china and india combined .
the collapse in real-estate prices was also the main cause of emerging-market crises , as occurred in asia in 1997-98 .
research shows that the output losses associated with the bust in housing bubbles are twice as high as they were in real estate prices .
moreover , the housing bubble burst by almost three years .
given that mortgage debt was subject to a collapsing housing price , a huge social and economic cost would be enormous , and that regulators should be engaged closely and closely .
unfortunately , not .
despite the 2008 global banking supervision committee ’ s main benchmark , the basel committee on banking supervision proposed implementing reforms aimed at strengthening the financial system , but the mortgage regulatory changes were little .
the key to mortgage regulation is the concept of “ risk weight , ” which increases with the probability of a borrower ’ s default .
for example , a loan to aaa-rated microsoft , a 0 % risk weight , means that it can be considered risk-free .
loans to india ’ s government , risk weight at 50 % , and riskier loans in argentina , will be 150 % .
as for mortgage lending , the standard risk weight is 35 % ( 50 % a decade ago ) .
but banks can use internal mathematical models to calculate their own risk weights .
this is akin to his own 考卷 rating ; it is not surprising that banks ’ risk rating tends to fall on the security side .
consider , for example , a $ 200,000 loan to buy a $ 235,000 house .
if the banks give the loans a 10 % risk weight , the risk is worth $ 20,000 .
if the bank ’ s share of the bank ’ s total capital shares is 10 % , the banks need only $ 2,000 worth of capital .
the loss of the bank ’ s own money would require a 16 % drop in house prices ( from $ 235,000 to below $ 198,000 ) .
by the s & poor national home price index , in june 2009 , the us declined by more than 30 % in march 2009 , while european countries , including spain , ireland , and the united kingdom , have experienced similar or larger declines .
the problem is that banks that have largely failed to “ contain them ” continue to make large amounts of mortgage lending .
the imf estimates that the average mortgage risk weight in europe and asia is 14 % and 15 % , respectively , with some of the risk weights that some banks use at less than 6 % .
recently , some regulators have begun to question the risk weights on banks ’ own profits .
in 2012 , the british authorities demanded a temporary risk weights for a 15 % of the bank ’ s mortgage portfolios , but the guidelines fell in july .
the swedish regulator suggested that mortgage lenders would raise the risk weight from 15 % to 25 % .
while these measures are welcome , they remain too small ; more important , they lack flexibility .
a better approach would be to implement pro-cyclical , pro-cyclical floors , forcing banks to hold more capital during housing booms .
moreover , a one-size-fits-all fixed floor could drive banks to lend more to riskier , more rewarding loans ; and a dynamic system allows the lower floor of mortgage lending to lower the minimum , while the lower bound on risky loans would require higher floors .
moreover , while risk weight is a huge macro-prudential lever , it must be used with other tools for regulators .
these include mortgage eligibility criteria ( such as 房屋 value ratios and 收入 ratios ) and dynamic ( in the case of a housing boom that raised banks ’ mandatory lending losses ) .
the impact of adjusting risk weight relative to the housing market is important , because excessive and 重复 intervention could lead to a vicious cycle .
modern banking regulation depends on the risk weight that is most apparent in the mortgage market .
this column represents the author ’ s personal , not representative of the national bank of abu dhabi .
hardening brazil ’ s soft power
brasilia – perhaps for brazilians , the country ’ s eternal peace is a tricky question .
after all , after negotiations to resolve the border dispute , brazil has nearly 150 years of conflict with ten neighbors .
the last war against the south atlantic in 1942 was the last war against the south atlantic .
brazil has signed the comprehensive nuclear safeguards agreement with argentina and the international atomic energy agency , pledging to abandon its nuclear weapons .
brazil is doing its part through mercosur and the alliance of south american countries ( unasur ) to contribute to the region ’ s political , economic , social , and cultural integration .
but can the world ’ s major emerging countries simply rely on soft power alone ?
to be sure , brazil ’ s peaceful foreign policy is doing well .
brazil has used its own status to advance peace cooperation in south america and beyond .
it is this constructive attitude that combines national pride with democracy , social justice , economic development , and environmental protection .
the key source of brazil ’ s soft power is its unique approach to promoting the ideal , exemplified in the support of brazil , which has more than the fao and the world trade organization .
but no country can defend its interests alone .
in fact , policymakers must not lose sight of the hard power of a new challenge in an old , 威胁 world .
the military has secured peace by curbing threats to national sovereignty , in brazil , for example , to prop up its constructive role in global stability .
that role is more necessary than ever .
over the past two decades , unilateral action undermined the un security council ’ s authority in international war and peace , leading to instability and uncertainty .
there has been little progress in nuclear disarmament on nuclear disarmament .
brazil ’ s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity makes it even more important in the security environment for the fight against natural resources .
to meet the challenges of complex realities , brazil ’ s peaceful foreign policy must be underpinned by a strong defense policy .
brazil ’ s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , made clear that the modernization of the armed forces is inherently correlated with the country ’ s development .
the report thus emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry .
brazil is pursuing a more conventional deterrent capability in this strategy , including by building a 核潜艇 submarine to make the naval plan commensurate with brazil ’ s responsibility in the south atlantic .
brazil cooperated closely with its neighbors through bilateral and south america ’ s defense council , which aims to promote trust , transparency , joint regional defense industries , and most important – building a common defense identity .
south america ’ s defense college , a south american defense college , is a potential mechanism for advancing these goals .
the war is increasingly unthinkable in south america – the political scientist karl deutsch called the “ safe community . ”
i am convinced that the defense minister ’ s visit to hong kong was the most effective deterrent in the region .
meanwhile , brazil is seeking to strengthen bilateral defense cooperation with its african partners .
brazil is working closely with its neighbors on both sides of the atlantic to protect the construction of nuclear peace in the south atlantic , a construction of nuclear cooperation and nuclear weapons .
for example , brazil conducts regular trilateral naval exercises with south africa and india .
more broadly , we are exploring ways to cooperate in defense technologies .
brazil hopes to be able to contribute to a balance of power stemming from the importance of a hegemonic international order that focuses on the importance of mutually beneficial partnerships with developed countries .
even in brazil ’ s hardening of soft power , it remains committed to a dialogue to prevent conflict prevention and negotiation .
in countries such as haiti and lebanon , peacekeepers highlight brazil ’ s efforts to maintain world peace and security .
brazil also convinced the global order of genuine stability in the twenty-first century will depend on the ability to build a legitimate and effective un security council that is responsive to the emerging multipolar world .
the growth dividend grows
hong kong – for more than three decades , china has grown rapidly over 10 % of gdp growth .
yet , behind this remarkable economic growth , the resulting economic , social , environmental costs , and challenges , as former prime minister wen jiabao accurately described – “ unstable , unbalanced , uncoordinated , and unsustainable ” – has followed .
now , china must make choices : the old economic-growth model driven by export investment , or a sustainable economic growth order .
cheap credit and wrong incentives ( such as promoting officials such as gdp growth ) triggered massive repeat investments , resulting in excess capacity in manufacturing and infrastructure .
this model is not only inefficient , but also government resources to impede inefficient investments in chinese society .
given this , china ’ s leaders have decided to stop their gdp growth as the primary criterion for evaluating officials ’ performance .
in fact , the 12th five-year plan , which will end in 2015 , aims to transform china ’ s economy into a sustainable new growth model based on quality and innovation , and accepts the possibility of falling gdp during the transition period .
most discussions about growth patterns are based on the theory of the nobel laureate economist robert solow .
according to the solow , gdp growth is determined by inputs like land , labor , capital , and total factor productivity . factor productivity ( tfp ) refers to the changes in productivity , not because of changes in technology , but because of changes in output .
since 1978 , china has achieved three consecutive periods of rapid productivity growth ( 5-7 years per year ) by advancing major reforms .
the first phase was the introduction of the rural family responsibility system in the early 1980 ’ s , which boosted agricultural productivity and sent large segments of the unskilled workers into a more productive urban and industrial sector , and total factor productivity grew by 3-4 % .
the second rapid growth occurred after deng xiaoping , after deng xiaoping , stressed that china ’ s economy needs to open up to foreign direct investment , and establish a special economic zones that would enable a shift to a market-based state .
this time , partly because of the “ catch up ” of china ’ s adoption of advanced technologies and successful expertise , tfp soared to 5-6 % .
finally , after major reforms of state-owned enterprises and tax systems , china joined the world trade organization in 2001 , prompting china to integrate fully into global supply chains , with tfp growth reaching 4 % , and continued to be until 2007 .
since then , however , tfp growth has fallen by almost half .
indeed , china ’ s economic growth has slowed significantly since the global economic crisis began five years ago .
by 2012 , human capital contributed to china ’ s gdp to almost zero , while fixed capital accumulation accounted for about 60 % of total growth .
massive debt financing will increase china ’ s credit ratio to nearly 200 % of gdp , highlighting the fragility of the financial system – a point that the recent bank interest rate has soared .
to achieve a balanced , sustainable gdp growth , china ’ s leaders must implement a comprehensive set of structural reforms aimed at boosting total factor productivity .
reforms should be focused on promoting the transition to the chinese economy ’ s growth model , in order to expand the traditional supply-side growth model of infrastructure construction , which is clearly not adapted to the current economic situation .
in fact , slowing gdp growth may be precisely precisely because the current investment in manufacturing and infrastructure , dominated by local governments and state-owned enterprises , is not in domestic demand .
china , too , faces short-term excess capacity .
governments must emphasize their regulatory and enforcement functions , including by developing and overseeing standards , establishing effective property-rights infrastructure , and managing macroeconomic conditions , rather than direct investment .
at the same time , governments should raise the quality of education , health care , and social security , and minimize corruption and administrative abuses .
in short , china must shift its focus from achieving its target of gdp growth to creating a environment conducive to innovation and competition , thereby allowing markets to set prices and increase resource efficiency .
the government thus turned into an intermediary to facilitate the development of a sustainable economic order in exchange for more innovation opportunities .
needless to say , soes have played an important role in china ’ s past growth model , providing the essential infrastructure and services needed for global manufacturing supply chains .
but cheap credit by state-owned banks has encouraged soes to accumulate excess capacity , leading to systemic risks .
to address china ’ s excess-capacity problem , it will have to leave inefficient firms , whether soes or private firms .
china ’ s leaders need to implement major structural reforms to build a market-based economic growth model that enables china to avoid the “ middle-income trap ” – a trap that has led many developing economies to not access to advanced-country status .
china needs reform dividends , including market dynamism and overall economic stability , to offset the reform costs of slowing gdp growth .
tracking big pharma ’ s progress on amr
london – at the world economic forum ’ s annual meeting in davos this week , the drug acquisition foundation ( AMF ) is developing a set of amr to “ track how drug companies respond to increased drug resistance . ”
setting the basis for this standard is based on the proposal recommended by the british government , which i chaired in may 2016 , to assess the final review of amr , and the important outcomes made by the 研究所 institute , Drive , global antimicrobial drugs , and the world health organization .
for the last decade , the amf ’ s access to the pharmaceutical industry has already issued a 的 drug index , which is particularly appropriate for quantitative easing in the fight against amr .
in my view , the new benchmark would have many benefits , especially equity analysts , who can consider adjusting their recommended shares according to the amf ’ s findings .
in assessing the process , i found that many investors do not understand the work of pharmaceutical companies in this regard .
so now .
i previously wrote that assessing the report issued ten commandments for tackling amr .
although the amf ’ s standards are not entirely directed at these ten sets , it does touch the areas that are most closely associated with the health-care industry .
the two areas of agriculture that are benefiting from the use of antibiotics and overuse of antibiotics are benefiting from two areas of their own quantitative benchmarks .
ultimately , microbes will create antibodies on any new drugs that we create , so we must also find ways to reduce overall demand for antibiotics .
for the sake of the drug fund , it will take a benchmark account for the eight pharmaceutical companies that are currently engaged in alternative drugs , generic drugs , and focused research and development efforts .
the fact that only eight “ big pharma ” has tried to develop new antibiotics and vaccines is a cause for serious concern .
the review concludes that if developing new drugs are not available , it could cause tens of millions of people to die from the disease by 2050 , causing a $ 100 billion loss .
one of the more radical arguments that we discussed in assessing is to “ pull ” the financial reward for companies that successfully develop new drugs .
we believe that effective market-entry rewards can be rewarded by a way of small tax on other 50 家药企 sales , because that is not the same as the other 50 pharmaceutical companies .
the new benchmark can be divided into three groups : research and development of new drugs ; manufacturing , production , and environmental standards ; and specific marketing and distribution practices , and specific marketing and distribution practices .
in the eight major pharmaceutical companies that are already developing , the uk company glaxosmithkline currently scores the highest score .
for those in practice , this is not surprising .
frankly , we do not believe that all eight companies are genuinely committed to this cause , but now they can be made clear at the basis of the benchmark .
it is worth remembering that , at the world economic forum ’ s annual meeting in january 2016 , more than 80 companies signed a declaration promising to seek solutions .
and more than 70 companies are not even on the list of new indices for drug access .
空口 白话 is cheap ; these firms should invest money in areas where they promise .
for generic producers , given that most firms operate in developing countries with environmental degradation , the most important possibility is the availability of the 基金会 foundation .
policymakers and business leaders in these countries should focus on the score on generic pharmaceutical firms , so that they can be expected to make improvements .
the third benchmark concerns biotech firms , which are conducting research on drugs that can combat “ first pathogens . ”
because specific advances can be rewarded for the future market-entry rewards or potential commercial potential , these classifications are particularly helpful for financial analysts and venture capitalists .
of course , new 评分标准 is important not only for companies themselves , but also for policymakers seeking to strike a balance between “ nudging ” institutions and the current priority .
a similar benchmark is made in setting similar benchmarks for major food producers and diagnostics .
indeed , i have long argued that diagnostic areas could be the only game changer in the fight against amr .
but now let us hope that pharmaceutical benchmarks receive the attention they deserve .
how to fight antimicrobial resistance
zurich – two weeks ago , g-20 leaders pledged to work together to address one of the world ’ s most pressing problems and one of the most troubling social threats – antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) – a sweeping and changing enemy , with routine treatment .
the threat is straightforward : bacteria and other microbes are resistant to existing drugs faster than the development rate of new drugs .
every year , resistant microbes kill 700,000 people worldwide – more than three times the number of deaths from armed conflict each year .
in 2016 , a special commission of the british government predicted that , by 2050 , as many as ten million people will die from drug-resistant microbes .
amr now poses a clear threat to everyone on the planet .
unless we face the problem , the world could return to the normal infections that kill people .
beyond the loss of human life , amr undermined the world economy .
in europe alone , the health-care costs and productivity losses associated with amr are estimated to be €150 billion .
the g20 has taken an important step forward .
g20 countries have committed themselves to implementing national plans to mitigate amr , and to increase new treatments for addressing resistant microbes .
here , g20 leaders have called for an international “ r & d partnership , ” to “ maximize the effectiveness of existing and new antibiotics and clinical research . ”
they also promise to explore how to use market incentives to advance new research .
beyond the g20 , innovative public-private partnerships are also providing new treatments for drug-resistant killers such as tuberculosis .
some governments have already begun to play a key role in curbing amr , gathering data that gather the data of drug-resistant strains in e. coli , salmonella , and other common pathogens .
now , political leaders will have to offer their promises .
given that new treatments for multidrug-resistant microbes are unlikely to yield a significant return on investment , governments have an incentive to make research on private companies more attractive to private companies , and to prevent the development of drug resistance .
when traditional market mechanisms fail , tools such as “ transferable market exclusivity ” can help , which allows pharmaceutical companies to transfer their intellectual property to another drug .
when private institutions join such partnerships , they must be prepared to work beyond traditional borders , accept the challenges posed by complex public programs , and are willing to offer their skills , ideas , and experience .
in dealing with amr , we can learn some important lessons from other global public-health initiatives .
malaria is a disease caused by a parasite , which is one of the most prominent causes of death in many parts of the world .
but many governments and private institutions have made it a high priority for the disease , which has halved the number of deaths in malaria over the past 15 years .
but the parasite ’ s parasite is developing artemisinin resistance , which is the most effective malaria treatment – based on artemisinin-based combinations .
artemisinin resistance first appeared in cambodia more than a decade ago , and then spread to thailand , laos , vietnam , myanmar , and china .
it is now approaching india , and experts determine that it will reach africa sooner or later .
according to a recent study , if artemisinin resistance is allowed to spread , malaria will kill at least 116,000 people every year .
unless new treatments exist , the tremendous progress that the world has made against malaria will be short-lived .
fortunately , those engaged in the global response to malaria recognize that we must adjust as parasites adjust .
new initiatives are underway to identify and minimize the spread of resistant malaria , while developing new 疗法 treatments .
for example , artemisinin resistance programs in the region are working to stem the spread of resistant malaria in the mekong delta region , monitoring and sharing drug resistance data , and promoting proper use of anti-malaria treatments .
so far , the program has received 1.10 million from the global fund for aids , tuberculosis , and malaria to fund the government .
moreover , novartis and the drug for malaria , aided by the bill & melinda gates foundation ( the help of the bill & melinda gates foundation ) , are likely to become new treatments for artemisinin resistant strains .
at the 2016 world economic forum in davos , switzerland , 100 companies , including novartis , signed the davos declaration on amr .
in this manifesto , we promised to work with governments to increase our investment in research and development , and enable the patients needed to develop high-quality antibiotics , thereby discouraging drug resistance .
one hopes that the g20 ’ s national plans can help us to meet these commitments .
but political leaders should also use action to prove words .
we urgently need more resources for drug resistance , stronger incentives for research and development , and innovative financing mechanisms to ensure access to precise diagnostic and quality health care .
the world can not afford to lose the fight against amr .
winning the war requires a large-scale public-private partnership , underpinned by a global leadership that puts global public health at a top priority .
murder in moscow
it is time to end the so-called “ dictatorship of law ” that has made postcommunist russia less lawless .
politkovskaya ’ s is one of russia ’ s bravest and best journalists , a woman who dared to expose russia ’ s military in chechnya to be murdered , and a new testament to putin ’ s repressive dictatorship , with his contempt for law and contempt for law .
the world , in particular , should be in a timely fashion .
germany ’ s foreign ministry is proposing a policy on germany ’ s relationship with russia that would ignore the violation of putin ’ s law as the country ’ s national interest .
but indifference to the means to encourage putin to impose his lawless behavior on the international stage has become palliative , as he has sought to stifle georgia ’ s economy .
the murder of politkovskaya has created a sense of déjà vu : this is a time when the kgb is rampant , and in putin ’ s russia , people simply disappeared .
politkovskaya ’ s is the third politically tinged in three weeks .
the deputy governor of the central bank , which is leading a campaign against financial fraud , was assassinated on september 14 .
russia ’ s overall review general , general 卡 将军 , is chairing politkovskaya ’ s investigation of the murder of politkovskaya , as he did in the case of his murder , and does not allow people to do so in a real democracy .
in fact , participation at the highest levels of russia ’ s government can almost certainly make it impossible to find a murderer .
if you recognize that politkovskaya is a powerful critic of russian president , her murder is particularly ominous .
in the name of a few of her few few independent newspapers in moscow , and her book vladimir putin ’ s russia : the life of the democracy is fading and a dirty war in chechnya , politkovskaya has described the rule of law under president vladimir putin .
just as the imprisonment of the former media tycoons boris berezovsky and the 古 of the oil giant mikhail khodorkovsky demonstrated , the result is three outcomes : exile , imprisonment , or the grave .
i am not accusing putin ’ s government of contract murders killing politkovskaya .
after all , as an aggressive investigative journalist , there are many enemies beyond putin , including chechnya , where prime minister kadyrov kadyrov has now accused him of hijacking his strategy for ransom .
but even if putin ’ s associates have nothing to do with politkovskaya ’ s 枪杀 电梯 in the center of the city ’ s apartment in downtown moscow , his contempt for law created the climate .
like the murder of the archbishop of canterbury in the archbishop of canterbury a century ago , the killers believed that it would please the king .
given what politkovskaya called on , the question of democracy is to question the kremlin and its policies , and the government should ensure that it does not suffer .
putin ’ s russia has lost 12 prominent journalists over the last six years .
none of these cases has been solved , and if putin ’ s “ dictatorship of law ” is better than a public-relations strategy .
the six years after putin ’ s entry into the kremlin are a sign of conflicting signals .
on one hand , the world sees a young , well-educated leader pledging to move russia toward modernization , especially in the implementation of the rule of law and judicial process .
on the other hand , when his former colleague in russia ’ s national security agency ( formerly the kgb ) did not provide security for those who were murdered , it stood idly by the notorious 间谍案 of journalists , scientists , and environmentalists .
these “ new spies ” include journalist 帕斯 , arms control specialists , diplomats , 外交官 达尼 , physicist valentin 达尼 , and others .
as a western partner , the civilizational influence of a western partner , such as the g-8 summit in saint petersburg , seems to have disappeared in putin ’ s kremlin .
in the face of the west ’ s values , it is another potemkin tyrant who is ruled by russian law and democracy .
the danger facing the world is that putin ’ s lawlessness is being exported .
in russia ’ s neighborhood , a criminal foreign policy is forming .
look at putin ’ s attempts to manipulate ukraine ’ s last presidential election , and to the opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko ’ s repeated criminal charges .
look at the rogue breakaway regions of moldova and georgia , where the kremlin exists .
consider how the kremlin can blackmail its neighbors by threatening to stop its energy supplies .
every policeman knows that when you ignore criminal behavior , criminals become even more frequent .
the world should have recognized how putin is one man : he is turning russia back into darkness .
so the world should now think about the old latin adage , “ silence means tolerance , ” and to consider a default putin to establish a 的 energy superpower .
an accidental cure for iraq
doctors often use the term “ 危象 ” to describe a period in which patients either start to recover or die .
most commentators seem to believe that bush ’ s latest prescription , a massive troop surge , would have been the inevitable end of the 灭亡 of the israeli dream of a democratic iraq .
but , beyond bush ’ s control , and not by him , it may be saved from the end of iraq .
one key factor is the arab sunni leaders ’ first support in iraq since the invasion of iraq and the united kingdom .
these sunni leaders live in miserable fear , and fear of the geopolitical earthquake that the regime ’ s disintegration brought , believing that it would inevitably trigger a full-scale civil war , which would not respect international borders .
of course , the us has been encouraging sunni leaders to believe this .
secretary of state condoleezza rice ’ s recent visit to the middle east , to egypt , jordan , saudi arabia , and the gulf states , would surely undermine their countries ’ stability and rush back into their country ’ s stability .
given these leaders ’ weak social controls , america ’ s warnings are being taken seriously .
but the strange factor that might have succeeded in bush ’ s success is that those who had previously opposed or resented america ’ s presence in iraq , such as the iran-backed shia sect , seem to want bush ’ s new strategy .
they support this new strategy because it will 剪除 assad ’ s 羽翼 militia , which has ballooned to most of the region ’ s territory over the past three years and has the allegiance of innumerable , angry shia youth .
of course , the infamous attack on assad ’ s mahdi army , which fought the death squads , is likely to push american military power into a city ’ s urban battle , the largest since the 2004 war of 2004 and 2005 .
assad is supposed to be the protector of the iraqi shia , with an estimated 60000 fighters .
other shia leaders , however , are deeply suspicious of their deep suspicion , fearing that they will come to deal with him .
or americans give him a ban on him , and , of course , these shi ’ ite leaders prefer to 勒死 down assad , rather than a showdown .
but make no mistake : if dealing with assad is a test of bush ’ s new strategy .
if the us chooses to engage with assad and his forces , they risk engaging with iraq ’ s largest community of sectarian communities – the risk of losing the shia , thus giving the bush opposition to the dismissal of the insurgency and possibly making bush defeat .
iran and syria have now played a 捣蛋 role in iraq , and now they may be eager to find ways to back the country from the brink .
bush still refuses to negotiate with each of them , and he recently ordered us troops to arrest iranian spies in iraq .
but , given that the current iraqi government is more friendly than any previous government in iran , iran may have considered itself a victory .
so it is iran ’ s strategic focus on maintaining the government ’ s governance , especially now , with any hope that america ’ s desire for iraq as a permanent military base has burst .
america ’ s massive troop surge is likely for the first time to root out anbar province , the heartland of the sunni insurgency .
the us has achieved relative success through alliances with sunni tribes .
what the us wants is that such realism can extend to iraqis who fought in the corridors of nationalism and opposition .
so bush may have some luck .
but , to sustain these luck , the iraqi government will need to modify the constitution to appease sunni communities .
assurances to sunnis that they will have a place in the new iraq would also reassure neighboring sunni governments that most of these governments are blind to the insurgency they have seen within their borders .
of course , if the us foresaw failure , it could seek to expand its war to iraq on its own territory , which is reminiscent of the so-called “ 余兴 action , ” which was reminiscent of what the us has lost in vietnam and triggered nixon ’ s attack on cambodia and laos .
iran , however , has the resources to master cambodia and laos ; indeed , its ability to retaliate can make the entire region ungovernable .
america ’ s war in indochina was a tragic disaster , and the price of a broader war fueled by the crisis in iraq would be even greater for patients and doctors alike .
an agenda for growth in europe
as europe ’ s demographic population worsens , and if it continues to grow more slowly than elsewhere in the industrialized economies , this gap is likely to widen .
why did the european economy fail to catch up with us income levels ?
the gap is largely due to inadequate labor use , with women , the biggest and most young , employment hours below the us , and , more importantly , the unemployment rate .
some are consolation , arguing that europeans prefer leisure more than work .
but the lower labor force is largely due to higher taxes and higher taxes , owing to high levels of social welfare , which are built in the labor force ’ s rapid demand for labor , replacing the needs of unemployment with active unemployment , and more aggressive unemployment .
these measures should be revisited to increase the supply of labor and to make public finances more sustainable .
this process is already underway , especially in italy and france , where the process of reducing unemployment by reducing the conditions for low-wage workers , and imposing tax credits for the “ working poor , ” is already underway .
since the 1990 ’ s , relative employment in these countries has actually reversed .
but , as well as the causes of welfare , the low employment rates of the eurozone economies , which have contributed to lower minimum wages , as well as some features of employment protection laws , have slowed workers ’ mobility through the flow of jobs .
though first in germany , more cautiously in france , and in france , where france is beginning to deal with a long list of reforms , the public ’ s understanding of the need for reform is limited .
with the experience of every country and the eu ’ s small countries , labor-market reforms are inevitably more national .
since the 1997 “ lisbon agenda , ” the european employment strategy has been established for all of the eu ’ s countries , and , “ lisbon agenda ” has established a set of goals for boosting productivity in europe .
but , because the policy approach to achieving these goals focuses mainly on countries , and in many member states , the policy strategy has created unrealistic expectations .
the employment gap with the us is not the only problem in europe .
the growth rate of hourly output per hour is a major factor in per capita income growth , which began in most of europe in the mid-1990 ’ s , and the us , in turn , reversed the decade-long pattern .
between 2000 and 2004 , hourly labor productivity in the us grew by 2.8 % per year , and the eurozone economy was slightly more than 1 % .
so why can ’ t europe be able to maintain growth at the same time of growth and productivity , as well as on employment and productivity ?
this is possible not only in the united states , but in other advanced economies outside europe , such as australia , canada , new zealand , and surprisingly new eu members .
the cost of capital is typically linked to productivity , but it can not be explained .
this is where productivity can be explained only by 要素 elements .
the so-called total factor productivity is a composite factor of several key factors , including innovative activity , well-functioning financial systems , and willingness to take risks , and to facilitate organizational flexibility in new technologies .
europe ’ s tfp growth over the past decade has largely lagged behind services ( excluding information and communications technology ) .
so the eurozone ’ s total factor productivity would be essential if it is to improve , and that it is essential that most of the eu ’ s economies are , in this area , created two-thirds of total income .
while product markets are central to building a single european single market , services continue to be fragmented by countries ’ regulation and anti-competitive practices .
the main explanation is the diversity of services , as well as the mutual recognition , or the “ country-of-origin principle , ” which is crucial to the services market .
unfortunately , reform was derailed in 2005 .
in the run-up to the referendum on the european union ’ s draft constitution , the proposed directive on services was vilified as undermining the rights of workers , which were reflected in “ polish plumbers . ”
these attacks ignore the fact that the eu directive is subject to employment conditions for workers from the rest of the eu to the rules of the host country .
a revised version of the directive now gives the european parliament a number of compromises , in principle , to the european parliament .
although improving productivity is called the eu ’ s common goal , it is still unable to reach a consensus on a 法律 law that inevitably is a sad condition for the eu .
the eu ’ s new member states have a stake in mobilizing their interest in mobilizing european solidarity , but it is particularly disappointing for them .
a civilized alliance
madrid – the international forum for the first civilization of the concept of a “ clash of civilizations ” that is supposed to produce a “ clash of civilizations ” has recently been held in madrid , revealing that robert kagan ’ s view of the us from mars , and from venus to europeans , is very plausible .
since september 11 , 2001 , the us has been pursuing a crusade against the forces of evil in muslim societies .
by contrast , the september 11 , 2004 , terrorist attacks on spain , which killed 200 people in spain , triggered the “ counterinsurgency movement ” to eliminate extremism by establishing understanding and reconciliation with islam .
the alliance of civilizations initiative , launched by spain and turkey , is not entirely political .
for spaniards , it could help to demonstrate that they were suddenly withdrawing from iraq in 2004 ; for turkey , it was another means of seeking to join the eu as an islamic and west bridge .
as a loose and somewhat vague program , a civilized alliance aims to cure the wounds of conflict between islam and the west by educating education , viable integration policies , and a better dialogue with the media .
but it faces considerable skepticism about the major powers , with the us , russia , and , in this case , the eu very reluctant .
despite vague , the idea of a civilized alliance can not be more damaging than the war with islamic extremism .
in any case , the problem with any muslim society and the conflict with the west is not much needed to resolve the extent of force .
moreover , if its goal is to lift the west out of political arrogance and to establish genuine cooperation with the muslim community , culture , and science , the alliance can not be described as an entirely 内聚力 proposal .
of course , this idea has been hampered by forces within both sides of the proposed coalition .
many in the west question whether islam can be inclusive and western .
for many years , the muslims who fought their country ’ s modernization have not been able to articulate a clear response to the surge in radical islam .
the belief that islam is not inclusive is tantamount to the belief that it is a 古板 civilization .
this is a historic fallacy .
the belief that islam is fundamentally opposed to viable innovations is also wrong , because muslim civilization has contributed mightily to science and culture historically .
today , universities in western countries have almost all distinguished arab scholars , the result of a brain drain that reflects the islamic community ’ s centuries of decline .
in 2005 , the 17 arab countries published a total of 13444 科学著作 , compared to a 15455 department published in harvard university .
but the rational enemies also exist in western societies .
we live in a age of secular politics that is no longer illusions about secular politics , but not only in muslim societies , but also in the center of western civilization , as well as the 美国 of the christian european and faith .
israel , for its part , is not immune to this phenomenon , but there is a political theology that is suspicious of messianic fanatics and religious nationalists there .
the current crisis in islam may not be congenital , but the islamic society does face a huge dilemma .
the problem is that muslims are ready to accept ayatollah khomeini ’ s dictum that “ islam is politics , and that it is a religion , ” as is the form of religion , not the form of government , as in christianity , caesar , and god .
those who want change in muslim societies must recognize that theocracy is never a vehicle for human progress .
of course , the alliance of civilizations should not attempt to eliminate differences in perceptions by defending moral relativism .
if it is the 负罪 complex of the western guilt complex that is supposed to solve the plight of muslim societies , one should be skeptical .
tolerance and religious freedom must be mutual .
from the islamic side , it should guarantee that human rights and people free , improve women ’ s status , and realistic policies to stop the islamic society ’ s explosion .
some people , as usual , have the same conflict between islam and the west , and resolving the palestinian difficulties can greatly boost the relationship between both sides .
but arabs and muslims can no longer naively believe that the conflict between israel and palestine is a cause for blocking them .
ending america ’ s occupation of iraq and promoting peace between arabs and israel will help , but it is not a panacea .
the fight against poverty , illiteracy , and corruption , and islam ’ s admiration for science , does not depend on the outcome of the middle east peace process .
an alliance of equals
paris – as nato celebrates its 60th anniversary in strasbourg , it has yet another two member states : albania and croatia .
at this point , nato ’ s membership has increased to 28 .
in the history of history , the two countries ’ political and cultural stability is good for both countries ’ political and cultural stability .
but the benefits now seem to be limited .
there is no substantive change .
the problem is clear as france has a controversial return to nato ’ s military system .
has france lost its autonomy , even the loss of sovereignty ?
or is it a us hegemony ?
at the nato summit , these real questions are not addressed , and the significance of the discussion is more symbolic than practical solutions .
what is the reality ?
nato is a military alliance composed of 28 countries .
as one of the member states , it spends three times more budget per year than any other member state combined .
so the us effectively implemented most of nato ’ s military and civilian order .
of course , in terms of procedures , nato resolutions are known and discussed .
but the us has a special impact on all decisions .
the structure of this structure , of course , has its historical background , with nato being established as an invasion of western civilization .
at the time , no one questioned the soviet union ’ s only rival , the soviet union .
as it stands , the us is under us control .
during the 41 years of the cold war , 14 of the 16 member states strictly adhered to us policy and order .
the only exception is french president charles de gaulle , who is questioning the soviet union ’ s attack on the soviet union if he had not involved the interests of america ’ s own interests .
based on this question , france withdrew from nato ’ s military system in 1966 , in which france became a nuclear state ( in 1960 ) .
the decision was made by the us in 1962 , following the so-called “ flexible response ” to the so-called “ flexible response ” to the us , and the implication was that “ so long as the soviet union did not impose a nuclear attack on the us , the us will not use nuclear weapons . ”
but , while the decision in the united states is questionable , the decision is probably correct in the context of the united states , where the decision is not underway .
both henry kissinger and robert mcnamara admitted that de gaulle was right .
but , to say the least , the french exit has led to some mistrust within nato .
france is right , but it is not a good thing for nato .
there is already widespread and deep debate about the instability arising from the french exit from nato .
strategic rules are still holding back nato ’ s development , at the strasbourg conference , where the future of nato , if discussed , is a promise .
but the fact is that more of the meetings are over the past .
at the heart of the problem is whether nato ’ s law , which nato ’ s common defense should be , should be taken under a state , or whether nato is vital to nato ’ s vital safeguards .
from the current reality , nuclear weapons are unlikely to be used in the future .
the world ’ s current threats are no longer at stake , and why can nato ’ s conflict be at the heart of the problem ?
the most important issue at the conference was not discussed , namely the relationship between nato and russia .
nato was created 60 years ago to fight the soviet union .
as the “ warsaw treaty ” of the soviet union ’ s 军事 alliance , the “ warsaw treaty ” of the soviet union was dissolved in 1991 , as the communist regime collapsed , and russia embraced a market economy and began to look back at its own .
as russia ’ s peace strategy , nato has not dissolved the warsaw pact .
instead , nato has moved to russia ’ s neighbors .
the fundamental idea of nato ’ s member states is that “ we western societies do not trust you , even if you become a democratic state , and we remain suspicious . ”
george kennan , one of the world ’ s greatest diplomats after world war ii , once wrote that the west ’ s most egregious mistake in 50 years was the collapse of the soviet communist regime after the fall of communism .
the result is that the russian elite suffers from the attack and feelings of humiliation , so that the current policy of rearmament continues to widen .
if it is to solve this problem , nato should make peace with the world .
if it is to be said , the us should rein in its excessive power , and america ’ s handling of iraq is a case in point .
the us should abandon the military dictatorship of the past and turn its respect for member states ’ opinions .
ultimately , all member states should be treated equally .
france ’ s return to nato is a good sign , and france should have been trying to maintain its principles .
avoiding america ’ s new recession
cambridge – the united states may be headed for a recession in 2013 .
even if it avoids the “ fiscal cliff , ” a poor political compromise that cuts the deficit too soon could have pushed an already weak economy into recession .
but a gradual cap on tax credits ( so-called tax expenditures ) can be combined with reform of entitlement spending that would constitute a fiscal consolidation that the us needs to avoid another recession .
last year , the us economy is headed at a lower rate than 2 % , and the outlook for 2013 is as bleak as it was in the absence of fiscal cliff .
president barack obama ’ s proposal to replace the fiscal cliff would raise tax rates for the top 2 % of earners substantially , limiting their tax credits , and now account for more than 45 % of the federal personal-income tax .
together , these changes would lower aggregate demand by about 2 % of gdp .
higher marginal tax rates would discourage incentives to work and invest , further weakening economic activity .
this is a fateful case for a economy that is still struggling to sustain a growth rate of less than 2 % .
the congressional budget office and the fed ’ s projected demise in the fiscal cliff will lead to recession in 2013 , and fed chairman ben bernanke recently declared that the fed can not sterilize the negative effects of the economy .
bernanke might also have said that to the fiscal drag caused by obama ’ s budget proposals .
although congressional republicans are right to respond to higher tax rates , they seem willing to raise revenues by tax reform , if that is part of the long-term cost of cutting the main welfare program – a long-term cost of medicare and social security .
although some republicans are willing only to see revenue increases caused by faster economic growth , this goal can not be achieved , if marginal tax rates are at the top of the tax reform that democrats can not accept .
raising revenue by tax reform would mean reducing a special tax cut , which currently stands in favor of tax revenues .
the potential recession of the budget package can be avoided by adopting a way to increase the revenue of the tax base gradually .
a reasonable way to broaden the tax base would be to limit the total amount of tax cuts that each taxpayer can receive through tax breaks .
total restrictions allow each taxpayer to continue to receive all existing deductions for tax credits , but limiting the scale of the tax burden that he can cut through this approach .
the total limit would also encourage a large number of individuals who currently use a reference point to the standard deduction – which implies a dramatic simplification of tax registration , and thus improved incentives .
tax cuts to tax expenditures that stem from tax expenditures ( 2 % of each individual adjusted for each individual ’ s adjusted 毛收入 ) would raise $ 200 billion in 2013 , if applied to the current tax deduction for the interest of all municipal bonds and employers .
even if the tax cuts for charity were preserved , i regard high high-value health insurance as a tax on taxes , and the extra income that the 2013 income will still reach $ 150 billion .
ten years later , the proposal meant that an additional $ 2 trillion in revenue would be added without current increases in the tax rate .
the $ 150 billion extra income in 2013 will amount to 1 % of gdp , and the us economy is not so large , especially if it is added to government spending cuts and payroll taxes .
but the same basic framework can be achieved by erecting higher starts and reducing it for years to come .
5 % of the benefits would be $ 75 billion in revenue in 2013 , about 1 % of gdp ; but that would be a much larger amount of revenue in the coming years , when the economy is stronger .
slowing the government ’ s spending on medicare and social security is necessary to avoid a long-term explosion of national debt and higher personal tax rates .
these changes should also be implemented gradually to protect beneficiaries and avoid economic downturns .
america ’ s national debt has doubled in the last five years , unless changes in spending and tax change are implemented , and will be set to exceed 100 % of gdp over the next decade .
a combination of well-designed tax expenditures and a gradual slowdown in spending on entitlement programs could reverse the trend toward rising debt and strengthen the us economy .
the current budget negotiations in the united states should focus on a credible reduction in a credible national debt , while protecting the short-term economic expansion .
the arab “ third way ”
amman – throughout the post-colonial period , arab countries have failed to establish effective – not to mention democratic – institutions .
now , after a half-century of competition between military or royal dictatorships and military islamism , many arabs are once again looking for a “ third way ” – a path toward a credible representative democracy .
but did their efforts fail today , as they have in the past ?
the middle east – whose name is rooted in the geography of europe and east asia – belonged to 400 years of ottoman rule , and then the ottoman empire was defeated by the ottoman empire in world war i , with the middle east under the sykes-picot agreement , and the middle east is divided by the sykes-picot agreement .
but , as the new divisions emerge , the arab awakening is rooted in the arab awakening .
but they have failed to deliver better lives to their citizens , with the left losing credibility because of the collapse of the soviet union , resulting in a rival movement – political islam .
the muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 by the egyptian town of 1928 伊斯梅 , was the most established , best organized , and most widely influenced political islam , and it was ( still so ) despised by the secular arabs and arab monarchies .
indeed , the secular dictator has imposed repression on every turn – often violent repression , such as the brutal crackdown in 1982 , when assad ruthlessly crushed the muslim brotherhood ’ s 哈马 uprising .
being forced underground by a social agenda that aims to win the needs of the poor won support , and it has become a social network of social networks through coercive “ 天课 ” ( financial donations to religion ) .
the brotherhood is prepared to secure power at a time when its conservative society and mosque help .
another islamist movement , algeria ’ s islamist salvation front , has gained this opportunity in 1991 , when it won the first round of elections .
but the military canceled the second round , thereby preventing it , triggering an eight-year civil war that has killed roughly 200,000 people .
palestine ’ s hamas is also a branch of the muslim brotherhood , which succeeded in the 2006 election campaign , but it has since failed to cede a convincing track record .
then the arab spring erupted in 2011 , creating new opportunities for political renewal .
within a few months , the islamist parties that armed the idea of 以穆 armed forces toppled secular dictators in tunisia and egypt , and are prone to take over yemen and syria , largely because they are the only well-organized political movements .
moreover , the muslim brotherhood won the largest , most influential country in the arab spring , egypt .
but their exclusive rigidity is not suited to governing such a large and diverse country .
as a result , after only one year in power , the military ousted president mohamed morsi , while backing the military ’ s backing in 2011 .
but , unable to provide political alternatives , the protesters ’ rejection of islamist governments ultimately led to a return to power centers .
some argue that arab politics lacks a secular , liberal choice because of fear of political islam .
for decades , western powers have supported military rule in the arab world , intentionally ignoring their systematic repression of democratic movements and rights , to ensure that islam does not win power .
today , both the military leadership and the institutions leading the islamic leadership have been discredited , with a vacuum in arab politics .
but today ’ s arabs – most of which are less than 30 years old – are interested in a dominant political position , preferring effective representative government , which is more willing to implement policies aimed at creating jobs and boosting economic growth .
in short , they want governments to focus on improving their people ’ s lives .
indeed , the absence of ideology is the first time in the arab spring ’ s success in egypt and tunisia , because it enabled many young activists to form loose alliances .
but the mass movement will only push a country to this point , establishing a credible representative government that demands a political party organized around well-defined guidelines .
the muslim brotherhood has the organizing principle , but its internal rigidity – at least from morsi ’ s general morsi – determines it .
at the same time , infighting among egypt ’ s liberals has determined that they can not form a disciplined , reliable alternative to the principles of the brotherhood , based on principles such as diversity , support , and respect for women and freedom of expression .
as a result , when the islamic government ’ s credibility was discredited , the military became egypt ’ s only option .
in order to make progress , the leading movement led by the arab spring must translate their common principles into effective political structures , and elect leaders who are capable of looking for consensus over individual ambition .
if they succeed , the arab world may finally be able to identify alternatives to rule by generals or mullahs .
even if they fail to win power , the emergence of such an alternative is bound to affect the arab world ’ s agenda for years to come .
an american oil spill
singapore – whenever accidents occur , there will always be a lot of blame , and , when oil spills in the gulf of mexico ’ s deep horizon are oil spills , they can no longer be left – in addition to the us public .
after weeks of outrage , the main responsibility ultimately landed on bp .
at hearings at the us senate hearings , the company ’ s ceo , tony 海伍德 , and 答非所问 答非所问 , not only infuriated congressmen , but also the american public .
he has said that “ remorse ” is a sign of relief , feeling the key culprit , but there is no help to stop the wells .
the leak is not the equivalent of the british oil company ’ s projected 1,000 barrels per day , or the 万桶 of the technology network , which recently disclosed – ten million barrels per day .
while the accident would undoubtedly have a large number of victims – the residents of the gulf states – the us public will not escape the blame .
their obsession with cheap oil , as well as the use of “ un-american lifestyles , ” has fueled an effort to try to reduce the state ’ s energy problem by drilling , 围堰 , and mining .
this emphasis on supply ( increasing energy consumption by changing people ’ s lifestyles ) has papered over the way needed to solve problems by reducing demand ( and reducing energy consumption by changing people ’ s lifestyles ) .
for example , americans should support higher fuel-economy standards or raise federal energy taxes , but they refuse to do so .
the americans have a delusion that their natural right to live in cheap oil and big cars is a natural right for many years , but politicians have been treated like the plague , like the plague , to the detriment of the plague .
americans have long enjoyed the cheapest gasoline in the developed world .
moreover , the country has failed to anticipate that the rise of china and india will trigger an explosive demand for fuel , with a significant impact on global energy prices .
and , in fact , sophisticated engineering techniques have partly closed the gap between supply and demand .
there is no doubt that technology such as three-dimensional 地质 and pipeline drilling , which is not accompanied by appropriate contingency responses , can easily be problematic if it is not accompanied by the appropriate contingency response or the oversight of accidents and accidents .
today , these problems are clear , so that obama immediately reached the approval of a moratorium on all deep ocean drilling , and triggered doubts about all existing projects in the gulf of mexico .
even if the adjustment of offshore drilling processes and policies is urgent , it is inevitable that it will be incomplete without other measures to control demand .
for example , it is time to reduce us oil demand by raising fuel-economy standards and/or raising fuel taxes .
both measures are necessary , because , when the efficiency of fuel uses a small amount of improvement in recent years , a longer travel has escaped these improvements .
governments can also promote a shift to electric vehicles .
in terms of the cost of good life , such vehicles are more than four times more energy-efficient than 节能 vehicles .
people can even change their way of life by contributing to the adequacy of tires , on the basis of the highway ( 90 kilometers per hour per hour ) , and the 方法 of their suv ’ s suv .
“ from the crisis ” to the entire process of shale drilling on the horizon , the “ crisis ” has been 耳边 , but it must take advantage of the past charges , from the wrong past , and to find a practical long-term national energy policy .
if americans don ’ t want to have another accident on the horizon of a deep sea horizon , they will have to reduce their own oil needs , and they must be sure that they will have to reduce their own oil needs and secure security .
the answer to russia ’ s challenges
berlin – for 19 years , the west ( the us and europe ) have been dragging on the answers to a key strategic question : what role should post-soviet russia play in the international , european order ?
should it be treated as a difficult partner , or is it a strategic adversary ?
even in the run-up to the brief war in georgia last summer , the west was not able to provide a definitive answer to the problem .
if you follow most eastern european countries , the uk , and the bush administration , the answer is “ strategic adversary . ”
but most west european countries tend to think that russia is a “ difficult partner . ”
these two ostensibly mutually exclusive options are common in one thing : there is no end to them .
while russia is no longer the superpower of the soviet era , it remains a great power , at least in europe and asia .
in response to many regional conflicts ( iran , the middle east , afghanistan , central asia , north korea ) , and those on the agenda in the west ( climate protection , disarmament , arms control , energy security , energy security ) , western and russian cooperation is necessary .
the strategic confrontation between the west and moscow , such as the new “ 冷战 cold war , ” undermines the agenda , or at least complicate its implementation .
so , the question for the west is whether the threat emanating from russia is serious to strategic reorientation in the west ?
i think the answer is no .
putin ’ s claim to power , and its great-power policies , is structurally vulnerable .
this is especially true when oil prices fall below $ 40 per barrel .
moreover , putin knows it .
from a demographic perspective , russia is in a sharp decline ; its economic and social sectors are backsliding ; its infrastructure is lagging , and so is investment in education and vocational training .
economically , it relies mainly on energy and commodity exports , and , in its modern efforts , it largely relies on the west , particularly europe .
but , given its geopolitical position and its potential , russia remains a permanent strategic factor in europe and asia .
so it is in the west ’ s interest to integrate russia into a strategic partnership .
but achieving this will require a western policy based on long-term considerations and a self-confident and powerful position , because the kremlin will view any disagreement and weakness as an encouragement to its return to great russia .
a few months ago , the russian government proposed a proposal to negotiate a new european order within the framework of the osce framework .
russia believes that the agreement signed in the 1990 ’ s was unjust , because these agreements were based on the weakness of russia , and wanted to change them .
russia ’ s main strategic objective is to weaken nato as a nato ally , or even step back , and to re-establish its influence in eastern europe and central asia .
putin , however , has taken a big mistake , because all of these objectives are unacceptable to the west , and the kremlin does not seem to understand that nato has the best and most effective foreign policy in the past .
as a mother of marxism-leninism , its leaders still seem not to understand dialectics .
after all , if russia ’ s government really wants to change the status quo in the post-soviet status quo , it should be pursuing a policy of reducing their concerns over its neighbors , rather than raising concerns .
but , if , in turn , this applies to the west : the principle of a new europe , established by the organization for security and cooperation in europe after 1989 , could not be allowed to veto the decisions of the coalition .
the same is true of free and secret elections , as well as the inviolability of borders .
on the other hand , the missile defense system in poland and the czech republic , and the potential for nato membership in georgia and ukraine , is responsible for the underlying unnecessary confrontations .
the west should not reject russia ’ s expectations of a new european security system .
instead , it should be viewed as an opportunity to answer the key question of russia ’ s position in europe .
here , nato must play a central role , because it is absolutely necessary for most european countries and for the us .
the west and russia may be able to deal with the rules and mechanisms that the post-soviet bloc , including nato , has been governed , and the principles and institutions that russia has embraced are greatly enhanced , including the possibility of nato ’ s full membership .
the peripheral of the nato-russia council is clearly not enough , and it does not work .
but why not consider transforming nato into a true european security system , including russia ?
if this is true , the rules of the game change , and a wide range of strategic objectives – europe ’ s security , conflict between neighboring states , energy security , and arms prevention – can be achieved .
but it has a greater impact on russia .
if the west is talking about these issues in russia , without illusions , and knowing its strategic interests , the worst of a partnership with russia is failing .
of course , such an approach would require two conditions that do not exist in current conditions : the transatlantic approach to russia , and a more consistent and consistent european union .
yet the challenge posed by russia does not allow for further procrastination .
addressing it is crucial .
the uses of nuclear ambitions
madrid – on november 24 , iran and the p5+1 ( the five permanent members of the united nations security council plus germany ) demonstrate an important question about iran ’ s nuclear program : sanctions worked .
the interim agreement is for the first time in a more than a decade , iran ’ s first compromise on its nuclear program , a diplomatic victory that has long overshadowed the specter of military intervention .
but some are happy .
aside from the ambiguities and limitations of the six-month agreement , the negotiations have clearly exposed iran ’ s nuclear weapons program , which is more broadly regarded as a geostrategic symbol .
this suggests that a comprehensive agreement is difficult to achieve , and the caveat that international efforts may only be a series of small deals that delay iran ’ s nuclear weapons program , without eliminating the nuclear threat to iran .
the headlines of a historic deal mask limited and ambiguous rules .
the joint statement of the eu ’ s high representative catherine ashton and iranian foreign minister javad zarif points out that the agreement was “ a plan for joint action ” that is “ clear long-term solutions . ”
while the first step toward “ delivering a comprehensive solution and the environment ” is a first step , the interim agreement is largely a measure of trust .
indeed , the obligations called “ voluntary measures ” refer to obligations .
at best , the agreement has maintained the current status quo , allowing iran to develop further its nuclear program in some respects .
in this sense , iran ’ s arak nuclear plant , which is forthcoming , is likely to be the most troubling project in the interim agreement .
while iran promised not to transfer its nuclear fuel or heavy water in the geneva agreement , it is not entrusted to the reactor ’ s construction , but its construction of reactor construction seemed to have no effective delay .
the international atomic energy agency concluded that the arak plant ’ s 控制室 equipment and several key reactors , including cooling pumps , remain in place .
thus , iran would be using the trust of six months to advance its plutonium program .
given this week ’ s french media coverage of shiraz , the facility could be used to separate plutonium and produce the fissile material needed to produce nuclear weapons .
there is no denying that iran ’ s drive to produce nuclear weapons is partly concerned with security concerns .
but nationalism is a more important factor .
not only does all of the great powers have nuclear weapons ; in iran ’ s eyes , the problem is a small number of small states – particularly neighboring pakistan and israel – that possess nuclear weapons .
the iranians regard themselves as the heirs to the great ancient civilization of the past , and that their ambitions reflect the process of achieving regional preeminence .
moreover , they believe that their country has been discriminated against and marginalized , with aggressive international condemnation .
nearly 70 years after the bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki , the world still regards nuclear weapons as a seat in geopolitics .
germany is the only exception , but it is not particularly important on geostrategic issues ; though japan is most aware of the horrors of nuclear war , it has important powers to call for change .
the nuclear non-proliferation regime , which has become a symbol of national power , as a symbol of national power , has consolidated the world into a nuclear non-proliferation regime .
as long as possessing nuclear weapons remains the clearest way to demonstrate its great-power status , the ability to develop nuclear weapons will be tempting for countries like iran , even perjury .
we need a worldwide shift away from nuclear weapons to geopolitical power .
efforts to cut off these linkages do not succeed , as the kremlin ’ s proposal to cut nuclear stockpiles from us president barack obama can attest .
moreover , with nuclear weapons states beyond the p5+1 , the country ’ s nuclear arsenal has been nearly three times larger than it was in the past decade .
iran ’ s interim agreement is an important juncture .
after all , the agreement shows that international sanctions can work , and diplomatic progress – albeit narrow – is possible .
we can be both realistic and realistic .
but a comprehensive agreement with iran – and the necessary elements of the future – will require broader reform : this requires that the world not only abolish nuclear weapons , but also recognizes that its deterrent deterrent is unsustainable .
insecure europe
madrid – over the last five years , europe has experienced financial and economic crises , and many citizens of europe have lost their lives .
the good news is that the european union ’ s economic and monetary system has finally made progress , which will help to return to the path of growth .
but eu leaders ’ attention has focused on the eu ’ s internal , particularly security policy , which ignores external policy .
as 2014 begins , fears of economic insecurity will give way to the eu ’ s strategic orientation .
the european council ’ s meeting in december is a sign of a return to a more outward-looking policy approach , particularly on security matters .
unfortunately , this hope was quickly dashed .
in fact , the meeting passed several distinct solutions , though it is interesting , but lacks the breadth and scope of the necessary , and to consolidate through outdated and weak strategic frameworks .
the flawed nature of the current european security strategy ( ess ) , drafted in 2003 and adopted in 2008 , reflects the context of its concept .
the ess was developed in the wake of the iraq war , which was developed by a hasty and passive process , and is being held hostage by those who are intent on defining europe as america ’ s counterweight or even hostile power .
worse still , since the ess drafted , the geopolitical environment has changed fundamentally , owing to the shift toward asia , the turmoil in the arab world , renewed russian assertiveness , and america ’ s growing isolationism .
as a result , the ess has not adapted to the realities of the current world , from its opening – “ europe never so prosperous . ”
to be sure , the ess ’ s three basic principles – development assistance , soft power , and effective multilateralism remain important .
but europe ’ s leaders must reconceive these concepts in the context of today ’ s challenges .
in terms of development , europe must escape the notion that its aid must be used to increase trade linkages , and recognize the importance of foreign investment .
indeed , globally , net private capital inflows in developing countries are nearly ten times larger than official development assistance .
as the world ’ s second-largest source of foreign direct investment , the eu has considerable influence , with european investors giving the project and the region credibility , thereby facilitating more investment .
for example , morocco ’ s 扎扎 太阳能 solar power plant and its program of potable water are supported by the eu ’ s €315 million ( $ 1.3 million ) investment fund , supported by the eu ’ s 周边 investment fund .
the ess ’ s emphasis on soft power is also urgently needed .
the wave of protests in the arab world has led some europeans to believe that these countries will somehow emulate the west , values , and norms .
but , while this did not materialize , the european principles certainly have not lost their appeal , exemplified by the recent decision by president viktor yanukovych in ukraine to make a break with europe .
as the rise of non-traditional threats grows , europe has increasingly ignored traditional security risks such as inter-state warfare , arguing that they are no longer relevant – a concept reflected in the ess .
but , as china ’ s increasingly assertive stance in the south and east china seas demonstrates , this perception is not only wrong , but probably dangerous .
this brings us to the ess ’ s third principle : advancing “ a stronger international community , well-functioning international institutions , and rules-based international order . ”
here , the problem is the lack of commitment , which the eu would prefer to choose with ad hoc informal arrangements , and unwilling to reform the institutions of effective multilateralism like the un , the international monetary fund , and the world bank .
indeed , the eu has been one of the most recent “ g ” clubs – the latest version of the g-20 .
moreover , while the embodiment of international law , the eu is obsessed with the 软法 approach , whether at the cop 气候变化 conference in warsaw or the “ geneva agreement ” on iran ’ s nuclear program , it is clear that the media have greatly exaggerated the results of this .
in the process of developing new security strategies , the eu must consider america ’ s role as a key part of a geopolitical environment , and the us is not a foil , but a subtle partner .
in addition to nato ( though it is at a low ebb , it remains important ) , and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership provides a good opportunity to create a rule-based international order .
the european union may have been declining , but the spectacular images of the maidan square of kyiv are powerful reminder that europe ’ s core values remain attractive .
what the eu needs now is an updated external policy that uses its attractiveness to build influence , security , and prosperity , thereby avoiding irrelevance .
russia and the silk road approach
madrid – ukraine ’ s collapse has brought the west to three major foreign-policy challenges : the danger of isolating russia , the puzzle of china ’ s indifference , and the widespread lack of new ideas .
overcoming these challenges will require a concerted effort by countries with different political systems and national interests to strengthen cooperation and build trust .
chinese president xi jinping ’ s silk road economic belt is instructive .
europe ’ s response to the crisis in ukraine and the us has failed in two ways .
first and foremost , the response is weak , which is a sign of weakness , undermining its ability to reverse russia ’ s annexation of crimea ( which is already accepted in tactics ) and its ability to contain its aggression towards eastern ukraine .
at the same time , targeted sanctions and diplomatic boycotts have intensified russia ’ s international isolation , undermining the long-term objective of building functional relationships .
it is vital for the west to stick to its principles , including by implementing harsh sanctions , but it is also vital .
after all , a weak , isolated russia is far more dangerous than a strong and internationally integrated russia .
moreover , there is no denying that relations with russia have now burst , with mutual trust falling to the lowest level since the soviet union ’ s collapse .
in this context , bringing russia back to the international stage will require china ’ s engagement .
but , for china , the problem is complex , because it is in china ’ s interest to build closer ties to russia , and , in some ways , the parallels between china ’ s actions in tibet and russia .
given this – and china ’ s long history of gaining global leadership – it is possible that china will participate in it only if targeted incentives for specific goals are motivated by targeted goals .
and the silk road economic belt is providing this , as i saw in recent visits to beijing .
in september , the goal was to improve links between asia and the european markets , including those along the lines of 18 central asian and european countries , including russia .
the plan – aimed at building shared prosperity through people-to-people exchanges , high trade flows , and increased currency transfers – is precisely the condition of the world to avoid a return to the cold war .
after all , the best way to build cooperation and trust is to ensure that it provides clear benefits to all parties .
although chinese officials talk about strengthening people-to-people exchanges , relaxing restrictions on foreign currency , and reducing trade barriers , reviving and modernizing the old silk road will require a well-functioning infrastructure that is central to both the functioning of and multilateral connectivity .
consolidation of a powerful transport network composed of roads , waterways , air , and oceans can produce a hierarchy effect , helping to optimize supply chains , thereby providing significant – and immediate – economic benefits .
today , freight freight from china to europe is less than half that of shipping .
but there is one danger : china may pursue a bilateral approach , using the program to serve its narrow foreign-policy interests .
although china may have a way to finance the large-scale infrastructure projects that it needs , such fragmented strategies will undermine integration and increase the perception that china ’ s rise will threaten the international order .
china ’ s leaders should recognize that if the silk road economic belt is to fulfill its potential , it must take a broader vision of a broader organization comprising financing diversification , 多边 multilateral , and multiple actors .
the world bank recently supported such a model by supporting such an open perspective , which will connect multilateral , regional , and national public actors , and the private sector to finance infrastructure development .
the g-20 , the fund ’ s de facto international priority , has endorsed the project .
applying this comprehensive model to the silk road project – especially by combining europe , china , russia , and multilateral institutions – would strengthen existing incentives .
for example , this would strengthen the region ’ s economic cooperation initiative , which is now operating under the auspices of the asian development bank , which now operates under the auspices of the asian development bank .
but , beyond joint financing , effective cooperation is the key to this project ’ s success .
here , europe ’ s experience of compromise and harmonization is essential .
in order to improve its fragmented transportation system , the eu design a core corridor – compatible with major transnational traffic flows and addressing the absence of links and gaps – to form the infrastructure of integration , 互容 , and harmonization .
this approach has been a catalyst for negotiating with different stakeholders .
europe ’ s railway traffic system has overcome the lack of consensus among member states ’ security and security standards , creating a unified system that is just one of many successes in this innovative strategy .
europe has shown that a sense of common ownership , together with concrete objectives , can encourage constructive dialogue , opening the doors of mutually beneficial cooperation .
the silk road provides not only economic opportunity ; it is in the long-term security interests of participants .
today , europe can not afford to miss this opportunity , despite the destruction of a large number of connections .
making iran less cold
madrid – rapprochement between iran and the west has long been a “ 白鲸 ” of global politics .
but an increasingly obvious trend is that the world may be on the verge of a new epoch , with a new feature of the country – especially between iran and the us – but , since iran ’ s islamic revolution in 1979 , has been unable to reconcile .
the need for such cooperation led to a joint 圆桌会议 round of 贝尔格 圆桌会议 , a joint organization for science and international security , together with the institute for international security .
i attended this conference , which , by 30 politicians , senior officials , and experts from europe , the united states , and iran , discussed the future of this relationship , producing important insights into future policymaking .
in the middle east , where countries have struggled , territorial sovereignty is difficult to sustain , and , in particular , the meeting will be premature .
to reverse the middle east ’ s slide into chaos , a strong stabilizing force is needed to underpin concerted action aimed at curbing sectarian conflict .
here , iran has a key role to play .
iran ’ s history and culture have made it a certain authority in the middle east , with iran having one of the region ’ s few governments capable of responding to geopolitical developments .
this is irrelevant to its vast oil reserves , though oil reserves ensure that it is crucial in a complex global energy situation , especially for europe , which is committed to reducing its dependence on russian energy imports .
the problem is that iran has always wasted its leadership potential , choosing the role of spoilers , especially the use of proxy armies .
this upset is more necessary for cooperation , underpinned by a strong incentive for iran to maintain its constructive and moderate foreign policy .
here , iran ’ s nuclear negotiations with the e3+3 ( france , germany , and the united kingdom plus china , russia , and the united kingdom ) are important first steps .
though the latest split and sectarian violence have become more urgent , the risks associated with iran ’ s emergence as a nuclear power should not be underestimated .
further increasing the importance of current negotiations is iran ’ s domestic political dynamic .
by next year ’ s parliamentary election , iran ’ s president hassan rouhani can not bring real economic returns to the iranian people – especially the easing of international sanctions – and hardliners will reassert their dominance over iran ’ s foreign policy .
as a result , the west finally sees rouhani and iranian foreign minister javad zarif as a very enthusiastic – and ostensibly inefficient – negotiator .
perhaps the most important motivation for the e3+3 negotiations lies in removing iran ’ s nuclear status as a prerequisite for the return of the international community .
a rogue state can not play a stabilizing role in the middle east .
this is not to say that negotiators should make the deal at all costs .
if a weak agreement is reached , the lack of adequate verification mechanisms , allowing iran to retain its enrichment capability for weapons development , would do more harm than good .
in addition to stoking israel ’ s security concerns and making it more resistant to the us congress , which has already held doubt , such a pact would strengthen the position of iran ’ s spoiler , making it more difficult to engage in future constructive engagement .
reaching a fair and effective agreement is undoubtedly difficult ; but there is reason to believe that it is possible .
the current round of talks has been one of the two major sticking points of this issue – the arak reactor .
the other key issue is centrifuges .
but alternative solutions , such as those that focus on aggregate control , rather than the number of centrifuges , plus robust monitoring guarantees can help the agreement .
by addressing nuclear issues , western leaders can advance cooperation with iran in other critical areas – starting with security and stability in the middle east .
of course , iran , despite its important importance , is not enough to stop the current carnage .
given the sectarian nature of regional conflicts – and the iranian authorities ’ considerable responsibility on this issue – the engagement with iran must be conducted within a broader framework for regional cooperation , particularly in the gulf states .
because the us and europe either lack interest or lack of money , there is no effect on upheaval in the middle east , so the solution will require at least some countries with strong influence .
but , in pursuit of cooperation with countries like iran , western leaders must remain vigilant and fail to lose sight of their concerns about the disruptive potential of these regimes .
by taking this precepts into mind , the potential benefits of the west ’ s cooperation with iran will be immense .
in the coming weeks , the us and the european union will have an opportunity to take a more stable and secure middle east – an outcome that would benefit the world .
america ’ s strategic blindness
madrid – the indictment of american spy behavior by former us intelligence contractor edward j. snowden has now reached a high level .
questions abound – president barack obama knows what , when , and when the 领导人 leaders talk ; the future of the transatlantic relationship ; and even the meaning of the term “ allies . ”
but the recent firestorm , like the current current diplomatic crisis in the us , reflects a more fundamental question : the lack of strategic vision for us foreign policy .
before the us can establish an overarching , results-oriented framework to connect with the world , it will inevitably take a reactive approach , and we will continue to be the norm this month .
for more than four decades , cold war policies that contain soviet influence have been a strategic framework for america .
while there has always been debate over tactics , and as governments change , the overall approach has not changed , because it is widely supported by republicans and democrats .
of course , the national security strategy does not guarantee the problem , or even to avoid the scourge of the us in vietnam and nicaragua .
nonetheless , in hindsight , containment of us foreign policy has created an order and organization that is now lacking .
the united states , which is complacent about victory , regarded the collapse of the soviet bloc as another manifestation of its exceptionalism , and was caught in a delusion : its cold war success was a strategy .
the subsequent decade was characterized by a decade of scandalous foreign policy , which is not a case in point of view , as well as a broader view of the broader view .
in a uni-polar era , the us can not afford to account for its strategic objectives .
in september 11 , 2001 , the us was shocked by the imposition of a new framework for the historical flood of thought that has remained open to freedom .
unfortunately , there was a serious flawed approach , because the us , with its declared “ war on terror , ” is a strategy , rather than an entity or an ideology .
under obama , the us has begun to move away from this approach .
the problem is that the us has yet to find a meaningful direction .
as in the 1990 ’ s , the us has no organized priority , and the results are similar : the combination of inaction and disharmony .
in the absence of political polarization in the united states , moreover , the absence of a global strategy has left the us a 聚焦点 of a democratic and republican party .
twenty years ago , geopolitical conditions constrained the 回力 of us foreign policy .
today , the us remains the world ’ s most important power , but it is no longer the only power .
america is no longer able to solve its problems directly , though american leadership remains indispensable .
it is better to think about the nature of the problem .
like the rest of us , the us can not escape climate change , pandemics , and terrorism – challenges that will require global cooperation .
but , for the us , the efficacy of multilateralism is purely situational .
ultimately , multilateralism will never be better than a “ good ” bilateral solution – a view that reinforces the ability to weaken , rather than strengthen , effective international action .
in fact , the us is always ready to negotiate the treaty , but few are willing to sign – even less – that has left the us out of the kyoto protocol , banning landmines , and the united nations ’ convention on the law of the sea .
the creativity and support of the training and support presented by formal institutions such as the united nations and the world bank give way to a preference for weak , informal , and ad hoc groups , such as “ g ” groups and “ willing alliances . ”
establishing effective multilateralism requires emphasizing rules and institutions that favor coordination .
the us recently decided to sign the arms trade treaty , which may be a good start – as long as congress gets the bipartisan support needed to ratify it .
but scattered moves in the right direction are not enough .
what really needs is a change in mindset and mentality – a strategy that no longer views multilateralism as a strategy , but as a strategic imperative .
the recent spying scandal is the result of a lack of a different us foreign policy , focused on narrow tactical objectives that focus on the concept of comprehensive and comprehensive thinking .
the result was a transatlantic relationship , with some europeans even asking for negotiations on the proposed transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) .
suspending trade negotiations would be foolish , not only from a regional perspective , but also because the ttip should become a global norm .
the current diplomatic crisis is also an opportunity to use it to ensure that the transatlantic discussion of privacy and surveillance can be conducted on multilateral basis ; taking advantage of this opportunity would be a small development , but a small contribution to the very lack of strategic vision that the past quarter-century has been to be .
europe ’ s juncker revolution
madrid – before being appointed as president of the european commission , jean-claude juncker was denounced as an old-school federalist , who did not benefit from it .
but the new structure that he has brought to the european commission is a radical overhaul of the brussels .
but the importance of individual commissioners is far less important than that of the european commission to shift its focus from expansion and internal market transfers to the trend toward energy and monetary union .
one of the trends is that europeans are increasingly skeptical about integration , in may ’ s european parliament election .
with a new member state backsliding – romania ’ s rule of law , bulgaria ’ s corruption , and hungary ’ s democratic norms under viktor orbán – now focus on the existing member states .
reinforcing this change is turkey ’ s drift toward authoritarianism , which threatens its eu membership .
as for ukraine , the current unity of solidarity – such as the signing of an association agreement – is unlikely to have any significant progress in the foreseeable future .
the eu ’ s enlargement as a primary policy has gone , and the european commission is preparing other important steps .
the upheaval in europe ’ s southern and eastern neighborhood may lead to a long-overdue change in the eu ’ s neighborhood policy .
in addition , europe ’ s leaders should reinvigorate the european economic area , in search of alternative solutions to the wider eu .
another policy area that is less important is internal market – a notable decision , given that it has been the core of the european project since the creation of the eu in 1958 .
the four pillars of the internal market – free movement of goods , services , capital , and human capital – carry out the eu measures , such as foreign policy and judicial and internal affairs , and now will be in new policy areas , from economic and financial affairs to digital agendas .
the shift from internal market transfers to other places is partly due to member governments ’ aversion to more eu-level legislation .
although complaints about the eu ’ s “ bloated ” ( acquis ) are often unfounded , the eu ’ s legislative process is not without shortcomings , exemplified by recent efforts to coordinate efforts .
for example , the european parliament agreed to adopt a revised directive and a new regulation that should be applied to all 28 member states , for example .
but there are more than 20 member states that have been given discretion and interpretation .
the new european commission will try to change this by focusing on rules and supervision rather than creation .
this approach would be carried out by the newly established vice-presidential positions , spearheaded by the chief vice president , aimed at establishing a combination of “ better regulation . ”
to be sure , the liberating regulatory burden is the eu ’ s long-term leitmotif .
although the previous two commissions , led by josé manuel barroso , favor rationalizing , clarifying , and compiling rules , there is little action .
juncker ’ s change , however , may portend a genuine progress on this front and a move toward monetary and energy union .
indeed , the european commission ’ s structure suggests that juncker wants to strengthen its role in guiding european monetary union and related policies .
likewise , the european commission has introduced new vice president responsible for energy affairs , and has put energy in the energy union “ energy union . ”
the absence of progress in the past two commissions is largely due to germany ’ s modernization project , which has shaped its approach to energy security .
moreover , france has been reluctant to build an interconnected european grid , owing to heavy reliance on nuclear energy .
but , given russian behavior in ukraine , eu leaders have begun to rethink this approach .
in this context , the european commission ’ s new structure – not to mention the fact that the new european council president , former polish prime minister donald tusk has long sought the energy union – may well advance this approach .
while it is impossible to know fully the european commission ’ s new structure in early stages , some institutional structures have emerged .
apart from the european council , the commission ’ s departure from legislation will change the role of the european parliament ’ s active legislative agenda in the last five years .
the european parliament has no legislation to implement legislation , so it has no choice but to pivot to oversight .
all of this will determine whether the european project is progressive or stagnant in the coming months and years .
africa beyond ebola
madrid – in the world ’ s fear of death this summer , the spread of the ebola virus dominated discussion of sub-saharan africa ’ s problems and reinvigorated the old image of chaos and despair in africa ’ s new image .
indeed , there is still strong reason for optimism in africa .
the ebola outbreak overshadowed three important events in africa .
on july 1 , the world bank group implemented a major organizational restructuring .
two weeks later , the brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) announced the establishment of new development banks .
in early august , african governments and business leaders gathered in washington , dc , to advance a summit of private investment in africa .
today , this investment is crucial to private net capital flows , which are ten times official .
if this becomes a turning point for africa , rather than another false rebound , this summer must be a starting point in the effort to spur private-sector involvement .
the bank ’ s restructuring is part of a broader plan led by president jim yong kim , who has sought to reassert the world bank as a facilitator of the private sector , rather than primarily aid providers .
from 2009 to 2013 , the world bank ’ s private-sector lending arm , the international finance corporation , has increased 73 % of its investment commitments .
at the same time , the international investment guarantee agency , the world bank ’ s investment guarantee agency for investment in developing countries , has taken a two-pronged approach to expanding the range of activities – expanding the types of projects it supports , and has widened existing conditions to increase coverage .
july ’ s restructuring occurs in the context of these larger moves .
at the heart of the world bank group ’ s core component , the international bank for reconstruction and development , kim has adopted a model of management advisers with expert knowledge and regional coverage .
in order to keep regional experts isolated from one another ’ s bureaucratic “ strongholds , ” the establishment of 14 energy , water , and education organizations in areas such as 14 energy , water , and education has been used to capitalize on the world bank ’ s considerable knowledge and cooperation .
as the world bank has put it in itself , the brics agreed to establish their own banks .
there are many major problems about how the new development bank works , but early indications suggest that infrastructure will be central to the bank ’ s activities , and africa is a key priority .
the world bank estimates that inadequate infrastructure has reduced productivity in africa by about 40 % .
the entry of the new development bank , which has $ 100 billion in initial grant capital – and the world bank ’ s new global infrastructure facility , which has been funded by $ 260 billion since the beginning of last year ’ s launch – could dramatically reduce infrastructure financing .
but it remains to be seen whether the new development bank is still a political union that is still more than a political unity declaration .
even if it does start , the brics lack much more to do with the legitimacy and weight of the development bank ( especially the world bank ) and the weight of experts who have the world ’ s highest level of experts .
finally , the high-level meeting of the 美非 leaders ’ summit , with more than 40 heads of state and more than 40 % of the heads of president barack obama ’ s direct involvement in the summit , has become a popular topic .
american firms and investors clearly know better about africa ’ s potential and a deeper understanding of the diversity of investment climates across the continent .
but , despite the summit ’ s success , its long-term impact remains unclear , especially given uncertainty about the future .
at the moment , it seems impossible to institutionalize the summit .
moreover , the participation of so many heads of state obscures the situation of african business leaders .
the pragmatic relationship that us companies need in deciding whether to invest in investment should have made progress during the summit , but not .
the basis for a good future will require continued commitment and effort , and only by propaganda .
the same is true of the world bank .
even in seamless transition , the world bank faces a difficult internal struggle to overcome entrenched bureaucratic interests and pervasive 厌恶 risks , excessive adherence to processes , and 制度 institutions .
in recent years , africa has emerged as a land of opportunity .
if africa is to become a land of performance , it must aim to promote investment in domestic and foreign capitals .
this will require efforts and commitments ; because a stable international order is increasingly needed to thrive , it is an opportunity that the world can not afford to lose .
europe ’ s iranian mission
madrid – last month , the negotiations between iran and the p5+1 ( the united states , china , france , russia , the united kingdom , and the united kingdom , plus germany ) ended quietly with negotiations between iran and the p5+1 , when the world ’ s eyes turned to crimea and the search for a malaysian airliner flight .
while discussion will continue next week , the outcome is far from certain – and the world ’ s leaders have to focus on it .
this is especially true for europe , where it is vital to unite iran .
indeed , it is europe ’ s the potency of the european sanctions that it finally landed on the negotiating table , and a unified european foreign policy would contribute to “ joint action , ” which would contribute to a comprehensive long-term agreement for six months .
but , when it comes to the plan , we don ’ t see real progress , and last month ’ s talks have failed to achieve any results on key issues such as the 接受 level of iran ’ s uranium enrichment and the heavy-water reactor at arak .
the contrast with the fact that the results of iran ’ s recent announcement of a final agreement between july and the end of the final agreement produced an important question about iran ’ s strategy and objectives – the negotiators must take care of these issues with careful consideration .
the key to success is the background of progress .
iran is a land of contradiction .
in a recent visit by the european council on foreign relations ( ECFR ) , the problem of deep-rooted tradition and rapid transformation is apparent .
in the center of tehran , youth youth are young , with women stepping up on their feet , 头戴 头巾 , 身穿 jackets , 系 pants – highlight the yearning for progress .
60 % of iran ’ s population is born after the 1979 islamic revolution , with more than 40 % of iranians born after the iran-iraq war of the 1980s .
for them , the revolution is history , not the main source of personal value .
the consequences of years of tough economic sanctions are also visible .
while iranian officials have worked hard to reduce the impact of sanctions , inflation is still struggling to control 30 % , and gdp growth is expected to be just 1 % this year .
the combination of young people and a crumbling economy is dangerous , and the regime poses an existential threat to the regime – and the regime knows it .
in this sense , an agreement with the international community to consolidate prosperity is not so urgent for iran ’ s leaders .
moreover , iran ’ s negotiating style is like its capital , both 心力 and 困惑不解 .
after a few months of the koran ’ s taboo on nuclear weapons , iran ’ s negotiators claimed that the underground nuclear facility is at the center of any deal .
the reality is that iran never envisioned abandoning its nuclear breakout capacity .
the goal is not to eliminate this capacity , but rather – specifically , to limit uranium enrichment to 3.5 % of uranium – in order to establish a rigorous verification system .
but even these goals can not be reached .
after all , iranian officials have not expressed their commitment to accepting stringent and verifiable checks .
moreover , iran has managed to separate nuclear negotiations and other broader issues ( such as the ballistic missile program , its support for organizations like hezbollah , and its human-rights record ) .
because the us is unwilling to increase its spoilers in the current situation , these problems are unlikely to be discussed .
this gives iran the strategic bet that the country needs – syria ’ s conflict will create friction between the west and iran ’ s main regional rivals , saudi arabia .
for the staunch supporters of syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s regime , the us-saudi relationship is the key to changing the regional balance of power – especially with western economic sanctions .
to some extent , this hope is reinforced by iran ’ s willingness to regard us president barack obama as an attractive partner in nuclear negotiations .
after all , for obama , a long-term deal with iran is not only a diplomatic achievement , but also his ability to extricate the us from the middle east .
but iran also recognizes the urgency of time .
president barack obama ’ s presidency is coming to an end , with republicans gaining the senate in november ’ s midterm elections , while democrats are increasingly regarded as “ soft to iran . ”
as a result , the us congress should become increasingly hostile to iran ; indeed , the greater the likelihood of a final deal , the greater the likelihood that congress will block it .
against this background , europe has a key role to play .
europe ’ s reputation as “ soft ” in foreign policy has been a cornerstone of the current dialogue , despite iran ’ s reputation as “ soft ” in foreign policy .
likewise , the reason why it has failed to reach an agreement in geneva last november was france ’ s insistence on tight control .
a decade ago , europe was withdrawing from negotiations in the united states because of the pressure from the united states to withdraw from the negotiations – some thought that it boosted former iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’ s power .
today , europe will have a key role to play in driving the process , especially if the us congress blocks a beneficial deal .
indeed , on iran ’ s issues , european unity has enabled it to gain more influence than other important foreign-policy issues .
this should be a model and experience for the future .
a unified goal , the pressure and negotiation that it brings , can make europe , the us , and itself a symbol of real global actors .
forsaken syria
madrid – the centennial of karski ’ s birth has been largely overlooked this year .
but karski ’ s legacy is more important than ever – especially in syria .
as the geneva peace process moves forward – leaving a mountain of physical and 罄竹难书 atrocities – karski ’ s quest for an understanding of the plight of polish jews during world war ii was reflected in syria ’ s desperate spirit .
in 1942 , karski , poland ’ s foreign-born diplomat , traveled to the british report to report the atrocities that were later called the holocaust .
the following year , he embarked on a journey to us president franklin d. roosevelt and other politicians in his own reporting of the horrors that he witnessed .
in both cases , he was met with skepticism and apathy .
indeed , the end of the war in the end of the war brought the slaughter .
but , while nothing can be done with the damage caused by the holocaust , it is reminiscent of karski .
there is little hope for the talks on the geneva talks , so that president bashar al-assad ’ s negotiators and opponents have been treated as a success in the same room ( though not sitting in a single room ) .
even the agreement to allow children and women to leave the city of homs ( assad ’ s opposition stronghold ) is far from the international mediator ’ s goal – and even that little seems to be certain .
instead of allowing the un to help send humanitarian aid to the region ’ s citizens , the government agreed to release women and children on a timeline that is not yet determined , and that men will be left behind by fear of arrest .
moreover , syrians are being displaced , wounded , tortured , and killed in the face of incremental deliberations , owing to slow deliberations about incremental steps .
whatever standards , syria ’ s misery index is striking .
but a year ago , the figure was truly dire : 600,000 deaths , 700,000 refugees , and two million internally displaced people .
if the suffering reaches a point in which the international community is “ enough , ” syria ’ s situation is now breaking out .
the ugly truth is that the world ’ s response to the crisis is not an end to the appalling human suffering , but the geopolitical interests of all participants .
indeed , the conflict in syria is no secret in the case of the saudi conflict with iran , iran , and qatar , the us , and iran , russia , and the us , russia , and the united states , shia and sunni muslims , shia and sunni muslims , and moderate and extremists .
from a us perspective , syria is not a strategically critical piece of strategy .
president barack obama ’ s administration has long focused on domestic issues , and the american public has been wary of involvement abroad .
unless the conflict in syria suddenly changes and threaten america ’ s core interests , neither the us nor the us can expect direct intervention in syria .
guilt ’ s sense of action alone is not enough .
even the united kingdom and france – which are not shy about threatening military action against assad ’ s regime – are also taking precedence over the possibility of being alone .
on the contrary , the world is showing a purely outrage about the unspeakable images of atrocities – torture of torture or execution by the opposition .
a series of statements , half-measures , and clumsy action did not improve the situation – even in some cases , even worse .
consider the hollow call of obama ’ s call for assad to “ step aside ” – and to date back to the early 2012 promises of the syrian opposition – to provide 致命性 assistance to syrian opposition – until obama ’ s promise last year , but only to deliver .
the huge gap between rhetoric and action has left a vacuum ; saudi arabia , qatar , and private donors have subsequently filled the vacuum by supporting extremist forces , and undercutting the forces of moderation while weakening their forces .
but obama ’ s most notorious example of america ’ s policy paralysis , announced in 2012 , is the most egregious example of us policy paralysis .
he eventually failed to deliver on his promises to make assad more daring and to some extent regain legitimacy .
it remains to be seen whether geneva ii will follow this pattern .
the stakes have already been high , because all sides are consolidating their own position on the negotiating table by tightening violence .
this is not the case for withdrawing the fiasco represented by the withdrawal of iran , and to address syria ’ s problems effectively .
in any case , the incremental nature of the negotiations obscures the urgency of the situation .
in the attention of regime change , the interim government , and negotiators ’ concerns , it is possible to ignore the already unsustainable humanitarian situation .
people can play a critical role in this situation .
but , like its leaders , citizens have been reticent to act .
indeed , opinion polls show that , despite near-universal perception about the situation , there is little popular support for syria .
but restless is useless ; ordinary people must assume responsibility for ending the tragedy , forcing their leaders to act .
it has been 70 years since karski presented the world report to the world .
during this period , we created the united nations , adopted the universal declaration of human rights , and endlessly discussed the government ’ s “ responsibility to protect ” people , but it is likely that the tragedy in syria has been growing .
how many times have we vowed to “ never allow such tragedies to happen ” in order to do so again ?
the nation of television
new york – the past half-century has been the age of electronic mass media .
now , a series of new 视频工具 is joining television : dvds , computers , 游戏机 , smartphones , and so forth .
but there is also a growing body of evidence that the proliferation of these media will have untold environmental consequences .
the us has brought the world into the tv age , and the impact of the resulting impact could be reflected in the long history of the us as well as america ’ s 哈兰 .
in 1950 , there was less than 8 % of american households with a television ; by 1960 , 90 % of american households had a television .
by contrast , the rest of the world will spend more than it has for decades to reach the same level in the us , while the poorest countries have yet to reach .
although the statistics are slightly somewhat and incomplete , the data show that americans are not just the largest 电视迷 , but still are .
the most powerful evidence suggests that americans spend more than five hours per day on average – a staggering number of hours before watching hours before watching television , a staggering figure .
other countries have spent much less time watching television .
in scandinavia , for example , the time spent on watching tv is about half the us .
for the rest of the world , the effect on the us society ’ s impact on american society is deeply troubling and troubling , though it is now too late .
for starters , heavy tv viewing is a matter of pleasure .
many surveys show that watching tv is like drug addiction , a short-lived pleasure is only chronic pain and remorse .
they would say that if they could be reconstituted , they would prefer less television .
moreover , obsession with television leads to social fragmentation .
time spent on community socialization is now being used alone .
robert 普特 , a us study of declining research and decline , finds that tv programming is central to the decline of the “ social capital ” – that is , the trust of community cohesion .
now the us has less trust than they did for each other .
there are , of course , other factors contributing to social fragmentation , but the social atomization promoted by tv promotion is an important reason to ignore .
there is no doubt that heavy tv viewing is bad for individuals ’ physical and mental health .
the us is the world ’ s most polluted country , with roughly two-thirds of the world ’ s population now overweight .
there are , of course , many reasons for the physical body ’ s too many causes , including cheap , unhealthy fried foods , but it is also an important reason for long queues .
at the same time , the mentally important effect is equally important .
socially , television and related media are the most mobile tool of corporate advertising and propaganda .
the us television station has almost all of its private hands , and tv owners earn money through continuous stream of advertising .
effective advertising , appealing to unconscious impulses – often related to food , sex , and identity – has driven consumers to buy products that are not worth much of their own or society .
there are similar situations in politics .
at the moment , american politicians are branded as brands of goods , such as cereal breakfast .
anybody – and any thinking – can sell anyone with a bright ribbon and a catchy ribbon .
in the us , tv stations need to take power in power , and the help of tv stations is to be found .
even war can be rolled out as a new product .
the bush administration took advantage of the 原因 , fast-paced , and 图片 style to sell iraq ’ s war – saddam hussein ’ s saddam hussein had the so-called weapons of mass destruction .
then the war began with the so-called “ shock and fear ” bombing of baghdad – an effort designed to ensure popular support for the us invasion of iraq .
many neuroscientists believe that tv programming has the psychological impact on mental health far beyond the addiction , stoking consumerism , and the disappearance of political propaganda .
perhaps television is reconstructing the 沉迷 brain ’ s brains and letting them lose cognitive skills .
the us will have recently warned that tv programming harms young children ’ s brain development , and called for parents to leave their children from television and similar media .
a recent survey by the us media common sense of common sense reveals a seemingly contradictory , but well understood , phenomenon .
today , children in poor households in the united states are more tv viewing than children in wealthy households , and their homes will be in a television .
when a commodity ’ s consumption rises , economists call it a “ second-best ” good .
there is no denying that , as a provider of information , education , entertainment , entertainment , and even political awareness are significant .
but excessive use of mass media would be harmful , and it is difficult to avoid it .
at the very least , we can minimize those damage .
the world ’ s effective approach includes limiting television propaganda , especially for young children ; and public tv networks like the bbc are free to express political campaigns for political campaigns in a restricted , 电视 television time .
of course , the best defense is our self-control .
every day , we can get less tv watching , spend more time reading , exchange , and rebuilding the foundation of personal health and social trust .
anatomy of a crisis
berkeley – getting out of our current financial mess requires understanding how we are caught in .
the fundamental reason , according to people like john mccain , is greed and corruption on wall street .
while i do not deny the existence of such a dynamic , i insist that the crisis is rooted in key policy decisions in the past few decades .
in the us , there are two key decisions .
the first is deregulation of payments to brokers in the 1970 ’ s ; the second is the repeal of glass-steagall in the 1990 ’ s , when the glass-steagall act was imposed on commercial banks and investment banks .
in the time of fixed commissions , investment banks can survive by recording stock transactions .
deregulation of fixed commissions means that competition and profits are reduced , while glass-steagall removed the other traditional business areas of commercial banks .
in response , investment banks have penetrated new business areas like creating and issuing complex derivative securities .
they borrow and run to keep their profitability at service .
this triggered the first cause of the crisis : the creation of securitization and the distribution of leverage .
it is important to note that these are unintended consequences of the fundamental policy decision .
at the same time , the removal of regulations in other ways allows small investors to transact stocks at lower cost , making their economies better off .
but the fact that the investment banks , which are driven by changes in these policies , particularly in the form of changes in these policies , is entirely outside the regulatory networks , is a recipe for disaster .
conglomerates enable financial institutions to diversify their operations , with commercial banks merging investment banks to finance their operations , rather than 变幻无常 money markets .
this pattern has proved its life in several centuries in europe , even if it is now buying merrill lynch in us banks .
but conglomeratization takes time .
in the short run , merrill lynch , like other investment banks , was allowed to be permitted .
it remains outside the purview of regulation .
as a stand-alone entity , it is vulnerable to market volatility .
a crisis that would threaten the entire financial system is needed to accelerate the inevitable conglomeratization .
another factor in the crisis is a series of policies that generate global imbalances .
the bush administration tax cuts , the fed cut interest rates to respond to the 2001 recession .
meanwhile , financial innovation makes credit cheaper and more accessible to people .
of course , this is the case for subprime mortgages in another guise .
the result of these policies is that the increase in us spending and the standard household saving rate is negative .
equally important , the rise of china after the 1997-1998 financial crisis and the decline in investment in asia .
with china ’ s saving rate reaching nearly 50 % of its gnp , all of this must be spent .
many of these money entered us treasury securities and bonds that became fannie mae ’ s bonds .
this has contributed to the us dollar ’ s borrowing costs and reduced borrowing costs for households in the us , encouraging them to live in a life that they can not achieve ; that creates a dynamic market for fannie mae and freddie mac .
again , these are not entirely policy mistakes .
lifting a billion chinese out of poverty may be the most important event in our lifetimes .
the fact is that the us federal reserve ’ s rapid response in 2001 prevented the deterioration of the recession .
but , with the consequences of the plan , the us regulators failed to tighten capital and lending standards , which ignited a massive credit boom .
china ’ s failure to act quickly to encourage more domestic spending commensurate with its higher income would fuel the boom .
now , bloated financial sectors are being forced to retrench .
some of these outcomes , like the marriage of us banks and merrill lynch , are happier than others , such as the bankruptcy of lehman brothers .
but , either way , the financial sector will shrink .
foreign central banks are suffering capital losses from their unthinking investments .
when they took over us treasury and agency securities , capital flows to the us would diminish .
the us current-account deficit and the asian surplus will be reduced .
american households will have to start saving again .
one anomaly is that the dollar has strengthened in recent weeks .
a stronger dollar reflects the knee-jerk response of investors rushing into us treasuries as a safe haven .
it is worth remembering that the same thing happened when the sub-prime crisis erupted in august 2007 .
but , once investors recognize the extent of the us financial problem , the inflow of funds into us treasuries reduces the dollar , and the dollar will continue to fall .
now , when investors recall the extent of america ’ s financial problems , we will see the dollar falling again .
emphasizing greed and corruption is the root cause of the crisis .
we will not change human nature .
we can not make investors less greedy .
but emphasizing policy decisions offers a more positive outlook .
the results are not always possible .
policy mistakes are not always avoidable .
the policy mistakes , however , are at least correct . but , above all , there is a deeper understanding of the underlying causes .
anatomy of the financial crisis
new york – the united states is currently experiencing a vicious circle , and may affect the global economy .
the severe credit crunch triggered by the us economic crisis has fueled a recession in the us , and a growing recession is triggering greater losses in financial markets , undermining the broader economy .
with huge credit and asset bubbles collapsing , us financial markets are facing serious systemic risks .
the question now is not simply sub-prime mortgages , but also a “ sub-prime ” financial system .
the decline in the housing market is the worst in history in america and continuing to deteriorate every day , leading to a decline in real estate prices over 20 % , leaving millions of americans losing their homes .
defaults on debt , default , and foreclosures are moving from sub-prime to 近优 and good mortgages .
the losses associated with 贷款 investment vehicles , such as collateralized credit derivatives ( cdos ) , would total more than $ 400 billion .
moreover , commercial real estate has begun to follow a persistent decline in residential real estate .
after all , who wants to build offices , shops , and shopping malls across the 空旷 cities of the american west ?
in addition to the decline in the real estate market , a larger bubble in consumer credit is bursting : as the us economy moves into recession , the phenomenon of credit cards , auto loans , and student loans is rising sharply .
given that private consumption accounts for more than 70 % of total us demand , cutbacks in real estate consumption will compound the recession .
in these financial risks , we can add the bonds that bond insurers provide to many of the risky securitization products that are risky for cdos .
the most likely decline in these insurers ’ credit ratings will likely force banks and financial institutions that hold these risky assets to be sterilized , and thus cost the financial system more than $ 150 billion in losses .
then there is the larger losses that banks and other financial institutions have suffered in financing reckless leveraged purchases .
as the recession continues to deteriorate , many of the outstanding debt , as well as the companies that have not purchased enough liquidity , can not repay their loans as much as profits or losses .
in these circumstances , the recession would lead to a sharp increase in the number of firms that do not live up to debt , which has been very low in the last two years , averaging 0.6 % per year , compared to an all-time low of 3.8 % .
in typical recessions , the ratio of firms that do not complied with debt could rise to 10-15 % , so that institutions that hold risky corporate bonds face huge losses .
if that happens , some companies that sell such insurance would most likely fail , so that the institutions that are buying them face further losses , because they have no capacity to pay .
in addition to all of this , the financial system of non-bank financial institutions faces a shadow , and , like banks , borrowed in short and illiquid assets , and to invest in long-term and illiquid assets .
such a shadow system includes structural investment vehicles ( SIVs ) , pipelines , and money-market funds for themselves , money markets , hedge funds , hedge funds , and investment banks .
like banks , all of these financial institutions face the risk of liquidity or rollover risk , and they will collapse if their creditors fail to rollover their short-term credit lines .
but , unlike banks , they have offered no safety net as a lender of last resort .
with the current recession deepening , stock markets in the us and around the world are beginning to fall : in a typical us recession , the standard & poor ’ s 500 index will decline by 28 % as corporate revenues and profits fall .
the stock market ’ s losses would have a double effect : they reduce household wealth , thereby reducing their consumption , while causing investors to borrow in stocks , causing margin calls and asset fire sales .
these are likely to lead to a broader risk of a broader asset market in many equity and credit markets that would be forced to sell illiquid assets in illiquid markets , thereby reducing asset prices to below their fundamental value .
the ensuing losses would exacerbate the financial crisis and economic contraction .
in fact , if all of the losses in financial markets were combined , the total would be $ 1 trillion .
tighter credit ratings will further impede the ability of households and companies to borrow , consume , invest , and sustain economic growth .
the risk that a systemic financial crisis will trigger a more pronounced us and global recession has become increasingly likely .
anatomy of the revolution
the current confrontation between iran ’ s rulers and citizens , in fact , stems from a head-on collision between two contradictory approaches .
in these years , the iranian public has been increasingly liberalizing , while government power moved from conservative pragmatists to a more belligerent islamic fundamentalists , with calls to repeal the election ’ s call for the election , with the most important elements of the “ fighting cleric ” ( the “ combat cleric ” ) , the most important of the reformist and pragmatic group .
thirty years after the islamic revolution , iranians have clearly become more liberal , and their attitudes toward religion are increasingly open .
two of the more than 2,500 iranians who carried out 2,500 iranians in 2000 and 2005 clearly reveal this trend .
just five years on , the proportion of respondents who “ strongly agreed ” was the best form of government organization , from 20 % to 31 % .
similarly , on a variety of issues concerning gender equality – including leaders ’ gender , the right to equal access to higher education , and the 妻子 code – the statistics are moving toward a better trend .
when the share of people who think love is a basis for marriage , it increased from just 49 % to 69 % , and it fell from 41 % to 24 % .
in 2005 , the share of people who considered themselves “ first , ” rather than “ first , muslims , ” was significantly higher than in 2000 .
in fact , it is not hard to understand this trend .
liberals are more attractive to iranians when they are forced to accept a single religious narrative .
but when this trend is reflected in a broader political life in iran , a movement against militant fundamentalism emerged as a result of regime power .
reform-minded leaders must , of course , take some responsibility for this change .
instead of viewing authoritarianism as a bulwark against theocratic democracy and opposing it , the supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , wants to understand the value of reform .
but khamenei clearly has no interest in reforming the reform movement , and it has been clear that the reform movement has been doing well .
since mohammad khatami – a politician who was a reformist – since 1997 , after eight years of iranian president mohammad khatami , khamenei was convinced that only a fundamentalist fundamentalist party , like the current president , mahmoud ahmadinejad , can preserve his authority .
in this regard , khamenei ’ s ideas and the late shah , the late shah , have been named , since 1965 , as prime minister , as prime minister , until the shah was overthrown in 1979 .
his populist rhetoric of religious fundamentalism has alienated a large number of conservative clerics and their supporters .
many members of this group respect private ownership , while ahmadinejad ’ s talk of redistributing wealth is natural to their appetites .
more uncomfortable is ahmadinejad ’ s conviction that “ 伊玛目 imams ” are about to come to the fore , and the myth is that the world is coming to the fore .
and ahmadinejad ’ s general speech will be heard before his speech , and prayers for the mahdi will soon return .
for the islamic shia hierarchy , the traditional savior is being explained by the traditional 救世主 of the future , and ahmadinejad ’ s 的 messianic rhetoric is difficult .
the mullahs often associate themselves with those who claim to be in touch with “ 遁世 imams ” – if they are not infidels – as unorthodox .
and some ayatollah ayatollahs have argued that the rhetoric of messianic rhetoric is very inappropriate for a president , and that , for all the reasons , it is a leader .
and these facts explain why a conservative political group like the “ combatants ” would not accept ahmadinejad ’ s candidacy .
on the other hand , after the supreme leader insists that the ahmadinejad victory , millions of iranians ’ public protests against khamenei immediately dragged the country into a political crisis .
the footage of beating protesters around the world has brought the regime ’ s religious credibility seriously .
in order to be a way out of the road , the supreme leader publicly stated that the election dispute should not be resolved through street protests , but through legal means .
given that he is a ruling who has been rigged by the election , this statement seems more like a 缓兵之计 , with time to clean up the street protesters , in both the body and the spirit of the spirit , and take steps to isolate the opposition leader , mousavi , who had been predicted to win .
even so , khamenei ’ s approach to the law has fueled many of his attempts not to challenge his authority directly , but to mousavi ’ s conservative pragmatists .
mousavi must tread carefully with his legal actions , much less give the trust granted to most iranians .
he must insist on two principled demands : the repeal of the election results , and the creation of a neutral committee to adjudicate the government ’ s violations of the law .
if mousavi succeeds in persuading khamenei to accept his position , the supreme leader ’ s hold on power will be shaken .
if khamenei quickly 攫紧 power , he will not be able to reach the presidency , but he will continue to carry the expectations of most iranians who disagree with the government .
and the evolution of the moment will depend on mousavi ’ s perseverance .
anatomy of thatcherism
london – thirty years ago this month , margaret thatcher ’ s revolution in the united kingdom was followed by a 革命 revolution , as was the case in the united kingdom .
the central attribute of this theory is to substitute for government intervention , which , three decades later , is in a depression , and some blame the global crisis for several reasons .
indeed , even if not the left , the anglo-american model of capitalism has failed .
that model should be held accountable for a full-blown financial meltdown .
after three decades of reflection , we should judge what should be preserved in the thatcher revolution , which should be revised to amend , so that the future economy recovers .
for the most part , the less efficient the market for market regulation and dynamism would be for the lack of excessive government intervention .
according to the 撒切尔 , the impact of the government ’ s mistakes was far more devastating than the consequences of market failure .
history will be bad .
the data show that , between 1950 and 1973 , the government ’ s intervention in a market economy was very successful , during which the global economy was not depressed , and the growth rate of global gdp ( per capita gdp ) was better than that of previous and subsequent history .
some might argue that , if the government ’ s intervention was less , the economy would be better off .
we can only compare different policies in the past .
the conclusion we draw is that market economies , together with government regulations , are better informed by market economies and less government regulation .
then , in the 1970 ’ s , the economy was in crisis , with the most obvious symptom of “ stagflation ” – inflation and high unemployment in parallel .
it is , therefore , problematic to use keynesian theory of economic growth .
moreover , the government ’ s spending is growing , and the union ’ s 势力 policies have begun to fail , and firms ’ expectations for profits began to decline .
many people have found that governments can no longer function effectively , and the solution is only two : either further regulation or the content of abandoning some regulation .
thatcherism was clearly an alternative to state socialism .
nigel lawson was thatcher ’ s second chancellor of the exchequer , or finance minister .
as a result , the policies adopted at the time were called “ lawson principles , ” a policy launched in 1984 , a policy that has been widely used by governments and central banks .
“ to fix inflation , ” lawson said , “ should be the scope of macroeconomic policy .
and the problem of economic growth and job creation is the scope of microeconomic policies . ”
the proposal overturned the prevailing orthodoxy that the aim of macroeconomic policy was to ensure full employment , and to control inflation .
despite the introduction of the “ supply side ” of the thatcher government at the time , the unemployment rate reached 7.4 % in the 1980 ’ s and is still above 1.6 % in the 1950s and 1960s .
what is the purpose of controlling inflation ?
the 1980 ’ s inflation rate had peaked , despite the deflationary pressure from low-wage competition from asia , which in 1980 and the 1980 ’ s from 1980 to 2007 , and the 1980 ’ s .
and , in view of this , controlling inflation did not prevent the emergence of subsequent asset bubbles , eventually leading to depression .
nor did the policies of thatcher address the main problem – how to reduce the share of government spending in national income .
at the time , the policy was to say that policies prevented further increases in government spending .
now that government spending has increased as much as 10 % of gdp , the fiscal deficit has reached record highs for peacetime .
in the world ’ s lower regulatory fashion , thatcher ’ s revolution led to a 铜臭味 revolution , with no increase in wealth – except for the wealthy .
if global gdp growth were to rise to the level of growth between 1950 and 2007 , global per capita gdp will be 20 % higher than it is now – and it is not excluded from china ’ s growth rate over the past 20 years .
thanks to the idea that thatcherism promoted , the morality of western societies began to fall .
in addition to these three shortcomings , thatcherism brought three benefits to us .
the first is privatization .
by privatizing most state-owned enterprises , thatcher ’ s revolution eliminated state socialism .
the former communist countries could also learn from the british privatization movement , which can be transformed from the ideas and tactics of the transition to a 计划 program of economic system .
the same idea could , of course , be used in the current fashion of “ nationalization . ”
thatcherism ’ s second great success was to weaken unions ’ power .
in the 1970 ’ s , labor unions , which serve as a defender of the vulnerable , became a resistance to economic development , with social conservatism .
finally , thatcherism ended fixing prices and the mandatory system of wages , ending the government ’ s tripartite games between governments , employers , and unions .
if this is allowed to happen , fascism and communism will emerge , and they will ultimately destroy not just economic , but political and freedom .
political pendulums sometimes overshoot .
in re-establishing the 形态 economy , we should be careful not to repeat the failed policies of the past .
as long as the central government is able to maintain a full and stable employment environment , keynes ’ s ideas , most of which should not be disrupted , should be left free .
building a proper dividing line between government intervention and free markets is the main task we face today .
the autumn of the abyss ?
berlin – in the months ahead , several serious regional and political crises will gather into a great watershed , sparking a global upheaval .
from this summer ’ s perspective , a perilous fall is looming .
in the middle east , drums are louder than ever .
no one can predict where egypt ’ s sunni islamist president and parliamentary majority will lead the country .
but one thing is clear : sunni islamists are decisively changing the region ’ s political politics .
this regional reorientation is not necessarily anti-western , but once israel or the us launch military strikes against iran , the consequences will be so .
meanwhile , civil wars and humanitarian disasters are raging in syria .
no doubt , president bashar al-assad ’ s regime will collapse , but it is determined to do so .
different ethnic and religious groups would also be a predictable outcome .
in fact , a solution to the bosnian problem must be considered , and once the syrian government loses control over its chemical weapons , it would immediately face a threat to military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
moreover , syria ’ s civil war has become a strategic proxy for all sides in the region , with iran on the other side , and saudi arabia , qatar , turkey , and the us .
staying on the sidelines of the arab alliance , israel has watched its developments carefully .
in iran , the country has shown that syria is an indispensable ally , and is determined to prevent regime change through every means .
does this mean that hezbollah ’ s militias in neighboring lebanon will directly engage in syria ’ s civil war ?
will this intervention revive the longstanding civil war in lebanon over the 1970s ?
will a new arab-israeli war threaten the middle east ?
and , as the kurds in syria and beyond become increasingly assertive , turkey ’ s kurds have become increasingly unstable and 一直 turkey .
meanwhile , regional struggles in syria are becoming increasingly entangled with another major source of war – iran ’ s nuclear program .
in fact , with the exception of syria , israel and iran have become increasingly 刺耳 on the program .
both sides have maneuvered themselves into a dead-end .
if iran caved in , and agreed to a sustainable diplomatic solution , the regime will lose face on a key domestic issue , jeopardizing its legitimacy and survival .
in the regime ’ s view , the results of the 1979 islamic revolution were at stake .
all of this is reflected in the iranian regime ’ s desire to succeed – more than ever – in its nuclear program .
israel ’ s government has also thrown itself into domestic policy circles .
prime minister binyamin netanyahu and defense minister ehud barak can not accept a nuclear-armed iran .
rather than fear iran ’ s nuclear attack on israel , they fear a regional nuclear arms race and a dramatic change in the power of israel .
from their perspective , israel must either persuade the us to attack iran and its nuclear facilities , or to carry out the maximum risk to use its troops .
both sides have significantly reduced their options , thereby limiting the possibility of diplomatic compromise .
this means that both sides are no longer thinking about the consequences of their actions .
talk of “ military options , ” is the air strike .
but when advocates talk about limited “ surgical ” , they are actually talking about two wars : a 战争 war in the us and israel , and another asymmetric war in iran and its allies .
if this “ military option ” fails ?
if iran becomes a nuclear power , the region ’ s democratic movement is swept away by an anti-western islamist force , which has become stronger and more so ?
iran certainly does not have to think about its position as a logical conclusion .
what if the costs of regional isolation and the un ’ s draconian sanctions are to be carried out in the foreseeable future ?
what if it triggers a regional nuclear arms race ?
the persian gulf remains the world ’ s gas station , where the war will affect oil exports for some time , resulting in a sharp rise in energy prices and a severe blow to the global economy that is teetering on the brink of recession .
china is already in economic trouble and will suffer the most from the entire east asia .
with the us economy weakening and the presidential election approaching , america ’ s leadership capacity will be severely reduced .
and a weakened europe can cope with the oil crisis , stemming from asymmetric warfare and global security shocks caused by asymmetric warfare , causing exports to fall further .
人常 人常 say , “ think the consequences ! ”
( Respice ! ) .
leaders everywhere need to keep this timeless wisdom alive .
this is all the more true for europeans .
it would be absurd if we had to suffer another real disaster to understand the meaning of european integration .
nato ’ s new frontier
brussels – this week , an american ship sailed into a spanish naval base .
the new 母港 罗塔港 , the uss donald cook , arrived in the country ’ s new 母港 罗塔港 , a 母港 弹道导弹 defense defense system for the first time in the united states , where the us navy is in place .
唐纳德 cook , a 美舰 of 1,200 workers and sailors , will be one of four us navy destroyers that play a central role in nato ’ s missile-defense system .
there are also many other tasks , including maritime security operations , bilateral and multilateral training exercises , and deployment of nato operations ( including the permanent nato maritime organization ) .
the arrival of the uss donald cook marks a step forward in europe ’ s security and transatlantic cooperation .
since november 2010 , the united states and europe have steadily moved forward , with nato at the time of the lisbon summit on the lisbon summit to protect all nato citizens , territory , and military forces .
in april 2012 , nato announced its phased performance at the chicago summit , and was seen as a key step in the project ’ s implementation .
achieving full capability is expected in the coming years .
the purpose of nato ’ s missile-defense system is to defend europe in the event of real threats .
it is at least 30 times that the world has a ballistic missile or is trying to master the technology .
the knowledge needed to create a ballistic missile is increasingly being held by a growing number of countries , and the range of missiles in some parts of the euro-atlantic region is already in place .
the uss donald cook and the three other us destroyers have advanced 传感 and interceptors that can detect and shoot down ballistic missiles targeting europe .
other important components of the future missile defense system will include more radars , sensors , and interceptors – and more ships .
as it stands , thanks to the phased adaptive approach to missile defense in the us , nato can already rely on turkey ’ s powerful radar equipment .
already , romania has begun to build a land-based interceptor and radar site .
poland has announced its own air defense and missile-defense capabilities .
the netherlands is 为 four radar frigates , and has already contributed to the missile defense system .
germany has taken a similar step .
the netherlands , germany , and the us have already deployed patriot missiles in nato ’ s eastern border to help defend and protect turkey from possible missile attacks in syria .
at the same time , spain has allowed four us navy destroyers to be important not only for nato ’ s missile defense , but also to ensure that the entire mediterranean region is secure .
to connect all of these assets together , nato has built and is expanding a technologically advanced command-and-control system based on 德国 air base in germany .
the system already connects satellites , radars , and interceptors to defend against missile attacks , which will become more complex and flexible in the coming years .
this makes nato unique : it is the only multilateral organization capable of integrating the world ’ s most sophisticated countries into effective overall .
most important , such deployments have promoted transatlantic cooperation , because the ships represent far more than military capabilities .
each is a memo for america ’ s commitment to protecting europe ’ s security .
at the same time , nato ’ s missile defense shows that european allies ’ security commitments in the area of missile defense are in place .
i call for all allies to think hard about what can be done to secure defense systems that protect the entire european security .
missile defense heralds a new form of cooperation , one that responds to new threats .
once we build tanks along the border zone , we can now build a complex , complex , and 空 system that requires many allies to contribute a range of high-tech products .
nato ’ s missile-defense system embodies the transatlantic teamwork of the twenty-first century .
the antarctic point of return
potsdam – recent satellite observations confirm the discovery of two separate computer simulations : the west antarctic ice sheet ’ s ice sheet has become unstoppable .
the planet is now in a new era of irreversible consequences for climate change .
the only question now is whether we can prevent similar situations elsewhere .
the higher the global temperature , the greater the risk of antarctica ’ s rest , and the greater the risk that the antarctic basin is now at risk of a similar threat to the west ’ s surface , or even the 更胜一筹 basin .
we can not reasonably predict the impact of some human activities in advance , centuries , and even millennia .
the impact of nuclear waste is only one ; global warming caused by burning fossil fuels by burning greenhouse gases is another possible impact .
indeed , the recently released intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) reports that the level of sea-level “ almost no doubt ” will continue to rise in the next couple or even centuries .
moreover , the more carbon emissions are emitted , the greater the sea-level rise .
but this is not in antarctica ’ s latest situation .
the west antarctic ice sheet suddenly “ crossed the tipping point ” into a new state of affairs , and it has not been able to anticipate incremental changes in global warming .
a small fraction of the 融冰 on the maritime sea has pushed the horizon to a 掩盖 hill , and now is in a state of “ decline . ”
simply put , a dramatic change in external temperatures will be sufficient to jump-start the internal stress mechanism , and that even if humans wanted to stop it , they will be difficult to stop .
whether the outcome of human activity is the result of human activity is not yet clear – but not a similar change in the new era of the planet ’ s energy balance .
but that is not the point .
what matters is that we must recognize that the earth ’ s climate system has a huge component – for example , west antarctica ’ s 三千万 ice sheet – that can break the balance .
this is not just theoretical risk .
the same conclusion has been observed and the computer simulations that the west ’ s vast 阿蒙森 sea ice sheet has already begun irreversibly melting , and any factor that has since failed to prevent the entire basin from melting is no longer possible .
the west antarctic ice sheet has been on the back burner .
so we must now focus on similar terrain elsewhere .
if the “ 冰塞 ” melting near the coast of vilks or the tip of the iceberg becomes iceberg , the basin ’ s huge 储水量 will eventually flow into the ocean .
while no one knows what would undermine the stability of vilks ’ basin , we can certainly increase the risk of global warming caused by greenhouse-gas emissions .
the fact that sea levels will continue to rise is clear .
but we can still determine how fast and speed the sea levels will rise by controlling our global warming .
climate change is humankind , so the good news is that humans can curb climate change by cutting greenhouse-gas emissions .
while west antarctica ’ s west ice sheet is bound to fail , we can still protect the marine ice sheet in antarctica .
that means deciding how to respond sooner rather than later .
the current response could further threaten the stability of the antarctic ice sheet ; it is our best and last hope that the world will embark on new energy sources .
reviving ukraine ’ s economy
washington , dc – ukraine has suddenly moved to democracy .
following former president viktor yanukovych ’ s massive bloodshed , many of his members ’ mps turned to the opposition , creating another majority .
in order to consolidate its regime , in order to consolidate its regime , they will have to act quickly – and accept some degree of international assistance – to restructure the country ’ s crisis-torn economy .
ukraine faces three economic problems .
last year , ukraine ’ s current-account deficit amounted to about 8.3 % of gdp , leading to a reduction in its foreign-exchange reserves and only two months of imports .
second , public finances are also unsustainable , with national fiscal deficits running at 8 % of gdp and higher interest rates on government bonds .
third , the country has experienced a recession of five consecutive quarters since 2012 .
these are precisely the consequences of yanukovych ’ s economic policies , which only one purpose : for the president and his family cronies .
over the last four years , ukraine ’ s leaders have been paying unprecedented sums of money , estimating that the yanukovych family has amassed $ 12 billion in wealth .
the new government will need international assistance if it is to close some of its hole .
with yanukovych ’ s ouster , the regime ’ s blackmail of ukrainian firms should be increased , allowing the economy to recover .
indeed , ukraine ’ s economy achieved 3.3 % growth in the fourth quarter of 2013 , owing to the protests of the president ’ s cronies .
but much can and must be done to act quickly , because ukraine ’ s coffers are running dry .
first , the new parliamentary majority needs to appoint a new government and launch a new economic-policy agenda .
at the same time , a new central banker should be appointed , and his top priority is to float the exchange rate .
this would trigger a 10 % devaluation of ukraine ’ s currency , the hryvnia , and thus contain a recent downward trend in exchange rates , eliminating the current-account deficit , and reducing ukraine ’ s high interest rates .
once the new government was created , the international monetary fund should send an immediate delegation to ukraine .
within two weeks , the delegation will be accompanied by a new , financial stabilization policy .
the imf should be able to make a first big disbursement in late march .
the imf could lend to ukraine $ 120 billion for a year of stability , and the eu would be able to make $ 3-5 billion to the imf ’ s share of its payments facility with the imf .
these two sources alone could pay a large share of the $ 35 billion of external financing that ukrainian proxy finance minister 尤里 柯 has proposed for two years .
moreover , the imf ’ s lending rate is lower than that of yanukovych ’ s government ( and is unlikely to continue ) , and maturities are longer .
and the conditions for the imf would help ukraine to remove yanukovych ’ s venal policies .
for starters , ukraine must drastically cut its fiscal deficit , while considering its large tax revenues , which can be combined with spending cuts and freezes .
massive industrial subsidies – for example , for the coal industry – must be canceled without and only enriching yanukovych ’ s supporters .
likewise , gas prices must be liberalized in order to keep those regulators from reaping the rewards .
what is being bailed out is poor consumers , not producers .
likewise , the imf will insist that the ukrainian government re-impose competitive tenders .
since 2010 , orderly public procurement has been stopped , with yanukovych ’ s direct government contracts to be twice as high as market prices and colleagues .
of course , sales of state-owned enterprises to loyalists – often at the lowest price – must end .
another source of corruption is a tax cut for export tax on exporters , where top tax officials receive fees .
stopping such behavior would stimulate exports .
moreover , ukraine should reintroduce the simplified tax code that yanukovych abolished .
ukraine also needs to work with the eu .
within a week , the new government will meet the conditions for a long-term association agreement with the eu , and that should be the eu ’ s agenda in march .
the parliament has arranged for a new election , and former prime minister yuliya tymoshenko has released from prison .
the eu ’ s last condition – legislation that reform prosecutor ’ s office – will soon be realized .
the eu ’ s association agreement with ukraine would greatly benefit ukraine .
it amounts to a comprehensive reform program for the ukrainian state apparatus , including its law-enforcement agencies .
sixty countries across the eu have already agreed on the necessary reforms with their ukrainian counterparts .
the agreement also includes a deep and comprehensive free-trade area that opened the vast european market to ukrainian exporters – and thus to ukraine to attract more foreign direct investment .
this would also help to protect the country from russia ’ s possible trade sanctions .
here , too , foreign policy will play an important role .
the us and the eu need to persuade russian president vladimir putin to reach an understanding of the new ukraine ’ s leader , vladimir putin , rather than by threatening to impose sanctions on him .
peaceful coexistence , not bilateral tension , can maximize two national interests .
free flows nile
new delhi – in the dark days of the day , with the rise of protest activity , no one can imagine the end of egypt ’ s revolution so suddenly that it is less than a short sign of a short term .
“ president hosni mubarak ’ s president , ” 话音 甫 , falls on his head , with a time when a 时代 victory was restored , and the old “ world of the world has buried in the belief that the world ’ s 角色 role is not the same thing as the state . ”
the news from cairo may not be encouraging , but we never forget that egypt has taken important steps , a step that is important to all arabs .
after all , egypt is the heart , brain , and nerve center of the arab world .
yes , egypt once gave rise to radical muslim brotherhood , but it is also the birthplace of islamist socialism and anti-colonial , arab unity , and now a democratic way of democracy .
the big lie that arabs do not need democracy has been thoroughly exposed .
in the great bengali poet rabindranath tagore ’ s words , egypt ( now ) is the land of “ 昂首挺胸 and 无所畏惧 ” that has a profound impact .
the old arab land is cheering .
in power for decades , seemingly immovable autocracies have discovered that they are no longer firmly in power , and change is unwittingly quiet .
treaties with countries such as the united states and israel are no longer a tool for guaranteeing national policy .
memories of the past 18 days are so crowded that it is difficult to distinguish between different events and phases : surprise , moving , bizarre , and 梦幻 .
but the search for “ change ” is the stuff and consistency of all of this – a change that is not a promise or a tantalizing but desirable mirage , but an existential reality .
can this yearning go beyond the nile , as it goes from tunis to cairo ?
the problem haunts other arab regimes .
and , beyond the arab world , the world has been busy and forthrightly revising its foreign policy .
as a result , us policy is so capricious , from secretary of state hillary clinton ’ s “ not going premature , or the pro-democracy movement may be used to take advantage of president barack obama ’ s forceful call for reform . ”
but military rule is a stopgap exercise , and at least we think .
the great tunisian poet abu 沙比 has profoundly internalized egypt ’ s legendary message : “ if there is one day people want real life , they will be 命中注定 to 消弭 the 无形 . ”
their language is 正在流行 , and the electronic media are their tools .
they – and the world that we have – are already distancing themselves from the world that mubarak , or gamal abdel nasser , knew and understood .
egypt ’ s revolution faces a challenge for all successful revolutions : how to define the future .
as the ottoman empire ’ s disintegration or the 1952 nasser regime toppled king 法鲁克 ’ s regime in 1952 , the current changes are also needed .
and the future of the process will determine whether mubarak ’ s end marks the beginning of political reform in the middle east .
it is this opportunity that attracts attention from governments from washington to beijing .
the future of doubt is not just the suez canal and oil exports , but decades of 一成不变 strategic certainties need to be rethought .
for example , israel , which has received close attention to events in cairo after january 1979 , took the shah out of power in january 1979 .
the strategic nightmare of this strategy has lost the middle east ’ s closest allies in the region , and the former allies quickly turned into implacable enemies .
two recent wars in israel – hezbollah in 2006 and the attacks in gaza in 2009 – were directed against groups sponsored by iran , equipment , and training .
clearly , israel ’ s attention to egypt ’ s events will be stalled .
israel certainly doubt whether the peace agreement with egypt will last , if not , and how it should adapt its defense deployment .
but it is not only israel ’ s fate that has shaken up us policy .
after all , for three decades , egypt has been the cornerstone of the us balancing middle east – and the islamic world .
israel ’ s peace agreement has reinforced egypt ’ s neutrality , and the us could then put its strategic resources elsewhere .
egypt , in turn , avoided the middle east ’ s even greater disaster , with the support of a large us bailout , even though the israel-palestine conflict has never been disarming .
the central dilemma of the us dilemma is that it wants egypt ’ s basic state apparatus to persist , ensuring that power does not fall into rival hands .
this will require the us to stand on the side of public reform , while avoiding evidence of political bigotry .
obama ’ s response is clear to some of the skeptics .
he referred to mubarak as a “ pale man of human dignity , ” and said that “ the egyptian people are already saying their wish for the world , and egypt will no longer be the former . ”
but neither the rhetoric of obama or others can answer the questions that senior us officials have focused : will the arrival of the egyptian state lead to anti-americanism ?
running in place
santiago – a billionaire who owns harvard ’ s degree , chile ’ s president , has pledged to strengthen productivity and competitiveness , and win the election .
after taking office in 2010 , chile ’ s economy quickly recovered from the global financial crisis , job creation was created , and has been growing .
nor did the billionaire ever shy away from expressions of his accomplishments .
chile has shown that chile is a case of successful market reform , and he will leave the president on march 11 .
he is wrong .
worse , economic expansion proved unsustainable , and chileans will soon feel the consequences of piñera ’ s failure to deliver on their promises of growth .
during the 2008-2009 financial crisis , chile was hit hard : foreign loans disappeared , and the price of copper plummeted in major exports .
but this time , the chilean economy is well enough to withstand large-scale external shocks .
the government has been running surpluses , public debt is negligible , and banking supervision is very good .
as a result , president michelle bachelet , who has just been sworn in in 2010 and has just been sworn for the second term , could embrace a potent anti-crisis fiscal stimulus , financed by resources that had been stored in the previous copper boom .
the central bank , steered out of political pressure , 由广受 professionals , also intervened in a large interest rate .
in europe , the recession has lasted six years and continues ; in chile , the recession lasted ten months .
strict regulation and record-low interest rates allow firms and households to accumulate debt without having to accumulate debt .
in late 2009 , chile ’ s economy began growing again , with growth having been highly favorable to the external environment since then .
chile wants high commodity prices , rock-bottom dollar interest rates , and abundant international liquidity ; and , since 2010 , these have been met .
not surprisingly , chile ’ s rapid growth , until the us federal reserve began tapering qe at the end of last year , has caused economic activity to slow rapidly .
four years after the average annual gdp growth rate of more than 5 % , chile ’ s economy is expected to fall to 3.7 % or less in 2014 .
piñera blamed the incoming bachelet administration as a culprit for declining growth rates .
in that case , bachelet ’ s economists are so influential , because all latin american countries and emerging countries have experienced similar slowdowns .
the immediate cause of chile ’ s slowdown is the drop in investment , especially the drop in mining investment ; but the underlying problem is that there is no adequate economic diversification , which makes it difficult to understand which new investment and which new exports can be built .
exports of diversified countries such as thailand , malaysia , mexico , and ireland have changed a generation ago .
by contrast , chile ’ s exports basket remained unchanged .
in 1984 , chile exported copper and other raw materials , paper and pulp , fruits and wine , 鱼粉 , and 少量 manufactured goods .
three decades later , chile ’ s export basket remains such a thing .
energy investment may be able to start – but it will be possible to modernize chile ’ s institutions as possible .
this is another vestige of piñera ’ s legacy .
chile , with its neighbors , does not produce oil and gas .
today , chile ’ s electricity prices are the region ’ s 追高 , because generating electricity is less than growing .
a long saga could lead to the failure of the lights for years to come .
ensuring that cheap energy and clean environments are a huge challenge is a huge challenge .
experts agree that this requires national planning to deploy the country ’ s mountainous power plants , amend transmission mechanisms , and use natural gas , and the use of renewable energy , particularly wind and solar power .
unfortunately , piñera has done nothing in these areas .
employment policy is another shortcoming of the piñera administration .
while the recovery of the unemployment rate has fallen since 2009 , it has made little sense for governments to focus on the labor market , which leaves countless women and chilean youth excluded .
but these problems are politically sensitive , and small legal changes will lead to significant opposition .
piñera adopted a security approach – not attempting any change .
of course , the prospects for a job will be improved in chile , where they receive a first-rate education .
chile has done very well in terms of education , where enrollment is already comparable to that of developed countries ; but there is little success in ensuring that young people – especially children in low-income households – have achieved quality education .
piñera ’ s government , however , should pay a tension with student students who pay a college student .
this rivalry impedes other changes in education .
bachelet has promised to end this impasse and make education reform her government ’ s priority .
the goal is laudable , but achieving goals will not be easy .
every year , chile ’ s finance ministry will be independent of an independent group of experts to assess how high chile can achieve without inflation and other imbalances .
in the run-up to chile ’ s financial crisis in 2008 , the average answer provided by experts was 4.83 % .
in 2013 , three years after the center-right government took office , the answer is … % .
under piñera ’ s government , pro-growth rhetoric was abundant .
but rhetoric alone can not boost the economy ’ s growth trajectory .
one hundred days of solitude
santiago – violence is on the rise in ukraine , and protesters began to die from government agents , while the eu threatened to sanction ukrainian officials who bear “ violence and disproportionate use of force . ”
ukrainian president viktor yanukovych fled kyiv , leaving a private zoo with exotic pigs and sheep – and foreign ministers in germany , france , and poland – who are working to broker an end to the violence .
but , in nearly the same time , violence is occurring in venezuela , where protesters began to die from government agents , and the organization of american states ( iaea ) spoke to declaring that it will not speak .
the oas said that venezuela would solve the problem .
in caracas , there is no other latin american foreign minister – they certainly did not condemn repression and demand an end to violence .
meanwhile , the number of deaths has been rising .
the contrast highlights the fact that latin america ’ s regional institutions are weak and even weaker than europe .
but it also exposed something : governments and leaders are silent in confronting abuses , repression , and even death , because it is morally untenable to condemn the logic of “ interference ” in his country ’ s internal affairs .
not always .
not long ago , in latin america , life and freedom were seen as universal rights , and should be protected from national boundaries .
my father was a chilean lawyer and human-rights activist .
general augusto pinochet and our family removed him from our family , and my adolescence and the early days of the adult have been in exile and fear in exile , from exile in chile , argentina , brazil , and uruguay .
none of us – latin america ’ s left – has once doubted that defending human rights is a duty for everyone ’ s responsibility , the international community should be accountable to their governments , and the killing of their people .
in pinochet ’ s chile or weidmann , general augusto pinochet ’ s argentines , who accused the government of acts of violence against the government , were treated as a subject of international communist conspiracy .
today , anyone accused of violence in venezuela is – in the words of president nicolás maduro – fascism , american imperialism .
yes , venezuela ’ s situation must be determined by venezuelans .
the problem is that some venezuelans today can not march peacefully without being shot up .
some venezuelans can not speak freely to their fellow citizens , because any television station that delivers their voice would be banned and killed .
some venezuelans can not guarantee their rights .
the general prosecutor , the national election commission , and the supreme court ’ s term have long gone to the end of the term , but their successors have fallen short , because they are negotiating with the opposition to a two-thirds majority in the national assembly , which is unable to appoint him .
venezuelans will be pleased if they decide their own destiny , but they will not have a democratic way of doing so .
indeed , one of the main opposition leaders , andrés manuel lópez obrador , has been arrested on charges of “ inciting crime . ”
it would be absurd to confront ukrainian demonstrators in the face of the government ’ s minions , without external solidarity or support .
so do venezuelan demonstrators .
in this context , the principle of autonomous principle of autonomy that foreign ministries have always heard is an empty slogan .
perhaps the saddest foreign response is the university of chile ’ s student federation .
the federation , reminiscent of stalin ’ s tone in the 1950 ’ s , condemned the venezuelan students ’ “ to defend the old order ” and “ deviation from the path of the people ’ s chosen paths . ”
the problem with this argument ( if it can be called the point ) is that “ people ” do not speak out with a voice , nor do they make a full voice .
to figure out what really people want and respond accordingly , democracies have procedures , constitutional guarantees , and individual rights .
when these are trampled upon – as in venezuela – people simply can not speak freely and choose the path of the road freely .
the idea that maduro ’ s actions must be legitimate , because he was in power by elections , is equally mistaken .
democratically elected leaders have legitimacy only when they govern democratically .
georgetown university professor 夏米 夏米 recently recalled that portugal ’ s neo-nazis , paraguay ’ s 斯特 罗斯纳 , and indonesia ’ s suharto were all running out of power by running out of power , but not in history .
yanukovych has won the election , but his memory was only the bloodshed that he provoked , the economic bankruptcy of ukraine , and , of course , his private zoo and 车库 车库 .
venezuelans , like ukrainians , should understand that they are not alone .
their struggle for democratic rights is a struggle for all .
latin american people know this , even if their leaders are not always willing to say loud .
industrial policy reconsidered
santiago – for starters , the world bank has become a tireless advocate of women and gay rights .
then the imf supported the use of capital controls and expressed concerns about income inequality .
the next step in this ideological modernization is the inter-american development bank : the bank ’ s call for industrial policy in latin america .
this is a welcome development .
to be sure , the inter-american development bank , unlike the two institutions that emerged from the bretton woods system , is also the traditional international financial bureaucracy , with no industrial policy right ; it used the right phrase : “ productive development policies . ”
but the message is clear : in latin america , public policy should play a role in determining what to produce .
now it is common sense .
last week , economists from the inter-american development bank met in santiago , chile , for their proposal .
chile has been a model for economic management in latin america for decades , as well as the mirror of all latin american economies .
falling commodity prices , rising dollar interest rates , and a sharp rise in the dollar ’ s interest rate have slowed sharply .
productivity growth has barely grown in nearly 15 years , and its exports are as different as in the 1980s .
chile ’ s growth problem is the smallest in the region .
it is one of the region ’ s only four countries , which have shrunk per capita income relative to the us since 1960 ( another three are brazil , panama , and the dominican republic ) .
the inter-american development bank pointed out that productivity in most of latin america has been stagnant for a half-century of time .
what can be done ?
the conventional prescription includes improving education ( especially technical education ) , modernizing labor markets , reducing bureaucratic red tape , and promoting foreign investment and technology transfer .
the iadb has now joined or “ 横向 ” productive development policies on this standard list .
horizontal pdps provide the inputs that are needed for companies in different sectors to grow and grow .
a simple example involves transport infrastructure , trained engineers , and labor force proficient in english .
more sophisticated examples include systems for health and safety inspection , certification certification , or intellectual property protection .
the problem is that some of these public provision can be used only for specific sectors or products .
roads to remote and beautiful mountains boost eco-tourism , but do nothing to move goods to the nearest port .
the lab used to detect whether beef is contained is no useful for examining fruit and vegetable exports .
that is where vertical policies – policies that benefit the benefits of specific sectors – are coming .
horizontal pdps are relatively small , but vertical pdps may have severe criticism , and skeptics claim that they are “ picking winners . ”
but , as these examples suggest , the line between horizontal and vertical policies is inevitable .
in other words , when governments provide funds to train a particular type of engineers , build a particular road , or build a particular lab , they have no favors in some sectors , thereby picking the winners .
the iadb argues that the best , transparent implementation of this policy , and introducing appropriate checks and balances .
vertical policies can also be used to address the failures of cooperation .
consider tourism , where there is plenty of room for tourism .
but no private enterprise will build a hotel in so remote , sparsely populated regions without the lead .
by contrast , without hotels and 客栈 , there will be no government officials to think that they will build roads , because they do not make sense .
tourism can not take off without deliberate private-public partnerships .
the skeptics also point out that latin america has experienced a wave of industrial policy in the 1960s and 1960s , with only patchy effects .
the iadb report provides a balanced assessment of this history .
making matters worse , the government has helped to get away with the weak and powerful .
in asia , many firms that initially helped sooner or later grow into world-class competitors .
but , in latin america , where there is little market and policy discipline and chronically overvalued exchange rates , such a shift is seldom occurring .
to be sure , these problems need to be overcome .
but the inter-american development bank argues that latin american governments may go too far : “ today , policymakers and analysts are becoming increasingly aware of the possibility that industrial policy can be kept together with the bathwater . ”
it is increasingly evident that the problem is not whether to adopt productive development policies , but how to adopt it .
unlike the archaic industrial policy of the 1960 ’ s , modern pdps aim to address market failures , not to abolish market incentives .
market failures are not the only problem .
a new approach to pdps also fears national failure .
national institutions may be captured by interest groups , and aid can be used for private or political purposes .
to prevent this , the report again deviates from the orthodoxy that countries recognize and replicate the “ best practices ” of the country .
if these best practices require conditions that local governments can not provide , this approach will not succeed .
as a result , “ the core should not be in policy best practices , but it should be in the most institutional capacity . ”
latin america needs a lot of fresh thinking and policy innovations if it is to sustain growth during the commodity boom .
no policy can be saved .
but the approach proposed by the iadb report is the most promising approach .
dead cow walking ?
santiago – a statue of american independence hero , a country that wants to unite the continent as a whole , would be a recipe for the unraveling of today ’ s south american energy sector .
no doubt , he can easily see that no society can build on such a decentralized basis .
peru has gas and sold it to mexico .
bolivia has natural gas , but it has been being exploited since the nationalization of the gas industry in 2006 .
argentina once had a gas industry , but it was decimated by years of misguided government policies .
while brazil discovered hydrocarbons across the atlantic deep years ago and started auctions , it began to produce more years .
chile has no oil and gas , and no single neighbor will sell it , so it has to buy from distant indonesia .
moreover , south america ’ s electricity grid is often inconsistent with the same , with electricity prices very different .
brazil and chile have the highest electricity prices in south america ( and are not so much in the world ) .
their industrial competitiveness and consumer budgets are thus affected .
optimists imagine that the production of productive , pipeline construction is fully , 互通 , and natural gas in bolivia , argentina , and elsewhere to boost growth across the continent and benefit everyone .
but this dream has always met with formidable obstacles : for decades , the national rivalries have repeatedly been able to block the energy integration agreement , which has been produced for centuries .
for example , ten years ago , chile and argentina signed contracts to supply gas to the former in order to supply gas to the former .
but , after a long period of price controls and underinvestment , domestic demand in argentina exceeded supply .
thus , then-president néstor kirchner ’ s government broke down the contract with chile , cutting off gas exports to chile , causing serious damage to chile ’ s economic growth , severely hurting the chilean people .
but now a new powerful factor may change this dismal political situation : shale gas has already had a significant impact on the us and its economy .
america ’ s natural and us prices have fallen to just over $ 4 per 百万 ( $ 13 years ago ) , even cautious analysts believe that the shale-energy revolution will boost america ’ s potential economic growth and increase the number of new jobs .
the impact of shale energy on south america is twofold .
for starters , the cost of imports from countries with no gas ( such as chile ) and local demand , such as those in brazil , could fall .
for countries like chile , large hydroelectric projects tend to lead to political controversy , with solar and wind power slowly and slow , and gas imports from the us will be a powerful boon .
in 2013 , the us department of energy approved the first large-scale gas export facilities ; despite the absence of stable gas flows , the gap between us and global gas prices meant its potential .
more recently , shale gas is development .
argentina reportedly has the world ’ s third-largest shale-gas reserves , after the us and china .
the vast death of the energy company ypf ( dead cow ) , with a 巨大 ( dead cow ) field , has begun exploration .
argentina ’ s government nationalized ypf from spain ’ s repsol in 2012 , resulting in lawsuits and lawsuits that delay potential investment in shale gas .
recently , however , argentina and repsol have reached a settlement , with interest in investment in shale gas being revived .
to be sure , there is a huge technological challenge for exploring the shale-gas reserves , with only a handful of companies worldwide having the skills to do so .
the financial challenge is even more severe : analysts predict a hundred hundred or even hundreds of billions of dollars .
but the potential for argentina and the region is enormous .
axel sturzenegger , the president of argentina ’ s economist , has estimates that the value of the gas field ( currently measured in argentina ’ s current gas imports ) is nine times the value of argentina ’ s gdp .
but , with global prices likely to fall rapidly as the us joined the exporting countries , argentina must act quickly to seize this potential .
sturzenegger ’ s decision on shale gas is the “ most important ” decision in argentina ’ s economic history .
argentina ’ s choice will affect not only the region ’ s economy , but also regional politics .
because the cow of the cow is far more expensive than argentina ’ s , exports will be inevitable , and neighboring brazil and chile are natural customers .
the shift in the balance of power in south america , in turn , could turn nationalists in bolivia , peru , and elsewhere into rethink their policies .
integration of oil , gas , and other energy industries , together with the interconnection of the national power grid , may occur .
the economic and political landscape in south america is changing permanently .
does this be too optimistic ?
perhaps .
in south america , it remains to be built to ensure that energy flows are safe and reliable .
as the region ’ s history shows , it is not a simple task .
but if the stakes are so high , the potential is so large , we should at least remain hopeful .
mercosur blues
santiago – the leaders of mercosur met this week in caracas , with the 空气 slogan .
but it is also clear that the decay of decay is clear .
mercosur is often defined as a 贸易组织 ; indeed , it was linked to politics .
the region ’ s major regional powers are expected to counterbalance the us in hemispheric affairs .
the argentine peronist government used the organization to hype the regional integration of the region without lifting actual barriers to trade barriers .
with venezuelan president hugo chávez ’ s entry in 2006 , the populist tendencies had become clear .
as a chilean government minister for almost ten years , i vividly remember the frustration of a conference in mercosur ( chile was an associate member ) .
they are well placed to posturing and endless speeches , but less than any substantive agreement .
at the 2006 summit on the 科尔多瓦 summit , chávez and fidel castro stood up with the longest 漫无边际 of who was , at the summit .
bolivia , a charismatic populist , is keen to develop closer ties .
ecuador quickly followed suit .
a handful of small caribbean countries also joined the country ’ s political course in exchange for generous infusions of cash and oil .
back then , mercosur leaders could also call themselves the region ’ s “ alternative development model . ”
no one is anymore .
this week , caracas is mourning .
chávez ’ s successor nicolás maduro faces economic collapse and tensions within the party .
while oil prices remain relatively high , venezuela ’ s large fiscal deficit and foreign-exchange reserves have fallen .
inflation is the region ’ s highest , and the economy is stagnating .
faced with rising citizens ’ dissatisfaction with living conditions , maduro ’ s government has relied on violent repression to prevent street protests .
the opposition leader , 波尔多 lópez obrador , has been on trial until a few months in military prison .
institutions like human rights watch have repeatedly denounced the government ’ s human-rights violations and restrictions on civil liberties .
argentina ’ s president , cristina fernández fernández kirchner , traveled to caracas to send hope to the outside world that she would buy the country ’ s sovereign bonds to buy the country ’ s sovereign bonds and successfully prosecute the required payment .
but fernández found that his colleagues ’ polite 鼓励 encourages little .
the united states supreme court ’ s last month to maintain the upper court ’ s upper court for argentina was in despair .
paying for recalcitrant bondholders is not only facing a loss , but also a recurring case ; payment amounts to a technical default , and to bear the consequences .
she chose the latter .
foreign capital is vital for fernández , because , like maduro , she faces a growing economic stagnation and a worsening dollar .
with the return of capital markets to capital markets , her economic team repaired ties with the sovereign creditors ’ club and spanish repsol ’ s nationalization of the oil giant ypf ; but the defeat of the vulture funds brought her country a huge blow .
with the october 2015 presidential election approaching , most of the potential candidates ( including her own party ) were quick to distance themselves from her authoritarian style and poor economic conditions .
bolivia ’ s president evo morales has done his constitutional and legal trick to ensure that he is re-elected .
after two terms , morales banned reelection in theory .
but bolivia ’ s constitutional court ruled that he could run , because the new constitution will be renamed bolivia as a 维亚国 state ; so morales served as the head of another country .
when asked why he will run again , when asked again ( a response to national leaders ) , spain ’ s former queen sophia encouraged him to “ do the job . ”
ecuador ’ s democratic institutions are also under siege .
an independent report documented 12 governments ’ involvement in court rulings .
the controversial 禁言 of the press has led to the main print media .
as the outgoing commissioner for freedom of speech on human rights in the americas , jimmy porter , has said , “ ecuador and cuba are most restrictive about free speech . ”
brazilian president dilma rousseff faces a situation similar to the mandarins of mercosur , but in different directions .
brazil ’ s president can not manipulate the constitution or close media .
but it has always been in brasilia ( not to mention germany ’ s great victory in the world cup ) .
brazil ’ s rapid recovery from the 2008 financial crisis has made it the latest round of international financial markets ; but , since then , growth has left no prior commitment .
but the unemployment rate is low and people worry about the economy – and that concerns have been seeping into politics .
with rousseff ’ s poll ratings declining and his opponents slowly climb , the presidential election held in october – once again – may now emerge .
absent from the caracas summit , chilean president michelle bachelet was in caracas , owing to cold and busy domestic affairs .
political complications related to the opposition to the venezuelan opposition ( which bachelet has chosen not to attend ) are also partly part of the case .
the nature of the moderates who led a moderate confrontation against maduro , fernández , morales , and correa is rousseff and bachelet .
but rousseff , like her predecessor , luiz inácio lula inácio lula da silva , chose to abandon his role in venezuela as well .
chile wants to go it alone , and bachelet is struggling to cope with a growing tax , education , and constitutional reform .
uruguay ’ s president , josé mujica , made the best summary of the situation in caracas : “ we issued a statement .
in other words , caracas remains an irrelevant talking shop – the rise of modern center-left leaders in latin america .
the third way ’ s second chance
santiago – remember tony blair and clinton ’ s third way ?
it is back .
the face and name , but the government can – and should – combine the idea of social democracy and modern liberal economics .
the third way that the third way , at the meeting of berlin ’ s leaders , hosted by german chancellor gerhard schröder in june 2000 , seemed to be the future .
the conference was tony blair ’ s handpicked product ( though he did not attend ) .
leaders in sweden and new zealand argue that you can make the country more hospitable and effective .
and south africa ’ s mbeki , fernando henrique cardoso , brazil ’ s fernando henrique cardoso , and chile ’ s lagos ( i am a member of lagos ’ s delegation ) , declared that the third way can go well to the so-called third world .
unfortunately , this does not last .
the sound argument for progressive governance has not easily become a permanent political philosophy .
al gore traded clintonomics for traditional populism , and was defeated by george w. bush .
social democrats and their allies lost power in several european countries .
the iraq war and the 2008-2009 global financial crisis led to serious criticism of the policies advocated by third way leaders .
fast to the status quo .
italy ’ s 39-year-old socialist prime minister , matteo renzi , is often called italy ’ s last hope .
he promised ( though not yet ) a deep labor market and fiscal reform .
after the election victory , renzi received praise from blair himself , and blair called “ matteo renzi ’ s dynamism , creativity , and toughness . ”
socialist prime minister manuel valls , france ’ s socialist prime minister , is betting on political capital on an ambitious tax and spending plan that is not supported by its own party .
critics from the orthodox left accuse him of “ taking a solution to blair and schroeder . ”
renzi and valls – and pedro sánchez of spain ’ s socialist party – are part of a broader trend .
as the world economy slows , many center-left politicians are trying to mobilize markets and stimulate growth while investing in jobs and skills .
the urgent need for a return to the third way is thus to return to the third way .
unsurprisingly , europe ’ s heavily indebted governments are moving in new social policies that are fiscal .
but the harsh austerity pursued by german conservatism is not the same as the gradual adjustment pursued by the new generation of southern european social democrats .
conservatives demand fiscal adjustment , regardless of the outcome .
the modern social democrats who read keynes know that some immediate adjustment is necessary to make the plan credible .
but they also know that increased spending on human capital and physical infrastructure is necessary to limit the impact of fiscal contraction on employment and wages , and to strengthen the economy ’ s growth potential .
another reason why the third way of thinking to regain the market is that it works .
schroeder ’ s effort to restructure germany ’ s labor market in the early 2000 ’ s was controversial at the time ; but , in hindsight , schröder ’ s efforts turned germany from the sick man of europe into a continental export champion .
the nordic countries are the pioneer of a new approach to experimenting with a new approach , while adopting “ flexicurity ” in the labor relationship .
as a result : they have achieved the trifecta of robust growth , high employment , and low public debt .
the effectiveness of this idea is not limited to the rich countries of the north .
the government of the concertación , garcía garcía garcía in peru , and fernando henrique cardoso in brazil , has taken inspiration from the 日程 agenda .
they have ( or led ) to their respective countries .
but they have no denying their country ’ s unprecedented democratic integration and economic modernization .
it is not surprising that aécio neves , a party in the same party as cardoso , did .
but the socialist silva is so remarkable that she has signed a new trade pact that transcends mercosur ( mercosur ) , to make the bcb independent .
blair , who gave the bank of england full independence in his first week in office , will be proud .
there are many differences between countries and time , but they include four shared ideas .
the first is policy pragmatism .
what matters is what works , not what is ideologically pure .
the debate about whether countries should be big or 小些 is both cumbersome and meaningless , and it is more effective to ask what kind of state intervention , where it is actually done .
the second idea is fiscal realism .
budget prudence is worth pursuing ( unsustainable deficits as a way to continue ) , and progressive ( when the poor and vulnerable suffer disproportionately ) .
the third idea is modern welfare states .
countries can and should redistribute income and wealth , but they can not undermine incentives to work and save .
governments can not simply engage in propaganda , but they should work to ensure good jobs and good income .
finally , the third way is defined by progressive liberalism .
liberty and equality are complementary , not contradictory , principles .
if the rules are properly formulated , the societies of people freely determine and act can be a society in which opportunities are distributed equitably .
conversely , without minimum equality , freedom can be a mirage .
these four ideas have given way to the third way , making it a second chance – though it should have been the first option for all .
the lawless sea
santiago – the rule of law is virtually non-existent , with little governance and policy .
illegal , unreported , and unregulated economic activity is rampant .
the powerful seize non-renewable resources .
environmental degradation is rising .
that sounds like a description of a failed state , a desperate poor country beset by civil war , or fictional 异邦 .
nor is it .
with a vast land of near anarchy ( 45 % of the earth ’ s surface ) , its name is the high seas .
how is this possible ?
after all , in 1982 , there was a legally binding un convention on the law of the sea ( unclos ) , and 166 countries and the eu signed the treaty .
at unclos , the high seas were protected , because they were hard to enter .
but technological advances have enabled resource exploration to be much deeper than ever before .
unclos has not kept pace with the development of the age .
industries and activities such as fisheries , shipping , and seabed mining are both independent .
there is no governance framework for emerging high-seas industries such as energy production .
transparency and accountability are weak , and there is no enforcement of law enforcement .
moreover , the authorities have limited power to intercept vessels suspected of illegal activity .
as a result , international cooperation against illegal fishing , weapons , and drug trafficking , population trafficking , and drug trafficking , and the international cooperation of vessels engaged in terrorist operations , has been severely strained .
the results are dire .
the ocean is the earth ’ s life-support system , and its health and productivity depend on the oceans .
but overfishing and pollution are causing serious damage .
the ocean waste will cause a million 海鸟 and 100,000 mammals ( seals , whales , and dolphins ) to die from drowning , asphyxiation , or starvation .
plastic pollution – including the fragmentation and the harmful plastics of the food chain – is becoming a growing problem .
likewise , rising temperatures are causing the ocean to decline .
the increase in carbon dioxide emissions is causing ocean acidification and unprecedented changes in chemical and 物理性质 , which in turn affects marine life and ecosystems .
every life in the global ocean is under threat .
today , we need to introduce the law of the sea , which is the aim of the global ocean commission .
the global ocean commission is an independent international institution comprising former heads of state , government ministers , and business leaders .
i am one of the commissioners .
last week , we proposed a package of remedies for improving governance and restoring ocean health efforts .
to strengthen high-seas governance , the global ocean commission calls for a new agreement based on unclos to protect biological diversity outside of national jurisdictions .
so far , less than 1 % of the high-seas ocean is protected , so the new deal includes provisions for establishing protected areas in the high seas .
we also propose an international agreement to assume responsibility and compensation for the economic losses and ecological damage caused by offshore oil and gas extraction and production . offshore oil and gas extraction should be subject to legally binding security agreements .
despite being in excess of overfishing , a handful of countries – including the united states , japan , and china , as well as the european union – are deliberately supporting industrial high-seas fishing .
without subsidies , high-seas fisheries would be unprofitable .
we propose immediate restrictions on high-seas fisheries and eliminate the subsidy within five years , and countries ’ fisheries subsidies should be transparent , and about 60 % to encourage sustainable fishing operations .
moreover , in order to eliminate the illegal fishing of the marine and marine life , we call for mandatory identification numbers , tracking all high-seas fishing vessels , and prohibit sea transit altogether .
by closing loopholes , we will ultimately leave fish caught with illegal fishing unable to grow and lose market .
the international ocean accountability board , which is accountable to an independent global ocean , is to monitor progress in all of these areas .
if the ocean worsens , and without adequate safeguards , the international community will have to consider that the international community will have to take the place of the high seas – in the region , where fisheries management is effective – as a ban on industrial fishing .
we can reverse the degradation of marine oceans , turning the cycle into a cycle of renewal .
bringing about change requires political will , and a concerted effort by governments , businesses , and civil society .
this can and must be done .
join us : //missionocean.me .
now it must take action .
unless we take strong governance , use the necessary means to enforce regulations , rampant 盗捕 will continue to lawlessness , without binding international security standards for deep sea oil and gas drilling , plastic pollution , and abandoned fishing tools .
the more the world ’ s ocean survives , the more our future generations will survive .
argentina ’ s use and abuse of keynes
buenos aires – us republican president richard nixon famously said in 1971 that “ we are all keynesians now . ”
axel kicillof , argentina ’ s peronist economy minister , is now in the same mood as nixon .
is he right ?
kicillof has gained the top value of argentina ’ s fight against so-called vulture funds , which , in several cents , bought the value of argentina ’ s argentine bonds , and tried to blackmail argentina ’ s full payment .
but , before president cristina fernández ’ s cabinet , kicillof was known in argentina ’ s intellectual best because a return to keynes was a return .
last week , when he spoke of a packed gold packed with the elite elite in argentina , kicillof explained the government ’ s policy as a real-world application of keynesian theory .
there are two key points to the speech .
first , kicillof attributed argentina ’ s rapid economic growth in 2001 to the 2008 global financial crisis , as a keynesian upturn in domestic aggregate demand .
keynes ’ s great contribution was to prove that the supply of a market economy does not necessarily create demand , and that the absence of an economic downturn could have been avoided .
can this logic apply in argentina ?
when argentina ’ s economy collapsed in 2001 , the people lost their jobs to their firms , causing domestic demand to shrink .
output fell sharply .
but when argentina abolished its currency and the dollar , the real exchange rate fell sharply .
this leads to the shift from imports to domestic products .
the price of food exports has risen sharply , in part , in argentina , where government revenues increased , with the accumulation of sufficient cash to increase spending .
because argentina almost isolated international financial markets , its central bank can reduce domestic interest rates without capital flight .
fiscal and monetary stimulus supported the rapid recovery in domestic economies .
at first glance , kicillof seems to be right ; this does resemble textbook keynesian reflation .
but keynes himself would not have favored the macroeconomic policies pursued by fernández and her predecessor , néstor kirchner , and the late néstor kirchner .
keynesian policies will first ensure that demand does not fall short of supply .
the kirchners have ensured that demand goes far beyond supply .
the fact that argentina ’ s annual inflation rate of 10 % for more than a decade has been at 20 % , and the fact that the price index has been rigged , is not really true .
he mentioned keynes ’ s self-fulfilling theory of expectations and warned people that if they were expected to go wrong , the expectation becomes reality .
keynes did say that capitalism ’ s economy is like a beauty contest , with judges choosing not to be the most beautiful players , but that their colleagues think the best .
expectations can change the outcome .
but argentines are not pessimistic about the economy for other argentines .
they are pessimistic because economic fundamentals are weak – and fundamentally different .
in 1991 , the nobel laureate economist paul krugman , arguably the world ’ s most respected keynesian , told people whether it is self-fulfilling , depending on underlying economic conditions .
if economic fundamentals are weak , the crisis will sooner or later inevitable ; if fundamentals are strong , the crisis will never happen ; but if the fundamentals of the crisis are too strong , the crisis will be expected .
a few years ago , the eurozone was in the latter .
ecb president mario draghi ’ s commitment to “ do whatever it takes ” to save the euro is immediately preventing the eurozone ’ s debt crisis .
( the development crisis , of course , remains unresolved . )
but argentina is not the eurozone .
whatever kicillof is to say , draghi ’ s commitment to the soothing effect that draghi has promised is impossible .
today ’ s argentines feel like dorothy – who has just begun to put in oz – they have moved away from the safe and familiar “ kansas . ”
but keynes should not take this responsibility , kicillof and kirchner .
monsieur piketty goes to latin america
santiago – there is no telling latin america ’ s left-wing intellectuals about inequality , as a frenchman wrote about inequality .
so , predictably , thomas piketty ’ s capital in the twenty-first century has been 洛阳纸贵 .
for two months , on the basis of the book published in english , the great work of the paris school of economics , a professor of economics in the paris school of economics , confirms the claims of inequality in latin america .
piketty 优美 the dynamics of capital accumulation in a market economy .
in his infamous formulation , if the return on capital is higher than the rate of economic growth , inherited wealth will rise faster than corporate income , and owners of capital will increase the share of national output .
no one can deny that income distribution in latin america is too large .
but the fact that piketty ’ s supporters ( many of whom have never read his book ) may be surprised , with his theory irrelevant to the 测得 dynamics of the region ’ s measured income distribution .
piketty ’ s theory is about what economists call the functional distribution of income : the distribution of labor providers and owners of capital .
but in latin america , an unequal distribution of inequality in latin america is about personal distribution of labor income – the distribution of the wage .
that is because the data on income distribution in latin america stem from surveys of households , which rarely provide real information about what piketty calls the rentiers ( their income is actually profitable , dividends , or interest ) .
for example , in 2009 , the 极广 household survey of chile showed that the distribution of capital income is more fair than labor income .
there is , of course , no belief in the right nature .
that outcome shows that owners of stocks and bonds tend to lie to government investigators .
this , in turn , reveals two points of information about income distribution in latin america .
second , even if the capital dynamics that are concerned are excluded , latin america ’ s income distribution will remain skewed .
the solution to the distribution of inequality is not the high wealth taxes that piketty produces alone .
why not ?
clearly , if labor income is distorted , redistributing capital income or assets to the poor would increase overall equality .
the imf economist ’ s latest paper uses a new set of data sets to cover new data sets in large countries , which are quite optimistic about increasing the chances of redistribution without undermining economic growth .
but the paper also reminds people of the limited income that the tax system can redistribute .
the authors compare the gini coefficient of government and transfer payments before the gini coefficient ( the gini coefficient is an index of inequality , and a zero point of 100 points ) .
as a result , only a handful of countries ’ redistribution has caused more than 10 % of the gini coefficient ’ s gini coefficient , and the gini coefficient ’ s gini coefficient , if more than 13 points , would have a negative impact on growth .
of course , real-life redistribution is much smaller , at least in latin america .
tax reform recently proposed by chilean president michelle bachelet ’ s administration has raised taxes by 3 % .
even if that money does not leaks out , and all went to the redistribution of chileans to the poverty of chileans , the reform would lower the gini coefficient of chile .
the problem is that chile ’ s after-tax gini coefficient is about 50 % ( as is brazil , colombia , and peru ) , and the gini coefficient in the advanced countries is mostly 30 or 20 .
bringing chile and some of its neighbors to the level of equality in oecd countries requires far more than tax reform .
in other words , if a society ’ s initial competition conditions are very unfair , the society is still in the midst of a sizeable fiscal redistribution .
thus , the policy focus must also be on what yale university political scientist jacob hacker calls “ pre-distribution ” ( pre ) , to change the market ’ s structure of wages .
there are three tools for improving the distribution of income .
for starters , education reform – a strong emphasis on teacher training – would enable low-income citizens to provide new skills that they can provide in the labor market .
second , targeted industrial policies create the demand for these workers and their newly acquired skills .
third , labor-market modernization can match workers ’ skills and firms more effectively in the context of increasingly divergent conditions .
these policies are not substitutes , but complementary : they must be implemented simultaneously .
doing so will not be easy .
in latin america , political leaders in the left worry about the economic and social justice issues that must be applied to their own countries .
there is no recipe for what they want in the french economist ’ s magnum opus .
the high cost of ocean degradation
santiago – the planet ’ s oceans are in trouble .
in the last nine months , the intergovernmental panel on climate change reported that the oceans are warming , seawater is melting , and oxygen concentrations are falling .
last week , another initiative on the international maritime state of the international ocean outlined these factors and other factors , such as destructive fishing and pollution , to the marine life .
marine degradation is not as visible as deforestation , but it is not in the same way .
the oxygen we breathe is at least half the oceans .
the damage to the ocean will have a serious impact on the planet .
environmental degradation is particularly acute in the vast seas of international governance .
these waters are outside of exclusive economic zones ; they comprise two-thirds of the oceans , covering fully 45 % of the earth ’ s surface .
the global ocean commission , an independent project that i joined earlier this year , is reviewing the situation of the high seas .
next year , the global ocean commission will offer a set of recommendations on how to restore the ocean to health and ecological productivity .
one of the first tasks is to quantify the economic losses caused by marine degradation .
in 1997 , the groundbreaking paper written by robert Costanza and his colleagues 推算 the total value of marine ecosystems to $ 21 trillion .
others estimate that illegal fishing costs the global economy $ 10-23.5 billion a year ; fisheries mismanagement costs $ 50 billion annually .
but these are ten years ago , and the global ocean commission will update these numbers and make them more precise .
it is not enough to prove that the losses are huge .
clearly , the next question is what should be done .
no official body is accountable to the high seas .
so , even if economic losses are far higher than previous estimates , there is no effective mechanism for change .
the main pillar of the ocean governance , the united nations convention on the law of the sea , is a product of 30 years ago .
for 30 years , technology has become fast-changing , and demand for resources has increased substantially .
so stopping and reversing the degradation of the global marine environment requires improving governance mechanisms , which must be enforced by improving the economic incentives and innovative solutions .
to this end , countries with a governance experience can help .
costa rica ’ s forest governance began in the early 1990s , with the country taxing fossil fuels in the early 1990 ’ s , using income to protect forests .
the net result is a reversal of deforestation .
costa rica ’ s economy also benefits from growing tourism , indirectly benefiting from ecosystem services , such as pollination .
the concept of payment for ecosystem services is currently receiving attention from governments around the world .
costa rica and colombia have both signed programs funded by donor governments .
brazil has introduced programs for protecting watercourses .
the program for redd+ ( cutting emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ) will be paid to the global ecosystem for ecosystem conservation , by rewarding forest conservation .
in the future , these ideas should be more noticed , because the supply of our non-renewable resources is drying up .
in the global ocean commission ’ s reform recommendations next year , economic analysis will be the centerpiece .
with more accurate data about the value of the ocean , we must decide how to use this information .
payment for ecosystem services is a solution , though it may be simpler .
but , whatever mechanisms they take , we must address governance issues : today ’ s institutional integrity will lead to sustained economic and ecological damage .
keeping the current laissez-faire regime afloat carries high costs .
one hopes that national leaders understand that the earth ’ s oceans – and the ecosystem services that it provides – are essential .
secular stagnation revisited
santiago – the return of commodity prices to people , the fed will gradually exit quantitative easing , driving up us interest rates , and latin america ’ s economies face challenges for sustainable growth .
in 2013 , growth in the region ’ s major economies slowed , and it is expected to be so .
today , it is clear that latin america ’ s rapid growth in the years following the 2008-2009 global economic crisis was not a revolutionary policy shift , but a highly favorable external environment .
as long as the price of soy , wheat , copper , oil , and other raw materials remains high , commodity-rich countries like brazil , chile , and peru have a strong boost ; and even argentina ’ s economic policies have grown fast .
but now , “ secular stagnation ” – ever since former us treasury secretary larry summers noted last november that the us ( and perhaps other advanced economies ) had been in a prolonged period of weak gdp growth – is likely to come to latin america .
the point is that the worsening of consumer debt , declining population growth , and worsening inequality have weakened consumer demand , stimulated savings , and slower growth in productivity and output itself .
thus , “ natural ” interest rates – which make investment demand equal to the supply of savings – have fallen , and even falling to negative levels .
but , because real interest rates can not be at a severe negative level ( unless inflation is high , the reality is that it is saving ) .
with consumption and investment , the us economy will be doomed to stall .
but this theory applies to latin america , where growth is stronger , higher interest rates , and stronger domestic demand than the us .
consider latin america ’ s history .
until the recent 繁荣 boom , growth in latin america was mediocre .
in the 1980 ’ s , with debt crises and massive recession , known as “ lost decades , ” the market reforms of the 1990 ’ s did not boost short-term growth .
from 1996 to 2007 , only four countries in latin america and the caribbean – brazil , chile , the dominican republic , and panama – grew faster than the us .
the decline in growth in the coming years is thus merely a return to latin america ’ s old path , not a historical trajectory .
this brings us to secular stagnation .
to be sure , latin american countries ’ average per capita gdp is only one-quarter that of the us , and thus should be faster than that of the north .
the question is how much faster .
against this background , stagnation means that growth is not enough for a long time to reach the level of living in the us .
unlike the us , latin american economies ’ actual output is at or near its potential , so boosting growth requires investment .
but investment has been disappointing .
the region ’ s problems are not too much domestic saving , but too little .
latin american countries account for 18 % of gdp , compared to 30 % in east asia .
as a result , whenever investment begins in latin america , it must borrow from abroad .
foreign investors are willing to accept the results of the current-account deficit , but there is a limit .
last may , us federal reserve chairman ben bernanke was only a bit bland – declaring that qe was finally over – and that the emerging economies that have been running out of current-account deficits have lost confidence in emerging economies that account for more than 4 % of gdp .
as a result , as in the past , so long as foreigners feel nervous , financing and investment will be curtailed , and growth will stall .
the scarcity of savings in latin america reflects poorly designed incentives for poorly designed tax and pension systems .
but savings performance also correlates with long-term fiscal problems .
to be sure , in 2007 , many latin american economies had improved their fiscal position , so countries like chile could implement strong anti-crisis fiscal measures .
but , as the iadb ’ s 2013 report makes clear , fiscal stimulus is not always in the timely future , so the fiscal position in latin america today is weaker than it was in 2007 .
the composition of government spending is also problematic .
according to the same iadb report , investment accounts for only 16 % of total fiscal spending , and less than half of the emerging asian population .
as a result , latin america has long suffered from technological infrastructure deficits , which have become a drag on growth .
even more than future domestic savings can not guarantee higher investment .
businesses ’ willingness to invest depends on how much output can be reaped from investment , and productivity growth in latin america ( and the us ) is disappointing .
the cause of productivity lags , but one of them is not the diversity of local economic structures .
the increase in productivity , or increases in efficiency , or the new sectors that are more productive – a process that can be seen by observing the extent of export diversification .
the sad fact is that most latin american countries today – mexico is a notable exception – export nothing more than two decades ago .
this is another significant difference in latin america and east asia .
so , can latin american economies sustain growth without the return of commodity prices and the world ’ s interest rates ?
as latin americans , the answer is yes .
but restoring stagnation is also possible – and only if policymakers acknowledge this and correctly adopt preventive measures that minimize this possibility .
the humanities crisis
new york – in the future of higher education , discussion of the future of higher education suggests an symmetry .
on one hand , a growing number of people worry that , in areas like the twenty-first century “ knowledge economy , ” such as engineering and information technology , the us and many european countries can not afford enough university graduates .
this concern led to the intolerance of education , which allows for the acquisition of practical skills .
on the other hand , some asian countries ’ concerns are that young people entering the labor force have experienced adequate technical training , but lack sufficient “ alternative ” experience .
this concern is growing in the context of an initial effort to expand access to education , integrate into the sense of imagination and imagination .
both directions are rooted in economic problems .
in the united states , most undergraduates are now saddled with the political pressure to pay credit for tuition credits and loan forgiveness ( so-called “ learning ” ) fees and loan forgiveness ( so-called “ learning ” ) .
cutting the traditional four-year four-year four-year meeting to reduce costs for “ 非 ” subjects like the two , thus reducing , and eliminating the literature , philosophy , and 美术 is also discussed .
at the same time , hong kong , singapore , and china , in hong kong , singapore , and china , have called for an extension of university education , enabling students to gain broad humanities education , in the hope of being more inclined to experiment and innovate .
hong kong university , for example , has extended its undergraduate programs from three years to four .
but this narrow view of the economy fails to account for the broader value of the global community .
but the other fact is that strengthening technical training does not provide sufficient foundation for addressing the more abstract but important questions that ultimately guide global policies and decision-making .
for example :
· how can the urgent task of economic development align with the need to limit climate change ?
· what does national sovereignty mean in a world where disease , pollution , and terrorists can cross borders at the same time ?
· are there universal human rights that transcend conflicting religious traditions ?
· how should the limited resources be allocated , thereby giving young people opportunities and hope , while enabling the elderly to get dignity and respect ?
· what is a country ’ s obligations to foreign refugees , whose persecution , poverty , and conflict come to mind ?
· how can we balance individual freedom and collective security ?
answering these questions , advances in science and technology ( for example , new approaches to energy products , surveillance , or online learning ) will be essential .
but ethical and ethical questions have never been fully technical ; they also need to be understood by the understanding of human society and cultural traditions .
science can help us get the life we want , but it can not teach us what kind of life we deserve .
in short , both sides of the current education debate are right to be wrong .
human affairs become increasingly complex , and the demands for ethics are increasingly harsh , so our future generations will need a combination of scientific and humanistic learning – more than ever .
fortunately , promising new models for making education more coherent and broader are emerging .
yale university and the national university of singapore are founded on yale , singapore ’ s liberal arts college .
the new 寄宿制 academy , led by liberal scholars and astronomers , aims to break the boundaries of discipline and enable students to learn from one another .
likewise , the university of canada has encouraged students to use scientific and humanistic knowledge to explore today ’ s most pressing problems .
a similar attempt has been underway for many years in the us .
for example , in north carolina , benjamin franklin , a university of the university of north carolina , has launched a partnership between the university of engineering and the humanities and social sciences to “ foster well educated professionals and make moral decisions , as well as moral decisions . ”
unfortunately , such programs have largely lacked the visibility and influence , unable to determine the education reform .
it is time to abandon the “ either/or ” mindset of science and humanities , and the british chemist and novelist edward snow recognized this as a barrier to human progress .
it is time to find ways to bridge this putative division and broaden .
in an important effort to adapt education institutions to the future , we must not forget the central task of education institutions that have been fully articulated in the past .
to this end , the best thing to do is benjamin franklin , who was both a 文学家 and a scientific innovator who defined education as a quest for “ real virtue . ”
“ the real virtue , ” writes that there is a combination of “ the ability to serve human , native , friend , and family members , and the aspirations of our people ; power ... can be achieved through real learning ; indeed , it should be the goal of all . ”
every generation should have such ambitions .
piketty with chinese characteristics
hong kong – according to thomas piketty ’ s book capital in the twenty-first century , the various mechanisms of capitalism have exacerbated inequality , which is based on the same notion – the approach ( the return on capital ) – that is more rapid than the g ( income gains ) .
while much of the debate about piketty ’ s book is concentrated in advanced economies , this fundamental concept applies to china ’ s experience in recent years , so it is worth exploring further examination .
a fixed capital investment that underpins china ’ s growth model has essentially benefited the entire economy ; for example , improved infrastructure has enabled the rural poor to boost productivity and incomes .
as the investment rate rises to about half of gdp , the share of consumption has fallen to nearly one-third .
recognizing the need to rebalance growth , the government began to increase the minimum wage in 2011 almost twice as fast as real gdp , ensuring that the average household receives more disposable income for consumption .
but real estate prices have grown faster than wages and real-estate profits , leading to higher returns on a small share of property owners ’ assets than china ’ s gdp .
they also benefit from the implicit leverage implied by strong credit growth .
as a result , the top 1 % of china ’ s income earners have accumulated significantly faster than those in other parts of the world , much less the average chinese .
indeed , while the rise of china and other emerging economies has reduced inequality among countries , inequality in the country is pervasive .
piketty ’ s theoretical framework emphasizes several important drivers of this trend .
first , by reducing barriers to trade and investment , globalization creates a “ winner-take-all ” environment , in which technology ’ s most leading players gain market share through economies of scale .
in particular , as the global economy moves to the creation of knowledge-based values , some brands have gained significant traction in high-tech creative ideas , as the global economy boomed .
the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power created some of the “ too big to fail ” economies , thereby undermining systemic stability and undermining smaller players ’ competitiveness .
because real negative interest rates aggravate the financial repression of residential savings , the global financial system effectively strengthens the concentration of income , wealth , and power .
given banks ’ preferred lending to large firms and mortgage borrowers , smes lack access to credit and capital .
another problem is that the low interest rates caused by unconventional monetary policies in advanced countries have led to lower capital losses for long-term pension funds , thereby reducing retirement income .
in many emerging economies ( outsourcing china ) , widespread fear of insufficient retirement income is fueling high household saving rates .
most economists believe that this trend is unsustainable , but disagreement about how to stop it .
the right is supposed to create wealth by more “ market-based ” reforms , while the left supports more government intervention .
in fact , both approaches can play a role , especially in china , where china ’ s government is pursuing a more market-oriented development strategy , but it retains considerable control over the economy .
china needs to strike a balance between policy stability and market-oriented development .
in particular , policies and institutional factors have led to too little pricing for resources , leading to major risks .
china ’ s labor force has driven down labor prices and prevents the economy from shifting to a high-income , 消费 growth model .
likewise , there is no consideration of the low price of natural resources , such as coal , which has contributed to low prices for natural resources , such as coal , fueling excessive resource consumption and causing serious 环境污染问题 .
moreover , policies aimed at stabilizing the exchange rate and maintaining low interest rates have caused capital and risk to be underestimated .
local governments , by artificially selling land to investors through artificially low prices , spurred a large amount of investment to real-estate development , causing real-estate prices to grow at unsustainable rates .
because real estate is the main form of bank loans , financial risks rose sharply .
today , governments are trying to reduce the risks that investors and local governments are taking to reduce the risks that investors and local governments are taking .
but this transformation must be carefully promoted in order to ensure that real estate prices do not collapse , because the rate of non-performing loans would increase significantly , even triggering a massive financial crisis .
in order to ensure long-term social stability , china must promote inclusive wealth creation , such as establishing strong incentives for innovation .
the rise of high-tech companies like huawei , tencent , alibaba , and alibaba is a step in the right direction , even though we need to face a realistic problem that china ’ s most successful technology companies are not working abroad , and that regulation , regulation , and foreign-exchange controls are preventing personal investment from creating new wealth .
financial assets can not pay a sufficient dividend or capital appreciation , leading investors to move toward real estate as a hedge against inflation .
china ’ s leaders are already working to steer the growth model into a new growth model driven by domestic consumption and value-added production .
but the challenges they face are more complex .
the new model will seek to ensure the sustainability of wealth and the spread of wealth , if appropriate in the right field , appropriate time for market forces .
if this effort succeeds , the chinese dream will be realized .
and failure means that inequality will continue to fester worldwide .
china ’ s subprime risks
hong kong – the recent global financial crisis is actually a balance-sheet crisis .
the prolonged period of negative interest rates in the us fueled an unsustainable boom in asset purchases , while high-risk mortgages undermine us national balance sheets .
when liquidity in key interbank markets dried up , vulnerabilities were exposed , and have devastating consequences .
today , the rapid expansion of china ’ s financial institutions – from 92 % of gdp in 2007 to 92 % from 2007 to 2011 – is putting a growing number of people predicting that china will soon experience its own subprime crisis .
is it plausible ?
the first step in assessing china ’ s economic vulnerability is to distinguish between solvency crises and liquidity crises that occur in the absence of sufficient capital to withstand asset-price crashes .
during the asian financial crisis of the 1990 ’ s , some countries experienced a foreign-exchange crisis , devaluation , and high interest rates that wiped out banks and businesses , owing to their lack of adequate reserves .
in the aftermath of japan ’ s asset price crisis in 1989 ( as in the united states in 2008 ) , bank recapitalization and central-bank liquidity support restored market confidence .
the recently released national academy of social sciences ’ s national balance sheet ( http : http : http ) shows that china is unlikely to experience a shortage of foreign-exchange shortages or a dysfunctional bankruptcy crisis .
at the end of 2011 , the central government ’ s net assets amounted to 87 trillion , which accounted for 192 % of gdp , 33 trillion in state-owned enterprises .
moreover , by last year , china ’ s net foreign-exchange position amounted to $ 2 trillion – 21 % of gdp – just below $ 4 trillion .
it is worth noting that china ’ s domestic debt is growing at 215 % of gdp .
since 2008 , soes and so-called local-government financing vehicles have been using loans to finance large fixed investments , while private-sector enterprises are typically borrowing through shadow banking – financing real-estate development .
excessive reliance on bank credit stems from the lack of sufficient access to other financing , particularly relative to underdevelopment , which accounts for only 37 % of gdp , compared to 104 % of gdp in the us .
the chinese nonfinancial corporate debt amounts to 113 % of gdp , compared to 72 % in the us and 99 % in japan .
but , because china ’ s large enterprises are skewed toward soes or local entities , their debt is actually domestic sovereign debt .
without soes and local debt , china ’ s total debt/gdp ratio is only 53 % , well below that of 80 % in the us and japan ’ s 226 % , so there are plenty of room for debt-equity swaps to address domestic debt .
of course , china ’ s leaders need to continue to pursue significant fiscal reforms , including improving the revenue of the central and local governments .
in the long run , the government must put more stringent regulation in order to ensure the sustainability of local-government infrastructure investment , and not entirely dependent on land sales .
during the transition , the burden of adjustment was on monetary policy , and the challenge is particularly challenging given the “ tightening ” of structural liquidity faced by the more productive sectors .
from 2007 to 2011 , china ’ s currency supply increased by 116 % , while its foreign-exchange reserves increased by 180 % .
the foreign exchange reserves have been recycled more than 20 % of the statutory reserve requirements on bank deposits .
as a result , large firms – most of them soes , who enjoy considerable financial subsidies and liquidity – received 43 % of total bank lending in 2011 ; and small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) were given financial repression , including higher borrowing costs and tighter liquidity .
this highlights two fundamental structural issues .
first , large soes and local governments must be reined in , because they reduce the return on capital .
second , more capital must be channeled toward small and medium-size enterprises and regions where growth is faster and more likely to create jobs and innovation .
in other words , interest-rate reform must be pursued alongside capital-market reforms that would make it easier to obtain credit for more productive sectors .
only if the value created by innovation exceeds the value of the excess capacity of excess capacity , china will be able to move from an export-led economy to a 推动型 economy .
in short , despite a strong state balance sheet and ample central-bank liquidity , china faces a localized subprime problem , which would lead to a partial liquidity shortage for the sake of excessive lending .
one promising move is the central bank ’ s recent release of €1 trillion in liquidity by providing direct loans to the development bank , which has helped to connect the development bank to informal investment .
unlike the fed , china ’ s central bank has not purchased subprime mortgages directly .
the key to success will be to manage the sequence of liquidity injections and the sequence of interest rates , so that the move to address local subprime debts does not trigger asset-price depreciation .
if china is to complete structural reforms , it – and the rest of the world – will be able to avoid the consequences of a hard landing .
reforming china ’ s dual-track economy
hong kong – the chinese economy is growing again in discussions about the risks of a hard landing in the chinese economy .
the housing bubble , local government debt , and a struggling shadow banking are deemed the source of potential financial risk , making it difficult to challenge the challenge of rising labor costs , credit excessive credit , severe pollution , endemic corruption , and rising international competition and international competition .
each turning point of reform is accompanied by potential additional risks .
any strategy to address the risks of economic slowdown must account for the dual nature of china ’ s economy .
on one hand , some of china ’ s cities are increasingly modernizing and integrating the global economy .
china ’ s most dynamic 17 cities have entered the world bank ’ s high income , which accounts for 11 % of national population and 30 % of gdp .
on the other hand , half of china ’ s population remains in rural areas , with most of the income coming from agriculture .
according to mastercard , 25 % of consumer spending in china continues to use cash , suggesting that china ’ s informal economy is more informal than it is predicted .
this duality has positive implications for china ’ s economic prospects .
while the main driver of economic growth over the last few decades has been the region ’ s outward-looking manufacturing sector , the country ’ s rural and inward-looking cities will be a strong engine of growth as domestic consumption increases .
in other words , china ’ s economic fundamentals are larger and more diverse than many realize , which means that china ’ s potential growth momentum is difficult to restrain .
this feature of the chinese economy , as well as china ’ s $ 3.8 trillion foreign-exchange reserves and large ( though declining ) current-account surpluses , has left the chinese economy dependent on foreign saving and investment .
thus , local governments ’ debt and non-performing loans are just the problem of redistribution in domestic debt .
the only real international spillovers , stemming from tighter monetary and fiscal austerity policies , may reduce gdp growth , thereby depressing china ’ s demand for commodities .
this would hurt commodity-exporting emerging economies , and many of these economies are currently faced with a poor flight from the fed ’ s monetary-policy reversal .
in china ’ s dual-track economy , china must adjust its market-oriented reform strategy to ensure that the new systemic risks are not expected , while overcoming a major reform of the vested interests that the vested interests needed to create a level playing field .
to achieve this , china will need to address a two-track economy in the current economic development : a two-track credit system and a dual-track benchmark .
as a result , large soes and local governments have become the only borrowers capable of acquiring enough cheap credit to invest in large-scale infrastructure .
since the 2008 global financial crisis weakened china ’ s export growth , private firms have since moved to 导向 production and services , particularly the real-estate sector , which turned to the boom .
this shift , together with a current-account surplus and a massive infrastructure investment , has increased upward pressure on domestic interest rates .
while the authorities can control official interest rates , unofficial interest rates are beginning to rise inexorably , fueling rapid expansion of shadow banking .
the official credit of easy credit and cheap commercial banks has soared , and the average price of housing in 70 large and medium-size cities has risen from 每平米 in 2002 to 5791 , a decade after the decade ’ s 每平米 .
it should be noted that emerging industrial economies , such as japan , hong kong , taiwan , and south korea , have increased their economic growth in the early days of their economic development , with rising real productivity growth , based on credit booms , based on credit booms .
it is not surprising that the productivity of the first 17 cities in the 17 countries of the country ’ s best-performing 17 cities ( hong kong ’ s per capita gdp is three times higher than in hong kong ) , which is not surprising .
yet other 一线 and underperforming cities face labor and capital outflows , and their housing prices often become a glorified ghost ghost towns .
in pursuing interest-rate liberalization , china ’ s goal should be to isolate between formal and informal interest rates , which requires both macro-level and micro-level approaches .
specifically , china needs to reform the microfinance system to facilitate the market-driven process of creative adjustment , such as through institutionalized bankruptcy procedures that help to deal with ghost towns and failed real-estate projects , thereby minimizing the macroeconomic disruption .
relying on tightening credit to limit macro risk makes the problem more complicated .
a broad structural adjustment and deepening reform requires a robust monetary policy and stable inflation expectations , but , in good times , tighter monetary policy will affect the process of economic adjustment .
indeed , the rapid slowdown in the supply of money , from about 25 % in 2009 to around 14 % today , has been accompanied by rapid expansion of shadow banking .
at the end of 2012 , shadow banking accounted for 24 % of total credit , with interest rates reaching 10-15 % higher than official rates .
this unexpected increase in the cost of market orientation hurts the real economy .
unless inefficient borrowers exit markets or declare bankruptcy , they will continue to distort resource allocation , crowding out more productive firms .
thus , the key to the merger ’ s interest rate and credit system is reforming the credit allocation mechanism , providing more funds to well-performing projects and imposing various hard constraints on borrowers performing poorly performing borrowers .
this will inevitably trigger some defaults and shape the quality of banks ’ loan portfolios , but these efforts and costs are worth a more balanced , healthier economy .
harnessing china ’ s competitive streak
hong kong – china ’ s state council recently issued the 若干意见 reforms of capital markets in 2020 , with two key objectives : “ safeguard market order , fair and fair market order , and the legal protection of investor investors in particular . ”
to make these goals , policymakers will need to weigh their market autonomy against government regulation , innovation , and stability , and to accelerate the balance between reform and pragmatism , and to accelerate reform and pragmatism .
can china achieve these balance ?
from a policy perspective , the goal should be to strike a balance between competition ( spurring economic growth but also destabilizing reforms ) with cooperation ( which promises long-term social solidarity but also risk stagnation ) .
in the process , china ’ s leaders must consider three layers of competition : competition between firms , competition between sectors , and competition among citizens , businesses , and countries .
the implementation of the corporate competition framework has made progress .
in 2008 , the government enacted “ antitrust law , ” aimed at preventing companies from forming barriers that impede competition or “ monopoly ” contracts , minimizing market behavior , and discourage mergers and acquisitions that could discourage or overshoot competition .
but market competition in the market for three major players ( soes , private firms , and foreign firms ) is a complex task .
private firms are frustrated with the privileges that soes enjoy , and foreign-owned enterprises complain that they are at a disadvantage in competing with their local companies .
the onus of responsibility among regulators is more complex .
but , more than a decade after the accession of the world trade organization , foreign banks account for only 2 % of china ’ s market share – a point that suggests that china needs to improve access , openness , and level playing field .
this challenge is exacerbated by technological progress and regulatory arbitrage .
e-commerce platforms like alibaba have not only eroded banks ’ payment business ; they also started to provide wealth-management products .
regulatory arbitrage has spurred the shadow banking sector to compete actively with traditional financial institutions for wealth-management and lending business .
regulatory arbitrage stems from the absence of regulatory authority resulting from the difficulties of regulatory arbitrage , which often delays market development and institutional reforms , because coordination among regulators is not easy .
for example , the chinese bond market , at least for at least five agencies and the overlap , impedes its development .
the best example of china ’ s benign competition is in cities .
china has 287 , the median population of 3.7 million , and the median per capita gdp of $ 5,800 .
16 million cities have already crossed the world bank ’ s high threshold of income ( annual per capita income above $ 616 ) , and four cities – beijing , shanghai , guangzhou , and shenzhen – have become global metropolises .
these cities are key to china ’ s ability to cross the middle-income trap .
the secret of china ’ s economic success since 1979 is the easing of central planning , and the separation of powers to cities , markets , and private firms has sought , innovation , and growth .
because it is difficult to know which reforms will require reform or elimination of the old system , this process is benefiting from the central level of local mandates , which are more favorable to try and discovery through the creation of market rules .
at the same time , in order to stabilize and sound stability , the devolution of mandates has been accompanied by the central government ’ s supervisory and certain market watchdogs .
this balance of horizontal competition and vertical regulation of vertical regulation is crucial to boosting chinese cities ’ success and dynamism .
but this balance of governance is not perfect .
indeed , excessive competition among cities has led to disruptive imbalances , owing to the important impact of urban gdp growth on local officials .
local autonomy can help to implement bold measures to raise productivity , such as agricultural land transfer , financing infrastructure projects , and public-private partnerships with state-owned enterprises and manufacturing firms to compete for services and manufacturing .
but cities compete to imitate one another ’ s growth model , also causing severe environmental pollution , excessive local debt , excess infrastructure , rising inequality , depletion of farmland , depletion of farmland , and abuse of property rights and property rights .
increased competition has transformed china into the world ’ s second-largest economy .
but the current uneven growth model is unsustainable .
the task now is to rebalance the pattern of competition – namely , the negative externalities that address both governments and markets .
the central government ’ s recent push for some judicial justice in local governments reinforces property rights , which is an important step in the direction of reform .
but it is not enough .
let the market decide resource allocation and ensure that all participants play a fair level , requiring clear competition rules for governments , which may require a strong “ competition committee ” to provide support .
there is no good competition for fair , fair , and fair rules .
this is the real challenge facing china ’ s leaders today .
if they succeed in responding to this challenge , china ’ s access to high-income status will be only a matter of time .
the 政府职能 government
beijing – this year ’ s china development forum has made clear how china ’ s leaders are prepared to achieve “ china dream , ” as president xi jinping described as a “ national and national power , a national revival , and people ’ s happiness . ”
last november ’ s third plenum of the 18th central committee in the 18th central committee of the communist party of china ( ccp ) produced more than 330 major reforms in 60 areas by 2020 , reforming the breadth , depth , and complexity of the 60 areas .
achieving china ’ s shift from an economic model based on manufacturing and exports to a consumption model driven by consumption and services – inclusive , environmental sustainability , and more than 13 million jobs – is an extremely formidable task .
beyond that , the chinese government is facing the challenge of maintaining financial and social stability , and it is difficult to manage the world ’ s largest bureaucracy .
consider the government ’ s fiscal position last summer .
the national audit office needs to mobilize 55 employees to censor the government ’ s books , including the central government and 31 个省 and autonomous cities , five 直辖市 , 391 municipalities , 778 county , and 33 rural communities .
the entire survey covers 62 government agencies and institutions , 机构 institutions , and 68 public finances , 2 public corporations , 支持 public finance , and 其他 other institutions – a total of 73 billion ( $ 73 billion ) , combined with 债务 debt .
clearly , the governance of china ’ s public sector is very different from the west , whose structural model is the rule of law , democracy , and market .
while major reforms have led to a dramatic change in the country for 35 years , the private sector has become a leading contributor to job creation , but much of it remains to be improved – a notable example of the state-owned sector , especially local governments and state-owned enterprises ( soes ) .
one way to understand the complexity of china ’ s governance system is to examine the matrix of relationships between institutions and the so-called “ 条条块块 . ”
the “ legion of tiao ” is the vertical system of the central government and the bureaucracy through the state sector and the bureaucracy , including the national ndrc , the other key ministries , and the appointment and promotion of key ministries , and the macroeconomic tools , particularly fiscal , monetary , exchange-rate , and regulatory policies .
kuai kuai refers to the high level of competition between local entities and the central government in this regard .
to achieve genuine stability , china ’ s leaders must strike a delicate balance between tiao tiao control and kuai autonomy .
but this is a tall order that tends to ease not only the rapid growth of local economies and improvements in public services , but also the risks of rising imbalances and the risk of overheating , owing to the tendency of excessive fixed investment .
so the central government has to restart central control , and the emergency stops .
if china ’ s economy is a car , national leaders have been 交替 and brake .
the latest reforms suggest that the chinese government is finally trying to fine-tune its policies .
the reform program will concentrate some responsibilities on the central board , such as resistance to vested interests ; and expanding local autonomy in others , including licensing procedures and programs .
the government also established a free-trade zone ( low tariff , lower customs barriers , and less administrative intervention ) to strengthen the market ’ s decisive role in resource allocation .
this effort has eased unnecessary constraints on local institutions , with market and institutional innovations .
these innovations , together with increased transparency and adoption of cutting-edge technologies , are likely to curb rent-seeking and corruption , while boosting productivity and increasing employment .
the latest decision by governments to reform the household registration system will widen the results further , making workers and private proprietors an opportunity to choose where to live , work , and invest .
as china ’ s leaders made clear at the third plenum of the eighteenth century , removing arbitrary tiao control can enable cities and localities to develop more than their own comparative advantages .
china ’ s gradual openness will make it increasingly attractive for companies and individuals to pursue more attractive opportunities abroad , which will complicate china ’ s governance system further .
indeed , in response to markets , resources , talent , and global competition , china and the global governance system will need two-way interaction .
china ’ s leaders have shown that they know the need to implement modern management techniques , and understand that doing so requires updating and 调整 the central control tools that have long depended .
if the right adjustments are made , china ’ s governance system will effectively address issues like air and water pollution , food security , energy efficiency , and social inequality , and ensure that china ’ s long-term prosperity is .
this process is just beginning , but it is a good start .
great cities and ghost towns
hong kong – many observers like to associate the 无人居住 modern “ ghost towns ” as a sign of the impending collapse of china ’ s economy , often funded by risky local-government financing platforms .
in 2012 , the venture capitalist william 詹韦 argued that economic development is a tripartite game involving countries , innovative private entrepreneurs , and financial capitalism , which will inevitably produce overshooting , thereby creating conditions for the next wave of invention and output growth .
the us also experienced ghost towns following the emergence of railways in the mid-nineteenth century , mining , and industrialization .
but the us has not suffered from a systemic crisis that transcends national borders .
without large-scale infrastructure investment , especially investment in transport , it is unlikely to produce the productivity gains that make america the world ’ s industrial power .
while the process includes massive creative destruction , rapid economic growth offset the loss of overcapacity .
likewise , given the history of history , china ’ s ghost towns will simply be 坑洼 on the road to development .
major infrastructure investments financed mainly by local-government financing platforms are likely to be remembered as a key contribution to china ’ s economic modernization .
of course , infrastructure investment does not necessarily translate into economic development .
new infrastructure – and the on-the-job training that enabled chinese workers to manage these facilities effectively – must make china productive enough to offset the value of excess fixed assets , which can be offset by the destruction of excess fixed assets .
in this sense , china ’ s prospects are promising .
as it stands , china ’ s infrastructure investment amounts to only about 240 % of gdp , more than half of japan ’ s 551% – and a much younger population .
china ’ s per capita capital stock remains below $ 10,000 , compared to more than $ 90,000 in the us , with japan exceeding $ 200,000 ( in 2011 prices ) .
moreover , roughly 1 % of china ’ s population – the 120 million people – is moving to cities every year .
the innovative modern infrastructure needed to improve people ’ s lives , increase energy efficiency , and minimize pollution has huge needs – especially given the central role of urbanization in economic modernization and productivity gains .
although lgfvs have some intrinsic risks , owing to low transparency and government regulation , they have been integrated into china ’ s modernization process so far .
indeed , they have emerged in the early 1990s to enable shanghai and guangdong to upgrade their infrastructure and industrialize .
both cities were constrained by technical and institutional boundaries and the scarcity of foreign and domestic credit .
by working with the world bank and the development bank , shanghai and guangdong have created innovative institutional structures that provide a legal , accounting , and managerial partnership for stakeholders to enable specific infrastructure projects , particularly the legal and accounting tools of modern companies .
in other words , lgfvs are inherently modern platforms .
this institutional innovation enabled the reconstruction of hundreds of chinese cities , with the airport , highways , high-speed rail , and advanced communications connected to the advanced telecommunication system .
with the support of these structures and linkages , one-third of china ’ s cities are already in per capita gdp .
moreover , the initial local-government financing platform was not affected by maturity mismatches , because they were financed by long-term 国开行 loans , where local governments collect taxes from the completion of the completed infrastructure to cover the cost of their operations .
thus , lgfvs also helped to build networks linking local markets to global value chains .
but , as always , success has always led to excess .
the massive government stimulus in the aftermath of the global financial crisis prompted local governments to pursue infrastructure projects that are based on cheap bank loans and land , with remote cities seeking to imitate cities like shanghai , beijing , or shenzhen .
in a sense , this is a positive development .
after all , closing the infrastructure gap has expanded the scope of individual and corporate decisions where to live or build factories and offices .
but there is a key factor behind the infrastructure boom : the belief that local governments can easily access cheap credit , cheap land , and rising demand .
when the market tightened in 2011 , the outlook for many projects was no longer bright , spurring local-government financing platforms to seek credit opportunities for the shadow banking sector , leading to a new challenge to borrowing costs , as well as new challenges from the market .
at the end of 2011 , china ’ s outstanding local-government debt totaled $ 29 trillion , while its land and fixed assets totaled $ 90 trillion , implying that even if assets are worth less than half , local governments remain insolvent .
that leaves the debt burden and distribution .
to address this problem , china ’ s government has announced fiscal reform , aimed at further redrawing the central and local revenues , particularly in allowing local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds .
china ’ s ghost towns and local-government debt are not harbingers of doom , but a bumpy bumps on the road to advanced economies , and the excesses are bound to be corrected , or through the market .
in fact , overcoming these challenges in the long run will create a more resilient economy .
fighting for ?
hong kong – the eighteenth-century german military strategist carl von clausewitz defined war as a continuation of the country ’ s history , as was ancient chinese strategist sun tzu , who believed that ensuring peace means preparing for violent conflict .
as the world becomes increasingly unstable , such a deep understanding of the war ’ s resurgence , the ongoing chaos in the middle east , and escalating tensions in east asia , this understanding is important .
wars have traditionally been fought around territory .
but territorial definitions include five dimensions : land , air , ocean , space , and the latest networks .
this type of war reflects the threat that the world faces today .
but the most important question is the fact that the specific trigger for war , targeting , and conflict will be largely determined by five factors : faith , ethnicity , culture , climate , and currency .
indeed , these factors are dominating global conflicts .
first , faith and religion are one of the most common motives of history , and the twenty-first century is no exception .
consider the rise of jihadist groups , including the islamic state ( isis ) and the islamic state ( isis ) , which still lives in iraq and syria , and boko haram , which has carried out the barbaric , bombardment , and murder groups .
there are also violent clashes between buddhists and muslims in myanmar and southern thailand , and violent clashes between islamists and catholics in the philippines .
the second factor – race , representation , and growing ethnic tensions in europe , turkey , india , and elsewhere – is a second factor .
the causes of these tensions are immigration and employment competition , which , in africa , can not be sustained by the colonial powers , where tribal and ethnic groups try to carve out their own territorial space .
and ukraine ’ s conflict has fueled long-simmering frustration with russia ’ s long-suffering peoples after the soviet union ’ s collapse .
the third potential factor in conflict is the fundamental cultural divide created by different societies ’ unique histories and institutional systems .
although the us and europe account for only one-eighth of the world ’ s population , they have long dominated economic dominance – roughly half the world ’ s gdp – and have disproportionate international influence .
but , with the rise of new economic powers , they are increasingly challenging the west , whose goal is not just market share and resources ; they will also seek to inject them into the global order ( or soft power ) .
of course , resource competition will also be important , as is the fourth factor , with climate change linked to climate change .
many countries and regions face severe water stress stress , and , as climate change causes natural disasters and extreme weather events like drought , stress continues to worsen .
similarly , with forests and marine resources , food competition can lead to conflict .
these conflicts stand directly counter to the gospel of globalization , which is supposed to allow countries to access food and energy , thereby enabling countries to concentrate their comparative advantages .
if emerging conflicts and competitive pressures lead to economic sanctions or the obstruction of important trade routes , the resulting balkanization of global trade would significantly offset the benefits of globalization .
moreover , social unrest , which is often accompanied by economic strife , could lead to a country divided into smaller regions , and in terms of value or resources .
in some ways , this scenario is happening , and iraq and syria are split into sectarian or tribal areas .
since the global economic crisis , expansionary monetary policies pursued by central banks in advanced economies have led to massive , volatile flows of capital across emerging economies , causing severe instability in these countries , fueling a “ currency war . ”
the 超 use of regulatory and tax rights is reinforcing the view that money can be a weapon .
for example , the united states , with its extra advantage in issuing the world ’ s major reserve currency , is demanding subsidiaries ’ subsidiaries in the us , and the international banking system , which would require a dollar resolution account , is a total of the global banking sector .
us regulators impose a 重罚 on breaching the rules – a recent $ 8.9 billion settlement in bnp paribas – which has led european banks to rethink the costs and profitability of compliance .
meanwhile , us courts have forced argentina to default again .
but perhaps the strongest signal is that targeted sanctions against russia ’ s oil , finance , defense , and 科技产业 , and russian officials .
by doing so , the us and its allies sent clear signals to anyone who might oppose us policy : best not to use the dollar and the dollar bank account .
already , some financial activities have moved into the shadow banking system , which is reflected in the use of bitcoin and other currencies that are not subject to us regulation .
a recent example of the search for alternative us initiatives is that the brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) will establish the brics and the contingent reserve arrangements .
the problem in the us is that , in this case , the disaffected are the five major emerging economies , using resources that exceed the bretton woods institutions ’ existing resources .
the brics ’ transactions are virtually impossible to use in dollars .
us president barack obama recently declared that the problem is not whether the us will continue to lead , but how it continues to lead .
but , in the five factors that the faith , race , culture , climate , and currency , the real world has become increasingly estranged from the us-led international order , obama may be overly optimistic .
indeed , in the coming war , no one seems to be sure who should follow .
kermit ’ s bankers
hong kong – sesame street ’ s kermit , 科米 kermit , once lamented that “ the great bargain is easy . ”
today , this sentiment is also being used to describe the current global economy – and thus to the green economy – to the problem .
last september , the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world does not change its growth model , global temperatures will rise by 4-6 celsius , far exceeding the 2º celsius threshold that was supposedly “ safe . ”
this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to intensify its political , economic , and financial leaders in january to challenge a new global climate change agreement .
high-level agreements , though important , will have little impact if they fail to invest heavily in areas such as smart grids , energy storage , and renewable energy .
in fact , the international energy agency estimates that , from now to 2050 , $ 1 trillion will be needed to put the world economy on a sustainable path .
although this looks like a big sum , it amounts to just 1 % of global gdp and less than 0.3 % of global financial assets .
moreover , since 2007 , central banks ’ central banks have shown that they can spend more than $ 1 trillion a year on balance sheets without triggering inflation .
that is , the world can afford the transition to a green economy .
nonetheless , last year , green investment amounted to only $ 254 billion – a shortfall that implies nearly $ 750 billion per year .
to remedy this gap , advanced-country governments are using limited public funds to promote private-sector investment .
meanwhile , developing countries ’ contribution to green finance is rapidly increasing , and domestic clean-energy financing in non-oecd countries surpassed oecd countries in 2008 .
but the problem remains that the current market is the market ’ s ability to adjust to climate change .
what really needs to be done is not money , but the political will to address market failures , which will require fundamental shifts in investors ’ measurement of economic activity , institutions , and policies .
the return on private capital ( profits and losses ) plus the return on “ social ” capital must be positive .
current gdp measures ignore the negative external role based on fossil fuels , leading to massive wastage of pollution and non-renewable natural resources .
without full accounting costs , some of the worst economic activities will continue to perform very profitably .
successful transitions to the green economy require new metrics .
the good news is that some countries have begun to calculate the hidden costs of co2 emissions .
in the us , the “ social cost ” of carbon has increased from $ 99 per ton to $ 35 .
in china , releasing pm2.5 levels has played a critical role in mobilizing public support for addressing air pollution .
we now need a similar measure to measure other forms of natural capital destruction , such as deforestation , bleaching , wastewater , and soil degradation .
after establishing these indicators , they must be incorporated into international accounting standards for private and public financial statements .
some companies are already releasing annual reports on full detail of the full details of corporate social and environmental impact , and will eventually reach a full report .
but moral change is not enough to achieve real change .
to prevent inaction , policymakers must take advantage of all tools and tools , including legislation , reporting guidelines , taxation , incentives , and public education .
financial regulators in emerging economies like bangladesh and china have already moved toward the right direction , introducing rules that promote financial inclusion .
china ’ s green credit banking guidelines require financial institutions to consider the environmental risks of lending portfolios .
finally , we need to discuss the merits and limitations of the current monetary policy and financial regulation honestly .
central banks , such as quantitative easing and near-zero interest rates , should be subsidizing green projects for low-cost financing .
instead , they have increased the profits of a larger financial institution , and credit to small and medium-size enterprises is severely constrained .
ironically , regulations aimed at strengthening financial stability tend to reward short-termism ( higher liquidity ) , rather than increasing the risk weights and costs of long-term projects ( most green are long-term projects ) .
regulators must recognize that if the real economy is unsustainable , bank reforms will not protect people ’ s lives , let alone protect the financial system .
adding green investment to 0.5 % would be enough to cover the annual financing gap .
the reason for the global financial crisis is that we ignore externalities ( shadow prices and institutions ) , allowing instability and injustice to proliferate .
building a more stable , sustainable future will require the relationship between policies , prices , and incentives .
as comey put it , “ greening is not easy ” , but the problem is that if we do not , the outcome is the result .
the 煤王 climate challenge
washington , dc – in the united nations climate change talks , which are currently underway in warsaw , coal is a major topic for dialogue – and rightly so .
indeed , the world needs such a discussion .
the latest discoveries by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) suggest that we are running out of rapidly running out of our carbon “ budget ” – a trend that can be emitted at a time when there will still be significant opportunities to keep global warming below 2º celsius .
according to the ipcc , reducing global temperatures on the basis of pre-industrial levels would mean that the world emits only about 1,000 liters of carbon ( GtC ) .
by 2011 , we had emitted more than half of all 碳量 .
when it comes to tolerable co2 emissions , coal is the budget buster .
just this week , a group of 27 prominent scientists published a joint statement to point out that all known fossil-fuel reserves will produce 800 carbon dioxide , or $ 1 billion , with coal accounting for more than half .
in short , if the world ’ s current technologies are known to be known as the current world ’ s technology , it will likely increase global temperatures far beyond 2ºc .
many governments and financial institutions acknowledge this .
in recent months , the bank , the european investment bank , and the united states have introduced new policies to limit new coal-fired power projects , unless they capture and store co2 emissions .
five nordic countries have joined the us treasury and stopped using public funds to support new coal-fired power plants , and other countries may soon follow suit .
this fall , the environmental protection agency has proposed emissions standards for new plants , with conventional coal-fired power plants no longer available – an important step toward reducing carbon pollution and stimulating innovation .
likewise , china has begun to focus on the high health costs associated with burning coal , and the three coastal provinces will cease to develop new coal-fired power plants , according to its latest governance plans .
the chinese authorities have also developed policies that reduce coal ’ s share of energy .
against this background , the world ’ s coal federation is meeting this week , and it is at the center of warsaw – and , indeed , the negotiations that are being negotiated at the end of the global climate agreement in warsaw .
the wca is calling for “ 高效能 , 低 coal combustion technology ” to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions from coal-fired power plants worldwide .
but this approach would still consume too much carbon dioxide .
even the most modern and advanced conventional coal-fired power plants emit more than twice as much carbon dioxide per unit of power per unit of electricity per unit of electricity and more than twice as efficient gas-fired power plants .
and coal plants remain strong globally .
the world resources institute estimates that around 1,200 coal-fired power projects around the world have been planned , with total building capacity totaling more than 1,400 gigawatts .
if it is built , the world ’ s remaining budget will put a large share of the world ’ s high-carbon infrastructure to high-carbon infrastructure for 40-50 years .
according to the international energy agency , according to the current world energy agency , the current trend toward coal will rise by an 升高 .
that will be an immensely irreversible change for life in the planet .
that is why the oecd secretary-general points to the need to stop building traditional coal-fired power plants .
the government can use more cost-effective technologies for electricity generation .
in many places , renewable energy ( such as solar and wind power ) has been competitive with fossil fuels , and can quickly expand .
moreover , most economic models lack the externalities associated with coal and carbon pollution .
according to a recent report by Trucost , for example , the damage caused by global coal power in areas like climate change and air pollution amounts to about $ 1 trillion .
many coal-fired power plants will be uncompetitive if they are required to internalize these costs .
of course , coal provides a reliable power for millions of people – a transition to low-carbon technologies overnight .
we need to expand access to these technologies quickly , while helping those who depend on the coal industry .
we need to maintain enthusiasm for climate change , but we must also adopt a pragmatic approach to addressing climate change .
but the coal industry must do so as well .
participants at the wca meeting this week should commit to more measures to help ensure that carbon emissions limit their security .
this would help to signal to the world that the coal industry really understands the scientific impact of current energy use , and is willing to assume greater responsibility in the fight against climate change .
we need to work on both sides of the world to build a fair , ambitious 2015 global climate agreement .
let us work together to create a safe and efficient low-carbon economy .
the chinese bureaucratic earthquake
beijing – the fallout from the big earthquake in sichuan has gone away , and it is time to look at the impact of the big earthquake on china ’ s political system .
has the earthquake fostered a new , positive political force that could accelerate reform ?
that happened before .
after all , a sharp political change in the country ’ s top leaders , such as the fall of “ four ” and deng xiaoping ’ s consolidation of power , was shortly after the 1976 earthquake in 1976 .
with prime minister wen jiabao ’ s efforts at disaster relief and president hu jintao ’ s lackluster political record , one might have been tempted to imagine that the earthquake may have changed the balance of the ccp ’ s highest balance , with the liberal forces that wen represented .
but the idea was naïve .
unlike 30 years ago , there is no strong demand for political reform in china ’ s large bureaucratic system .
at the time , mao ’ s cultural revolution forced a large number of his revolutionary comrades toward reform .
in today ’ s china , most bureaucrats like the status quo , and have enough resources to protect themselves .
although wen has won popular support for the earthquake victims , he remains isolated in official circles .
and , though hu is hard to hide his incompetence , the bureaucrats are not shy .
after all , they do not want someone who has both the capacity and the others to lead .
but the sichuan earthquake was not entirely irrelevant to china ’ s political process .
wen ’ s bureaucratic grip on the bureaucracy has long sought to deal with the media by expanding the media ’ s openness and transparency .
he tried to use the beijing olympics to give foreign media unprecedented freedom , but the bureaucrats managed to reverse his decision .
the earthquake gave wen an unexpected second chance .
he used television and his extraordinary performance to prove that modern media and information tools can limit china ’ s bureaucracy .
this precedent is difficult to reverse , and it will have a profound positive impact on china ’ s political process .
this earthquake , together with the media transparency that followed , makes bureaucrats more accountable .
thousands of people have died , including nearly 10,000 schoolchildren , and their parents are hard to mollify .
millions of people have been displaced and must be resettled for years .
bureaucrats must not spend an arbitrary spending on their largesse and national relief funds .
as a result , a new political culture conducive to accountability may have a realistic opportunity to grow .
but this is not to say that china will produce a kind of bold and capable political leadership .
indeed , i believe that china ’ s future leaders are more likely to come from china ’ s burgeoning , but still limited , civil society .
although the ccp uses different means to suppress their development , the sichuan earthquake shows that the ccp can not eliminate non-governmental organizations as a social force .
the earthquake gives them an opportunity to demonstrate that an unprecedented number of people have an opportunity to see this nascent civil society as a positive force in their interests .
there is also a more unknown force , which may produce a new generation of political leaders : the growing christian believers are now estimated to be 20 million .
in china , there is a growing number of people , with many people who believe that a growing number of people are in the communist party ’ s bureaucracy , in addition to the chinese communist party ’ s bureaucracy , and that it is becoming even missionary .
in most of today ’ s closed environment , they are largely unaware of their own political skills and vision .
more open and transparent public environments will help awaken their sense of political mission .
but we must ask : when will major political change arrive ?
wen ’ s recent book in sichuan , the sichuan museum of sichuan , was evidently convinced that the chinese will suffer more pain than they can achieve political progress .
this may be right , but i am convinced that a new generation of political leaders can grow in a more open information environment .
and we must hope that all leaders will refuse to use their people ’ s lives as bargaining chips in the coming showdown .
an economic agenda for italy
milan – at the end of the month , italian voters are approaching the next government , expecting the new government to provide more jobs and a more equitable platform of economic activity – and other european partners expect it to implement structural reforms and streamline fiscal consolidation .
so what should the new government ’ s economic-policy agenda be ?
in order to reduce current public debt and minimize painful adjustment processes , italy desperately needs economic growth – a problem that has eluded policymakers in recent years .
indeed , italy ’ s average gdp growth has been at an anemic 0.5 % since joining the european economic and monetary union in 1999 , well below the eurozone ’ s 1.5 % average .
since the global financial crisis erupted , growth has fallen to -1.2 % , and this year is expected to be negative , while the eurozone average growth rate is -0.2 % .
the biggest challenge facing the new government is to implement successful reforms – a reform that has kept the economy behind other neighbors after years of bad policy and paralysis .
this calls for increased investment in innovation and human capital .
from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity in italy grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd .
and since 2001 , unit labor costs have been higher than real gdp and employment growth , which has undermined their economies ’ competitiveness relative to developing countries .
as a result , italy ’ s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % over the last decade .
persistently weak labor-productivity growth has led to such a situation – even if real wages are stagnant or falling , and unit labor costs have not fallen .
indeed , despite a 1.3 % drop in real wages in 2011 , unit labor costs have never changed .
to address these problems , italy ’ s new leaders must separate the labor force from contributing to productivity growth and total factor productivity .
according to the oecd ’ s forecast , lower regulatory costs and more effective public management – based on measures taken by mario monti ’ s last government – could increase the average annual growth rate of 意大利 % by 2020 .
likewise , labor-market reforms , educational attainment , and increased human capital will contribute to an additional 4 % growth in the coming decade .
moreover , italian policymakers should strive to boost female labor-force participation – which is now 49 % and the lowest in the oecd .
doing so would allow the national average to increase by 1 % by 2030 .
meanwhile , fiscal adjustment remains essential for italy ’ s short- and long-term stability .
italy ’ s new leadership must sustain this progress .
despite positive economic developments now , the road ahead remains bumpy .
to guide the future of the future requires italy to build trust between eu members and international investors .
the new prime minister will need to persuade germany , financial markets , and the european council that italy is a reliable partner .
the ability to refinance government debt and reduce spending is essential to strengthening public finances and promoting gdp growth .
moreover , attracting more direct investment is important , given that capital inflows are now below 70 % below pre-crisis levels ; capital outflows exceed capital inflows , and italy has become a net capital exporter .
“ selling ” italy in europe requires not only the leaders of other countries ’ leaders , or in london , but also in london ’ s financial institutions .
italy ’ s leaders should actively join business diplomacy , using the embassies and trade agencies to promote their own global advocacy , while establishing strong bilateral relations with other eu member states , particularly in southern spain .
at the same time , a new generation of leaders will need to “ sell ” europe in italy , with euroskepticism now spreading across europe .
according to the pew research center , just 30 % of italians are positively positive about the euro .
in northern italy , where per capita income is three million ( $ 4.5 million ) per capita ( $ 4.5 million ) , it is suspicious of eu membership .
they believe that they have paid a lot of costs , but did not benefit ?
moreover , fear of structural recession is pervasive throughout the country .
the crisis has lasted long , and people are tired .
the unemployment rate has risen to a record 11.2 % , which means that 35 % of young people are unemployed .
and the tax burden has been more than 40 % of gdp since 1990 , and now stands at about 43 % of gdp .
if public services do not fall below those of northern europe , the tax burden on this level of convergence is manageable .
sweden , denmark , and finland , for example , spend more than $ 300 per capita on public health spending , compared to just $ 175 in italy , implying that italy ’ s households must pay for 20 % of all health-care spending .
moreover , italy spends about 4.5 % of gdp on education , while the nordic countries spend more than 6 % of gdp .
as a result , italian students score significantly less on international student assessments than students in other oecd countries .
italy ’ s new government must demonstrate leadership and demonstrate a vision of a stable economy toward stable growth , avoiding the decline in the economy and reducing mounting social tensions .
most important , economic revitalization depends on the next government ’ s willingness and ability to respond to institutional weaknesses , which have made concerted action increasingly urgent .
europe ’ s energy tax
bush ’ s disastrous war in iraq has put europe in a pickle .
the us has long been europe ’ s protector .
now , given the war that europe does not want to be involved , europe has been weakened .
iraq ’ s chaos has emboldened iran , and iran is far more dangerous for europe than iraq .
and , because the us is bogged down in iraq , russian president vladimir putin has revived soviet-style bullying tactics .
would russia really dare to threaten its nuclear missiles if it does not ?
high oil prices make it easier for iran to build nuclear weapons and allow russia to use energy blackmail to threaten europe .
but europe can back back .
by imposing high taxes on energy consumption , europeans could reduce energy prices in energy consumption and international markets , thereby cutting off funds to russia and iran .
because crude oil is priced in dollars , the dollar has depreciated relative to the euro , and european consumers have been freed up relative to energy prices .
so the energy tax , roughly the same as the euro ’ s 33 % appreciation in recent years , is basically correct .
the idea that america ’ s military adventure in iraq raises the price of oil , and that it should be forgiven for oil prices to return to oil prices .
but the us is now a “ texas oil man ” in power that will not happen .
perhaps after 2008 , the change in american politics will benefit energy taxes , but it is now needed .
moreover , given the power of environmentalism in europe , the issue is specifically to make europeans work .
moreover , europeans do not narrowly equate national security with military spending .
they know that cutting off iran and russia would probably make the world safer than it is to build a submarine or aircraft carrier .
indeed , the energy tax would not only effectively counter the idea that europeans are “ 逃票 ” on defense ; it would also be tantamount to the role of defense .
yet , given that transfers to governments are already many , europeans may have increased discontent .
that is why energy taxes and payroll taxes must be implemented in the form of tax substitution , while income taxes and payroll taxes reduce the amount of actual transfers to governments .
this would strengthen national security while boosting economic growth .
critics worried that the cost of a energy tax does not account for tax substitutions .
they do not seem to recognize the far cheaper way to protect themselves from the threat posed by other means , such as the increase in the size of energy sources , such as the military expansion .
europe currently lacks military power , because it made its decision a half-century ago to protect the us , and to use the savings to build its own welfare state .
this strategy has been working for decades , but it is the risk that america ’ s resources are likely to be depleted elsewhere , leaving europe without effective protection .
this risk is becoming reality because of the iraq war .
but europeans are showing little interest in increasing defense spending , regardless of iraq ’ s war .
many believe that the new president , nicolas sarkozy , is a hawkish foreign policy hawk , but even he is pulling back from his campaign promises to keep his military spending from 2 % of gdp .
sarkozy conspicuously failed to repeat his promises in a recent speech to the french defense industry , instead warning that he might cut france ’ s defense budget immediately .
according to a respected defense industry publications , sarkozy ’ s victory in june ’ s parliamentary election was a little less than expected .
the reason europeans are reluctant to increase defense spending is expense .
spending on entitlements is costly , and that spending cuts will be painful .
the solemn promises that have been made for years have to be violated ( the social services that people can not afford to be paid for ) , and that they would reduce ( hospitals and 福利院 funding ) , while overall suffering increases .
even economic growth will not prevent a tradeoff between defense and welfare spending .
defense has been relying on the us for a half-century , creating a powerful “ peace industry ” in europe , and its main business is to fight defense spending .
the new migration from eastern europe may be a constraint on the “ peace of the people , ” which would not violate the promise of social services , but also work and wages .
but the new migrants ’ access to decisive political influence remains to be seen for some time , and europe ’ s iran and russia need immediate attention .
in short , europeans will not allow bush ’ s iraq war to become a war on their welfare state .
an energy tax that makes a tax substitution especially attractive is an attractive place for defense measures , while maintaining welfare states intact while making europe safer , greener , and rich .
so what is to wait ?
new anti-semitism
it is now violent times .
some believe that we are facing a new type of conflict : the so-called “ cultural war , ” such as the conflict between sunni and shia muslims , or the conflict between the islamists and the various ethnic tribes in africa and the west .
but the deeper causes of these conflicts are likely to be more traditional .
belonging to a particular cultural group is just a pretext for conflict between the winners of globalization and the losers .
ruthless leaders mobilize their 追随者 followers .
in particular , globalization ’ s losers are often represented by young people who are not likely to be able to make a sense of the future , and can be induced to take even suicidal action against alleged enemies .
one should not be surprised that the old and lethal anti-semitic hatred is resurgent .
its return has been carried out in the traditional context of attacks on individuals , just as a young jew in france has been murdered , or destroyed by 标志性 and synagogues .
but there is also a more general hostility toward all jewish things .
some might think that anti-semitism has survived the holocaust ; but it did not .
there is still no mistaking the history of holocaust history , or in a 大屠杀 manner .
those who deny history are both second-rate historians like david irving and , as is the case with iran ’ s recently elected president , mahmoud ahmadinejad .
the evidence of nazi germany ’ s behavior is strong , so it may not have to be taken into jail by those who deny it to prison , lest they receive more attention .
one is more worrying in a different anti-semitism , which can be called a new anti-semitism .
it is inseparable from israel .
there is no doubt that the us is the primary target of anti-western hatred , but it is also israel .
israel is the only successful country in the middle east , a highly militarized occupying power , and ruthless defense of its interests .
the sentiment that exists in the west is a bizarre sentiment that can be called palestine ’ s romanticism is difficult to exaggerate .
intellectuals like the late edward 赛德 were the agent of this sentiment , and there are many followers in europe and europe .
palestine ’ s romanticism is 美化 as israel ’ s ruling victim , pointing to the treatment of israel ’ s most palestinians at home , and a large number of repression in the occupied territories , including the effects of israel ’ s “ safe fence . ”
people or implicitly see the victims of the victims , by donating money to them , and even declare that suicide bombing is legitimate , from support for israel ’ s position to defend israel .
of course , in theory , it may be possible to oppose israel ’ s policies , but it is not anti-semitic .
israel , after all , has some critics of israel ’ s policies .
jews outside israel believe that they , right or wrong , defend the country , because it is their last safe hope .
this makes their friends dare not be able to sell , because they fear being classified as not just against israel , but also a anti-semite .
the 犹太人 of jewish defenses and their friends ’ frustration mean that those who actually truly anti-semitic can be openly debated in the arena of public debate , even if they are limited to israel ’ s rhetoric .
anti-semitism is disgusting in any guise .
this is true for other ethnicities , but the holocaust made anti-semitism unique , because it was complicit in the holocaust .
but it is impossible to defeat this new anti-semitism only through education and debate in the rest of the world .
it is linked to israel .
if one belongs to such a generation , they view israel as one of the great achievements of the twentieth century , admired the country for all sorts of ways of being oppressed and repressed , and that the country may be particularly concerned about the risks now facing risk .
a new asian security constellation
new delhi – senior officials in india and south korea recently met in recent meetings with a new “ strategic partnership . ”
they are not alone , because , throughout asia , a new security architecture is being built , but is steadily building .
how asia ’ s geopolitical situation will evolve in the coming decades will be far from certain .
but it is clear that an increasingly assertive china is playing the role of america ’ s role in asia ’ s role as a guarantor of security and stability in the region .
four different asian security conditions are possible in the coming years or decades .
first , there is a sino-centric asia .
china seeks a multipolar world , but to dominate asia .
by contrast , the us tried to build a multipolar asia , but it wants to build a multipolar asia .
the second scenario is that the us remains the most dominant force in asia ’ s security , regardless of the third possibility : the emergence of a security chain based on shared interests , and ensuring that asia ’ s unipolar situation does not happen .
the last scenario is that asia will be defined as a 一连串 regional power , including japan , india , vietnam , indonesia , and a reunified korean peninsula .
in these four cases , the first has led to considerable unease .
china ’ s neighbors increasingly worry about its growing power and assertiveness .
when china ’ s rulers are intent on building a sino-centric asia , they can not become a reliable candidate for asia ’ s leaders .
after all , real leadership is not simply derived from power , but from other countries ’ consent or tacit consent .
if the leadership roles were created by military overreach , the 小混混 of schools can become presidents .
in any case , china ’ s power will be enormous and growing , but it lacks a coercive power .
in other words , china has no capacity to expel any of its military aggression , let alone to impose on it on asia .
this fact has not eased fears in the region .
with china ’ s military expenditures growing at more than twice as fast as gdp , the country has begun to drop the charade , and self-confidence has been able to act .
china , for example , currently views the south china sea as a “ core national interest ” with taiwan and tibet , in order to conduct military operations alone in the region .
according to india ’ s defense officials , china is increasing the military ’ s deployment of a 军队 border .
as china attempts to transform its economic influence into geopolitical advantages in asia , the country that once described itself as “ friends of friends ” finds that growing power might lead to a renewed concern , but its actual actions have boosted new concerns and fears .
which country will call china asia ’ s leaders ?
the brutal suppression of six decades of brutal repression is not even hard to identify with tibet and xinjiang , which could be known from the tibetan and uighur uighur figures of 2008 .
leadership requires not just a strong economy and military power , but a force that can inspire all sides .
this power is also often a moral veneer for the pursuit of a particular objective or interests .
for example , the us and its allies are not winning the cold war , but by sowing ideas and market economies to other regions .
as the strategic analyst stanley a. 崴 put it , “ it ’ s eating the new blood of communism , leaving it out of global appeal , ” and it will eventually fail to satisfy the aspirations of a better and more open life .
while it has already shown confidence in its own national interests and the classic geopolitical balance , china can not simply pursue its own interests or contain potential rivals if it is to replace the us and lead its rivals .
more fundamentally , china represents what values and ideas are .
in the absence of an answer to this question , china ’ s excessive assertiveness spurs the us to strengthen america ’ s security cooperation in asia .
south korea has already strengthened its military alliance with the us , japan ’ s previous demand that the us military base withdraw from okinawa , and , in the asian countries , india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines all have closer to the us .
in terms of military power , and the distribution of military bases and the number of asian security allies in asia , no single force or alliance will be comparable to the us in the next 25 years .
but , while the us continues to ensure its central role in asia , its security treaty will need to be defended by security guarantees for allies and partners .
america ’ s determination to do so with allies when things are going sour will determine its ability and scope for future asian security alliances .
the third and fourth scenarios may be possible in the united states , where the us remains the bedrock of its asian security .
asian countries are also starting to build multilateral security nets , laying the groundwork for a strategic partnership with the future .
indeed , asia , linked by strategic cooperation , is crucial to achieving regional stability .
a new deal for un reform
the united nations is deeply troubled .
the controversy over the creation of a united nations human rights council has just been resolved , and the new dispute has begun .
the us is pressing for administrative reforms and threatening to cut funding without reform .
the secretary-general has submitted a sensible reform plan , but most countries in the un , the united nations member states , are sharply opposed .
this is because they believe that it is a step toward weakening the un general assembly , serving as yet another step in the security council , and , in particular , the proposal to give the secretary-general more power and responsibilities , and the security council ’ s five permanent members , which have veto power , actually decided .
many un member states believe that the un ’ s internal power is shifting from the un general assembly , thereby refusing to abandon what they perceive as the last authority , by controlling the budget by the convention ’ s fifth committee .
in practice , the fifth committee imposed the kind of 宏观管理 that should be imposed by the secretary general and the management of the secretary general , which can ensure that the un works effectively and with the challenges that it can face .
this is the basis for america ’ s insistence on administrative reforms .
there is a urgently needed way to find out that dilemma .
the current proposal , if failing , would mean that all un reform efforts will end the disaster , with devastating consequences for the provision of assistance provided by the united nations development program , the un ’ s myriad peacekeeping missions , and the myriad other services provided by un agencies .
the way to a satisfactory end is clear : giving the general assembly a greater role to the general assembly ’ s selection problem is that the member states will be empowered to empower their own authority .
this approach would not only implement much-needed administrative reforms , but also clarify the need for improved progress and transparency .
after all , the un charter stipulates that the un general assembly appointed the secretary-general under the auspices of the security council .
originally conceived , these two institutions will agree on a candidate .
in practice , however , the five permanent members agreed on candidates to agree on the security council , the subsequent un general assembly , and then by the un general assembly .
the substantive discussion of the new secretary-general is being carried out by secret members of the five permanent members , adding to other member states , including those seeking to expand the size of the security council .
the united states , for its part , should reform the budget process in order to persuade the other permanent members of the security council to play a larger role in the process .
there are several ways to do that .
the security council can agree to recommend several candidates , and the un general assembly has chosen .
likewise , the un general assembly could recommend several candidates for the security council , and the security council has chosen one of the next to be ratified by the assembly .
either way , the selection process will benefit from greater transparency .
for example , the general assembly should hold public hearings to press candidates for candidates , thereby dramatically increasing the candidate ’ s standing .
such proposals would help resolve the current dispute if they are accepted , and all parties are satisfied .
indeed , these proposals will make the un stronger than ever .
new dawn for chinese journalism
a major incident inspired chinese journalists .
earlier this year , the government banned newspaper bing , the newspaper bing dian weekly , fueling public protest .
even more surprising , the government has allowed bing to keep bing on the hook .
the editor-in-chief of the bing and the editor-in-chief were sacked , but public questioning of the legitimacy of the government ’ s authority to regulate journalism is bound to have a profound impact .
foreign observers like to associate the bing dian incident with other recent crackdowns on china ’ s mass media , and concluded that , under current bureaucratic control , china ’ s press freedom has no hope of any hope .
there is no denying that , since the chinese government launched its opening of reform 30 years ago , governments have no significant change in the system ’ s regulatory system .
on the contrary , the system has become more rigorous and covert .
but i am also convinced that subtle changes are emerging .
one prerequisite for effective control of the media is the accepted acceptance of the controller ’ s ideology .
after 1949 , the chinese communist party cultivated a pile of “ theoretical experts ” and other ideological servants to write a lengthy article to promote “ marxism . ”
now , however , it is difficult to see how such writers are involved , and their creations will be ridiculed by readers .
indeed , it is widely derided that china ’ s ideological grip on ideology can be maintained only through internal notices and telephone calls .
more important , even regulators themselves have no longer embraced rigid dogma .
i recently met with a official who was in office , and i had impressed me with a bold and bold commentary on the immediate present .
for news producers , they have long believed that news is propaganda .
my career began in 1979 , and i joined daily youth daily , experiencing the entire process of china ’ s reform and opening up .
by the mid-1980 ’ s , the chinese news workers of our generation passed a broad reading of the traditional communist idea of journalism .
younger journalists have thus been able to reach western news ideas from the start .
indeed , in china ’ s universities , western works are taught as “ models for writing ” to journalism students .
this is a crucial change , one of the most fundamental reasons for the growing number of chinese journalism and the number of real comments today .
market pressure is also important in pushing china ’ s media to embrace change .
contrary to what foreign countries recognize , only a handful of chinese media – such as the people ’ s daily , the 光明日报 , and the 经济日报 – are dependent on government money .
central television relies mainly on its advertising revenue , and the government pays only a fraction of its large budget .
whether most local broadcasting or tv stations survive will survive in the market .
political information remains subject to tight control , which has contributed to the development of “ harmless ” recreational , entertainment , and sports information – a story that is basically free .
in the short run , this is a recipe for low journalistic standards .
but , in recent years , many of the products that have thrived on 红火 红火 have begun to decline .
sooner or later , readers will begin to buy the newspapers that they can provide , expressing their views .
indeed , it is precisely these tabloids who have started to take responsibility for market pressure to respond to market pressure .
in recent years , they have repeatedly been sensitive to sensitive news .
as a result , mainstream media are marginalized , and previously marginalized media have become the main media .
so , even if the current system does not change any changes , the pursuit of disaster , judicial abuses , and citizens ’ pursuit of their own legal equity , and the broad coverage of policies from public perspective , is now common .
in the south , for example , reports of the south korean ocean have led to the kind of abortions that the state department publishes .
the 连续 report on sars made the chinese public aware of the truth about the epidemic .
the bing shimbun daily published the taiwanese writer 龙应台 龙应台 on taiwan ’ s democratic development .
these gains are slow and frustrated , reflecting the gradual evolution of the system .
nevertheless , this progress is real progress , suggesting that the chinese media ’ s growing influence , and that china is becoming a “ free expression ” country .
as the old saying goes , a “ 得道多助 , a little more than a little more . ”
the “ 道 ” resides in people ’ s hearts .
without the hearts and minds of producers of news producers – or , rather , the people who gradually lose their journalistic censors – this seems to be as formidable as the collapse of the berlin wall .
a new deal for fragile states
paris – around a quarter of the world ’ s population is now living in fragile and conflict-affected countries .
despite the vast amount of money invested in these countries over the last 50 years , armed conflict and violence are continuing to take millions of lives .
i experienced firsthand the need for a new approach in 2004 .
in december , sri lanka struck a devastating tsunami , with foreign ministers visiting the island in nearly 50 months .
every minister brings the country ’ s own initiative , its own civil-society organizations , and its own television media .
almost no one has a deep understanding of the dynamics of political conflict between tamils and sri lanka ’ s state .
the result is a great mistake , fueling further violence .
one of our major challenges today is to change the old model of partner , policy , and financing by donor countries and partners .
conflict-affected countries need to be able to decide their own destinies .
we should establish a post-conflict transition model , proposed by the g7+ , a group of fragile states .
this model is simple : countries themselves assess their own situation , using tools that they develop , thereby planning to plan for peace , prosperity , and plan for prosperity .
that sounds like the sky in the sky , but we have already tried in africa , where the 2013 繁荣 agenda ( Agenda ) and liberia ’ s vision 2030 demonstrate the potential for such planning .
progress is being monitored by countries that meet the urgent need to consolidate peace , expand access to justice , and increase security .
the truth suggests that using local institutions and capabilities strengthens progress .
the “ new deal for a fragile state ” was established in a series of international commitments on aid and development , and the fourth assistance summit in south korea in 2011 is highly welcome .
the plan proposes a similar pattern , arguing that the most important elements of building a peaceful state and society : a commitment to improving aid to the region and the region ’ s fragile regions – peace and development goals .
the new deal suggests that the history of peaceful construction teaches us that the country ’ s national leadership and all are essential to achieving clear and sustainable results .
as the south sudan finance minister 诺盖 Ngai put it , “ we don ’ t engage in what we do . ”
in several conversations with south sudan ’ s president , Salva Kiir , we discussed a clear list of priorities for the new country .
but these goals can be meaningful only if partners in fragile countries are willing to accept what they do , rather than their own headquarters .
more than 40 countries and institutions support the new deal ’ s approach , promising to build better partnerships and the resources and political capital needed to invest .
this is the new deal ’ s innovation story ; it creates political support around the issues needed to achieve a country from conflict and fragility toward peace and stability .
supporting inclusive political dialogue , ensuring conflict through peaceful means , is the most urgent task , as well as the private sector ’ s dynamic problems with security , justice , and the creation of full employment opportunities .
moreover , many fragile countries are rich in natural resources , and must build transparent resource management – aimed at curbing corruption , controlling the illegal flow of money , and the illegal flow of goods and goods .
focusing on these processes would ensure that fragile states become leaders and those responsible .
as partners , we must accept the country ’ s leadership .
after haiti ’ s earthquake in 2010 , the country became a “ 共和国 republic . ”
external partners can not create conditions for the haitian people themselves to dominate their grip on their own territory , undermining the establishment of well-functioning internal governance systems .
how , then , will we translate our commitment and priorities to improving the lives of people who are affected by conflict and fragility ?
oecd countries need a model to guide their commitments .
our partners must continue to demand changes in policies and measures by groupings like the g7+ .
with the 2015 deadline for the millennium development goals , progress toward peace , security , and non-violent conflict resolution continued to be critical , and must be fully integrated into the future development agenda .
recently , with international peace building and national construction dialogue ( the high-level political forum on the new deal ) meeting in washington , dc , member states met in washington to assess progress toward changing work and implement new deals .
they have passed the washington declaration , which urged partners , the brics , and civil-society organizations to win further progress according to the new deal , and call for a development agenda for peace and state-building in the post-2015 period .
ultimately , our progress depends on the determination of all people to make living in the face of violence , conflict , and insecurity .
a new deal for lisbon strategy
what went wrong with the eu ’ s lisbon treaty ?
not only is the public right to enhance competitiveness , promote economic development , and increase employment , but even many intellectuals , academic academics , chief executives , and even parliamentarians .
for example , in the debate over the eu ’ s constitutional treaty , neither its supporters nor their opponents mentioned the lisbon strategy .
so the growing “ euroskepticism ” of france , the netherlands , and elsewhere has little to say .
while programs like erasmus have succeeded , they have gained little popularity , but ordinary people feel less than the eu ’ s contribution to higher education or training .
indeed , the european public opinion center ’ s recent survey of the lisbon strategy shows that there is little connection between european public policies and economic competitiveness .
of course , some laboratories receive the eu ’ s grants , but did not establish the corresponding european goals in research programs .
europe is viewed more as a constraint than on planning ; more as a tool , rather than a clear vision of a specific idea .
europe ’ s ruling class and policymakers are responsible for this state of affairs .
the recent assessment by former dutch prime minister 柯克斯 柯克斯 shows that the eu ’ s member states have not made the lisbon strategy a priority , and they are unwilling to give the eu an ambitious strategy to address the consequences of this neglect .
even as leaders ignore the task , it is difficult to ask people to pay enthusiastic .
after all , it is a matter of legitimacy .
and the main goal – employment , development , and research – has a reasonable side of all .
but the specific policies needed to achieve the goal are not , because the reform of the welfare state and the labor market mean that competition is intensifying , and that many people feel nervous .
the eu is even more problematic when it comes to obtaining recognition , which contains people ’ s attachment and attachment to the eu .
faced with difficult choices – the role of the burden , the form of organizations in the public sector , the status of government employees – member states are seen as the only entities that are entitled to decide the right to decide .
in short , when the eu grants grants , it was paid ; but , once unpopular reforms were implemented , the eu becomes a 替罪 of political , social , and economic 弊政 .
from an economic standpoint , the lisbon strategy aims to transform europe into a balanced economic power with the united states and asia today .
but none of this is as isolated as the euro has been .
in many countries , “ power ” was politically neutral .
after all , there is no linkage between national power and power in europe .
if we want europe to become more legitimate , we must show how to link these two areas .
aside from the public ’ s lack of understanding of the lisbon strategy and the inability of member states to do nothing in the long term , another problem is that people lack the knowledge - competition , innovation , and low interest rates – to ensure quality , innovation , and low prices .
competition also reduces rent-seeking problems , eliminating protection of traditional corporate interests .
similarly , while competition improves the quality of research and education , it does not necessarily need to cut public investment , base basic research , or eliminate research funds .
competition can force policymakers to ensure transparency and fairness , and that the effective means of restoring democracy and modernizing political institutions will probably be the most important .
the so-called centrists must give up their privileges , and adjustment companies must limit collusion between managers , civil servants , or politicians .
we must explain to people that europe is upholding the democratic virtues of public faith , in economic , political , and social life .
the main objective of how to organize research and higher education is the lisbon strategy .
fundamental changes to the appointment of academics and researchers in most member states , or to overhaul the standards of teaching and experiment , are impossible , but the eu can become a catalyst for quality and reform in the country , which has become a catalyst for national quality and reform .
emulation with good excellence will be the essence of competition .
the french socialist party ’ s leader , dominique strauss-kahn , was a good start , arguing that 0.25 % of europe ’ s gdp is dedicated to research and development .
moreover , europe must develop tools to analyze strategic analysis , assess , and forecast the public debate .
these across europe must remain free and independent , and leaders need to listen to their advice and integrate their advice into crafting decision-making .
in many areas of the lisbon strategy , the eu can not avoid member states ’ concerns .
but , because all countries can not do it alone , they will not reject political control , and we must combine the eu ’ s policies with policies that are well connected to member states .
otherwise , the lisbon strategy could merely create an inefficient bureaucracy , rather than catalyzing the eu ’ s democracy .
in short , the lisbon strategy would have expected europe to become a true giant for decades to come , or to promote further euroskepticism .
a new democratic agenda for russia
moscow – when russian president dmitri medvedev ’ s statement on the federal assembly , his speech seemed to be directed at an advanced , prosperous country , rather than today ’ s russia , which is all the more true .
russia will hold a presidential election in 2012 .
in my view , the events of 2011 will exceed the 2012 election campaign .
indeed , while domestic opposition has refused to change , some are irresponsible to draw russia into an “ incorrigibly authoritarian state , ” but society ’ s development is likely to change russia ’ s politics completely .
but to achieve this , new initiatives must be developed this year .
a decade ago , defending the territorial integrity and restoring the rule of law was a priority for russia .
the people supported president vladimir putin , who is committed to stabilizing the russian order .
the precise approach and the results of the results , while debatable , have been overcome by the fact that the “ existential challenge ” has been overcome .
but progress on stabilization further highlights russia ’ s unresolved problems , even though it was not the global financial crisis , but these problems have become more serious in the global financial crisis .
after all , russians have opted for this , 资源 , and 依赖 economy .
the same can not be blamed on the onset of the global financial crisis , which has undermined official corruption at all levels .
we russians continue to rely on oil and gas , and forget that these resources are not a permanent solution to the problem .
but even under favorable world markets , we failed to address the poverty problem facing millions of russians .
i believe that all of russia ’ s troubles come from politics .
only in such circumstances can a solution be difficult to find .
but , starting in 2005-2006 , government measures have almost shut down the likelihood of immediate problems .
by appointing an election to the region ’ s provincial provincial governors , political parties rank on the list of electoral lists , driving up the electoral threshold to the duma , and the elimination of a minimum standard of voting – all of which are accompanied by a political system in which all of the elections and public media manipulate them .
in this case , political elites become self-absorbed , and only their own narrow interests .
this summer , with wildfires raging outside moscow , the political elite increasingly became more dangerous .
but there are other factors at work : the public ’ s demands are growing , and they know how to express their own interests while knowing how to express their claims .
while the traditional russian society is neither deep nor strong , real progress toward this goal can be seen .
public activists , journalists , ecologists , businessmen , and ordinary people who have experienced the tyranny of public officials have begun to participate .
this is partly the case with the government .
medvedev ’ s construction of a highway building near moscow ’ s highway near the massive public protests is a meaningful step .
for a few months , moscow and the federal government have abandoned their opponents of highways , so medvedev ’ s decision sent a signal to people that they are not allowed to ignore their demands .
but , soon after that decision , the bureaucracy tried to turn public hearings into an inferior form , and the hearings were intended to give public and civil institutions a voice in addressing similar issues .
so the struggle between democracy and the anti-democratic side is growing .
if the opposite triumph prevails , the results that we have made in previous years – including the stability itself – have been made .
it is not secret that medvedev is publicly said in november that he wrote in his blog : “ there is a sign of stagnant political life at a time when political life is stagnant , and the threat of stability has become a threat . ”
the president ’ s statement is surprising .
medvedev ’ s view has reinforced his understanding of russia ’ s problems from politics – the ruling by the ruling party , the absence of opposition forces , and the lack of a few political players .
i welcome medvedev ’ s focus on social concerns and his anti-bureaucratic rhetoric .
but his statement is a first step in formulating russia ’ s new agenda , beginning with the need to restore and accelerate the pace of progress toward truly effective democracy .
it is important to convince russians that medvedev ’ s statement reflects his voice , and he believes that he is willing to fight for the people .
among these priorities , education is certainly the most important project .
we are close to the dangerous edges , and the provision of provisions for universal free education is likely to become hollow .
people ask : why did world war ii provide free education for free education after world war ii ?
social citizens also demand effective mechanisms for fighting corruption , which is becoming a growing political problem , owing to the growing gap between the government and the people .
indeed , today ’ s elites can not and will not solve it .
only a serious presidential plan supported by civil society and brave new political forces will be able to address this problem .
the new plan must also include strong economic factors .
patching up the budget deficit and a specific plan is not enough to ensure economic renewal .
russia needs a breakthrough , building a modern , knowledge-based , and ecologically sustainable economy .
i am sure that medvedev will be a leader in formulating russia ’ s new agenda , and he must take action in the coming year .
he will support the social community .
de-risking revisited
new york – before the latest bout of financial-market turbulence , a large number of risky assets ( including stocks , government bonds , and commodities ) have been rebounding since last summer .
but economic growth worldwide remains stagnant , despite the risk aversion and volatility that the risk aversion is declining .
today , the global economy is coming home to roost .
japan had to resort to two decades of stagnation and struggle for abenomics to avoid a recession .
in the united kingdom , the debate since last summer has focused on a triple-dip recession .
most eurozone countries remain mired in a severe recession , and now spread to the periphery .
even in the us , economic performance has been lackluster , with growth hovering hovering around 1.5 % over the last few quarters .
today , the darlings of the world economy is not immune to its own spin .
according to the imf , china ’ s annual gdp growth has slowed from 10 % in 2010 to 8 % in 2010 ; at the same time , india ’ s growth rate fell from 11.2% to 5.7 % .
russia , brazil , and south africa are growing at around 3 % , and other emerging markets are not .
the differences between finance and livelihoods ( rising asset prices and economic underperformance ) can be explained by three factors .
first , the tail risks of the global economy ( low-probability , high-impact shocks ) – the eurozone ’ s collapse , the collapse of the fiscal cliff in the united states , the chinese economy ’ s hard landing , israel ’ s economic hard landing , and the war on nuclear proliferation – would be lower a year ago .
second , despite disappointing growth in both advanced and emerging markets , financial markets still want better economic data in the second half of 2013 and 2014 , especially in the united states and japan , where most emerging markets will return to their knees .
optimists repeatedly reiterated “ this year ’ s different ” : after a prolonged period of painful deleveraging , the global economy should have been on the cusp of stronger growth .
third , in response to low growth and low inflation ( partly owing to lower commodity prices ) , the world ’ s major central banks have implemented a new round of unconventional monetary easing : lower policy rates , forward guidance , quantitative easing ( qe ) , and credit easing .
similarly , many emerging-market central banks have used lower policy rates to deal with low growth and low inflation .
that liquidity search for yield has fueled the rebound in global asset prices .
but there are two risks to 反弹 asset reflation .
first , if growth does not recover , it can not be expected ( and thus the validity of asset prices ) , which will eventually overwhelm the 浮力 of liquidity , forcing asset prices to fall as weak economic fundamentals fall .
second , some central banks – that is , the fed – would pull back ( or plumbers ) , exit from qe and zero policy rates .
this brings us to the recent financial-market turbulence .
in the first half of this year , growth in china and other emerging markets is slowing .
this explains the underperformance of commodity prices and emerging-market equities before the recent turmoil .
but the fed ’ s recent signs of tapering of qe – a stronger evidence with china ’ s slowdown and china , japan , and the european central bank – have made emerging markets worse off .
these countries find themselves in the 接收端 – not just the correction in commodity prices and equities , but also a brutal 货币 of currency 重新 and fixed-income assets .
brazil and other countries have complained that “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars ” are now being brought to what they want : the possibility of an early withdrawal from qe .
whether the correction in risky assets is temporary or the beginning of a bear market depends on several factors .
the first is whether the fed will be out of qe as soon as it signaled .
a weak us economy and lower inflation will force the fed to slow down the pace of liquidity support .
another variable is how monetary policy in other developed countries will be more accommodative .
the bank of japan , the european central bank , the bank of england , and the swiss national bank all have eased monetary policy without the economic lag .
how they will follow will depend largely on domestic conditions , and how china ’ s growth slowdown will threaten asia ’ s economy , commodity exporters , and the us and the eurozone .
the further slowdown in china and other emerging markets is another risk to financial markets .
how can emerging-market policymakers respond to instability : they will raise interest rates to prevent inflationary depreciation and capital outflows or reduce interest rates or lower interest rates , thereby increasing the risk of inflation and capital flows ?
finally , there are two factors : the rapid fall of the eurozone economy ( which recently signaled some signs of stability , but the monetary union ’ s chronic malaise has not resolved ) ; and tensions in the middle east and the threat of nuclear proliferation – and the threat posed by the us and israel – will escalate or succeed .
the new era of uncertainty and volatility is already underway , and it is likely to lead to a surge in economic and market drift .
in fact , a broader cycle of risk for financial markets is likely to come .
a new era for islamic science ?
for centuries , when science and mathematics are undergoing a period of great invention , one region in the world stood out .
the masters of these disciplines were revered there , medicine developed quickly , and ordinary people were curious about the nature of nature .
this region , too , has received little global respect .
in the other half of the planet ’ s known known , scientists are punished , even killed .
mathematics has been banned as a 异端 异端 , and thus became subservient to religion .
living standards are low .
the prosperous middle east was the middle east , and , by contrast , was ignorant europe in reverse .
while both regions are governed by religious rule ( historians ’ views and views of religion in this context differ ) , science flourished only in one of them .
of course , today ’ s roles in the middle east and the west have reversed .
since world war ii , the us has been the world ’ s undisputed leader in science .
throughout this period , the brightest students in the world were attracted to their country ’ s superior research universities and opportunities .
until recently , more than half of all mathematics , science , and engineering professionals were foreign-born .
many of these people stayed after graduation in the us , and the industry and government in the us have benefited from it .
at the same time , the islamic culture has entered a historical phase : science is being equated with western influence .
even in countries where oil revenues can support a substantial number of countries , arab rulers do not encourage such investment .
more recently , a more politically respected desire for greater political respect prompted the islamic state to invest in technology , most notably in pakistan and iran .
but , while nuclear weapons have some political heft , it is ordinary and old .
imagine the impact of a pakistani institution that is in the world lead in cancer research .
if researchers in oman find a way to suppress hiv , what will happen to the country ’ s political voice ?
this is an opportunity .
but another opportunity exists not just for islamic societies .
the us has lately been wrong .
as a whole , the “ right to faith ” has replaced science with the president .
when facts and official beliefs clash with official beliefs , the report ’ s reports have changed in political terms .
encouraged by a religiously influenced government , the school system will focus on shifting its focus from “ science ” to “ values . ”
since the terrorist attacks of 2001 , entry visas in the us have been reduced , and it has become more difficult for the flow of young people to us universities .
major scientific organizations have protested , but they do not help .
at the same time , changing the tax code makes investors richer in the short term , thereby discouraging long-term spending on research .
the iraq war has received $ 500 billion worth of funding – a amount that almost equals the amount of funding that has been given for the last 1,000 years .
even if the us avoids a fundamentalist dark age , it is clearly facing the risk of losing global scientific dominance .
in the 1980 ’ s , japan recognized the link between political influence and science .
japan ’ s chief industrialist , jim yong ishihara , the chairman of sony , and right-wing politician shintaro ishihara , published a series of speeches in 1986 , with the publication of “ japan could be said to be the book . ”
they outlined a national strategy that produced world influence in science .
the key idea is that military power is obsolete if the “ food chain ” of military technology is controlled by other countries .
the book ’ s title refers to japan ’ s “ no ” military influence on us military influence after japan is in possession of key military technologies .
it is possible to build a knowledge-based economy with oil wealth .
for example , texas , like most southern us states , was once economically poor and deteriorating .
it has a revenues from oil , but it is not as much a boon for prosperity as it is for the economy .
so texas decided to devote its oil funds to an education fund .
the fund is now comparable to that of harvard university , and is shared by 15 universities .
the effect is amazing : aerospace manufacturing has almost disappeared from california , but in texas .
telecom research centers and consortia have , and even canada ’ s telecommunications giant 电信 , texas .
while manufacturing in the us is in crisis , texas is among the strongest in the world .
the same outcome can not be found in the middle east .
nevertheless , the islamic world must rediscover and inherit its proud tradition .
a new agenda for growth in europe
growth and employment need to be two-pronged .
the eu ’ s leaders have now recognized this , which will be a limited agenda for the european commission meeting in january 2012 .
but there is still a big question : how can growth revive growth ?
clearly , we need urgent action .
the eurozone contracted in the last quarter of 2011 , and even germany was not immune .
the new year looks grim .
france and britain are crumbling .
italy and spain are already in deep recession .
greece will be in a fifth year .
unemployment in the eurozone has reached all-time highs , with one in two young people jobless in spain and greece .
the difficulties facing the economy are large : fiscal austerity , higher interest rates in countries below the 级别 level , retrenchment in bank credit , weak private sector deleveraging , weak private sector investment , and a declining demand for the global slowdown .
unless growth picks up , any temporary fiscal stabilization is fragile .
recession will hit banks and governments ’ already-weak balance sheets , exacerbating pressure to deleverage .
but , while gradual adjustment is crucial , deep and deep cuts are likely to backfire : a massive reduction in private credit and government spending would lead to a sharper slowdown , causing a vicious cycle of recession .
new big growth is therefore essential .
so far , the growth agenda has been composed largely of structural reform , which is needed to boost productivity and productivity flexibility in the future .
the crisis does provide a political opportunity for many countries to do great things in this direction ; but , overall , structural reforms do not immediately generate growth and job opportunities ( except for allowing shops to prolong their purchases ) .
by contrast , measures like phasing out low-productivity jobs start up with unemployment , increasing government spending , and reducing private spending .
moreover , because demand is depressed , credit supply is deficient , and barriers to entrepreneurship are often higher , businesses will need more productive jobs than usual .
in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to stimulate growth in 2012 .
indeed , it is time to focus on boosting investment and exports in surplus countries , such as france , italy , and spain ( as well as the united kingdom ) ; and boosting consumption of surplus countries like germany and the netherlands .
the ecb has taken decisive action to boost european banks ; now it should support the real economy simultaneously .
although official interest rates are only 1 % , countries like spain , which have no solvency problem , have a ten-year debt rate of 5 % , while in italy the creditworthy firm had to borrow at extremely high interest rates ( if it is financed ) .
as a result , the ecb should help to bypass the transmission mechanism of monetary policy ; the european banking authority should organize excessive deleveraging , different banks should have different capital requirements , and , when necessary , national governments should guarantee the loans to small and medium-size enterprises .
while improving access to finance is crucial , governments need to do more to boost investment .
they need to take steps as soon as possible , making it easier for startups to become more vulnerable , leaving risky capital to be limited by barriers to a wide range of barriers , to boost investment .
at the eu level , just as eu president josé manuel barroso proposed last september ’ s eu union address , the european investment bank ’ s ( 赎回 ) capital should increase substantially in order to provide financing to a large pan-european investment program , particularly infrastructure projects .
boosting growth also matters .
deficit countries need to increase their competitiveness , increase productivity , and cut costs .
a weaker devaluation – a lower payroll tax , and a higher tax on revenue – would also help .
the surplus countries should also do their part , in their own interest .
as china needs to allow the renminbi to appreciate , germany needs to increase its real exchange rate – both in absolute quantities and from its share of gdp , which exceeds china ’ s .
this means that germany should raise wages and allow wages to be tied to their rising productivity , thereby enabling the german people and spaniards to enjoy vacation .
if businesses do not want to do so , they can adopt a reduction in income taxes .
this requires fiscal policy .
governments that can not borrow from the market at low interest rates have no choice but to tighten their belts .
but they should pursue smart fiscal consolidation , not new austerity .
so they should maintain investment in skills and infrastructure , while cutting subsidies and transfer payments .
they should also legislate for future reform legislation , especially to encourage people to work longer .
finally , governments that can borrow at unprecedentedly low interest rates ( for example , germany , for example , can issue ten-year treasury bonds for more than a 0 % real interest rate ) should bear the responsibility to support demand .
is it really so difficult to see the vat drop before germany ’ s general election next year ?
a new holy alliance ?
london – saudi arabia ’ s king abdullah and pope benedict xvi , who recently met with the vatican ’ s “ custodian of the holy land , ” have been particularly consequential , especially as radical muslims are citing the role of “ jihadists ” in the middle east .
this is the clearest sign of the “ holy alliance ” that is being made in the world ’ s conservative leaders .
the main audience for the muslim king and roman catholic 教宗 was not their followers , but another conservative leader , president george w. bush .
the first “ holy alliance ” was the creation of the austrian prince metternich in the aftermath of the napoleonic war .
it aims to maintain peace ( and the security of the relatively vulnerable austrian empire ) by upholding a coalition of shared values .
metternich ’ s “ holy alliance ” was a creative political argument rooted in napoleon ’ s defeat .
after its lofty 名分 , it is an innovative innovation that has had a significant diplomatic significance : the introduction of a calculated 限制 factor .
its members , austria , prussia , and russia , have a vested interest in the survival of their own regimes , and thus to seek to avoid conflict .
metternich ’ s system worked in much of the nineteenth century , because it protected a genuine balance of power between countries with shared values .
but what about the saudi king , the pope , and the us president ?
that meeting itself suggests that both pope and king believe that they should make a difference .
indeed , king abdullah believes that he is the top leader of the muslim world , the first saudi king to meet the christian leader .
the two met ostensibly , not expressing shared conservatism , but confirming and promoting the authority of its traditional values .
both agreed that reforms must be slow and cautious , and they must not undermine the inherent institutions , especially religious and patriarchal families .
abdullah wants to meet because he believes that the world has divided the conservative party since 2001 .
until then , he and bush shared a shared worldview , emphasizing the importance of religion , traditional family ( as the two countries understood ) , social discipline , and the state ’ s role in supporting these mechanisms .
but america ’ s extremism has created tensions between the middle east ’ s religious communities and the rise of extremism in the region .
since 2001 , christian minorities throughout the region have called the target targets , including even lebanon ’ s maronite community .
in iraq , sunni muslims feel besieged by the majority of the country ’ s ruling majority .
against this background , the holy alliance of moral restraint has emerged .
abdullah may well understand that some restrictions are needed to prevent the entire middle east from becoming a bitter war .
moreover , abdullah understands that his crumbling regime would be able to withstand the radical winds of extremism if it can build a stable alliance that metternich created .
king abdullah and the austrian emperor , like the austrian emperor , understood tocqueville ’ s theory : the most dangerous moment of regime change is its beginning .
the king is careful to start politically open , and he knows that he needs regional peace and a reduction in islamic holy rage .
the problem is that abdullah can not rely on his domestic conservative allies to give him the time he needs .
the wahhabi religious establishment is the saudi state ’ s behind-the-scenes ruler , and it is likely to undermine attempts at regional religious reconciliation .
religious police members insist that the country ’ s christian guests must continue to abide by strict wahhabi rules .
the wahhabis could also be bribed by the oil dollar , a group of judges who eagerly await the next beheading , stoning , or 鞭击 in public square .
in doing so , the united states now is the only viable diplomatic strategy for saudi arabia , even if some of these conservatives are christian .
conservative rulers fall when the conservative rulers failed to control their own weaknesses , and , especially , the revolutionary challenge .
after all , few political systems can withstand these , like saudi arabia ’ s islamic extremists , who claim that they can maintain that system more effectively than their current rule .
abdullah believes that only conservative leaders and powers ( including the us retreat from diplomatic radicalism ) can restore some stability in the middle east .
a glimmer of hope for iran
berlin – hassan rowhani ’ s victory in iran ’ s presidential election is predictable .
even supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei may be surprised by his first victory in rowhani ’ s first-round victory .
as a result , a new dynamic is possible with iran ’ s nuclear program and the syrian civil war .
but the situation is in the middle east : you never know what happens next .
this year marks the tenth anniversary of the launch of iran ’ s nuclear program , launched by iran and germany , france , and britain .
i was at the time representing germany , and rowhani led the iranian delegation .
the expansion of the talks between germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council , the two permanent members of the united nations security council , remains until today , without any tangible results .
now rowhani has returned to iran ’ s risky nuclear program , though it is the president .
we – and what he should expect ?
according to individual experience , rowhani ’ s 性格特点 is civility and openness .
unlike outgoing president mahmoud ahmadinejad , he is not surrounded by skillful and experienced diplomats .
but he should have no doubt about the government ’ s relationship with the government , which is real and moderate , rather than the opposition representative .
to succeed in his presidency , rouhani must deliver on improving the iranians ’ commitment to improving living standards without endangering the islamic republic .
doing so will not be easy , and it is an impossible task .
the economic improvements that voters demanded when rouhani was elected are almost certain to be realized only if the west and international sanctions were removed .
but the premise of an end to international sanctions is a breakthrough in the nuclear negotiations .
economic development requires at least a temporary resolution of the major regional conflicts .
the region has changed dramatically over the past decade .
withdrawal from iraq and the withdrawal of afghanistan from afghanistan have weakened the us .
at the same time , we are witnessing the disintegration of the middle east in the middle east of england and britain , when the two imperial powers in europe , including today ’ s lebanon , have created territorial claims beyond the palestinians , the jordan river , and iraq .
the new regional order has not yet materialized , with a future of danger and chaos .
as iran seeks to maintain its influence and its shia allies , its nuclear dispute with the security council is linked to its regional ambitions .
after all , iran ’ s nuclear prospects will most likely exacerbate the regional nuclear arms race and violent conflict .
the two issues , therefore , must be addressed successfully before the sanctions were removed .
iran and its international interlocutors should take past lessons , and rightly anticipate the possible gains .
dialogue can not be reached quickly , given the diametrically opposed interests of all parties , and both domestic and coalition resistance , and a deep lack of trust in all sides .
moreover , in addition to negotiating with the p5+1 , direct and american negotiations are a good option for iran .
to achieve positive results , iran is likely to improve relations with saudi arabia and the gulf states and change its attitude toward israel .
likewise , the west must understand that the islamic republic is not homogeneous .
the iranian government has the power of many of its power centers to influence each other in the decision-making process .
the office of the president is only one of them .
the same is true of the supreme leader , who , despite its seeming title , is not in his hands .
the last decade has attempted two political paths : president mohammad khatami ’ s reformist model , and hardline radicalism under ahmadinejad .
this is a failure .
the reformers can not defeat the conservative opposition , while the radicals can not overcome the domestic economic realities of their foreign and nuclear policy .
rouhani must fight for a majority of power centers , while completing the task that voters give .
in iran , the pervasive loss of trust will complicate the difficult task that has become even more complicated .
many in the us and the west view rouhani as the islamic republic ’ s moderates , because ahmadinejad is more aggressive and perceived as the iranians .
in turn , many iranians regard obama as an american moderates attempting to overturn iran ’ s regime , and he views george w. bush as america ’ s most honest and radical representative .
both perceptions distort reality , but both contain practical factors .
while these perceptions are not accurate – perhaps precisely because they are inaccurate , rouhani ’ s government offers an unexpected opportunity for the nuclear negotiations and political settlement in syria .
during the afghanistan conference in bonn in 2001 , iran took a pragmatic and pragmatic approach , while iran did nothing in return .
as for nuclear negotiations , the p5+1 needs to focus on the objective of blocking all of iran ’ s military use by objective .
iran ’ s focus should be on upholding the right to peaceful nuclear energy by adhering to the non-proliferation pact and its provisions .
both problems sound more straightforward than simple : a failure to succeed , and there is plenty of room to negotiate , regulation , and enforcement .
it is important to highlight the need for realistic expectations .
the task of achieving a nuclear deal with nuclear negotiations , or even controlling major regional conflicts , is difficult .
but it would be a high degree of irresponsible irresponsibility not to seize the unexpected opportunity of rouhani ’ s election .
a second chance for european reform
munich – the european central bank ’ s commitment to stabilize eurozone government bonds has stabilized markets , because this promise is essentially assured creditors , and taxpayers and pensioners in countries where the eurozone is still strong still bear the burden of repayment .
despite the ecb ’ s failure to mention the implementation of its bond-buying program , its commitment has been enough to stimulate investors ’ appetite , reducing interest-rate spreads within the eurozone , and making it possible to reduce the financial burden of the crisis by printing ( target credit ) .
a temporary respite offers an ideal opportunity to reform reforms .
greek prime minister antonis samaras must convince the greek people that he is serious about implementing reforms .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy and portuguese finance minister 加斯帕 加斯帕 deserve greater support .
we should also hope that italy ’ s caretaker prime minister , mario monti , is participating in the next election .
these leaders know what must be done .
instead , france has not noticed the writing on the wall .
president françois hollande wants to address france ’ s problems with growth programs .
but when politicians say “ growth , ” they actually mean “ money . ”
and that is what france needs most .
france ’ s debt/gdp ratio is already around 90 % , even though its budget deficit in 2013 is no more than 3.5 % , and its debt/gdp ratio will rise to 93 % by the end of the year .
the government ’ s gdp share is at 56 % of the highest in the eurozone , ranking second among all developed countries .
not only movie actors like 德帕迪 are missing out to avoid high taxes ; industry has the feeling .
france ’ s 的 carmakers are struggling to survive .
indeed , france ’ s manufacturing share of gdp has fallen to 9 % , below the united kingdom ( 10 % ) , and less than half of germany ’ s ( 20 % ) .
france ’ s current account is slipping into a deeper deficit hole .
unemployment is also creating a record .
france ’ s fundamental problem is that the euro ’ s underlying problem is that the cheap credit that the euro has brought to the fore is fueling inflationary bubbles and thus undermining its competitiveness .
goldman sachs calculated that france must maintain 20 % cheaper to sustain its debt sustainably .
the same is true of spain , which needs 10-15 % of the price of prices , and domestic prices in greece and portugal need to fall 30 % and 35 % , respectively .
so far , however , there has been virtually no progress on this front .
worse still , some troubled economies ’ inflation rates are still higher than their trading partners .
eurozone politicians tend to believe that it will regain competitiveness by implementing reforms , infrastructure projects , and improving productivity , and reducing domestic prices .
this is wrong , because these measures improve competitiveness only because they reduce domestic prices relative to eurozone competitors .
as long as these countries remain in the eurozone , they can not reduce their relative domestic prices : either they are deflationary or their trading partners will inflate faster .
there is no easy or socially comfortable way to achieve this .
in some cases , the risk is significant , and it may even be impossible .
the gap between the ability to restore competitiveness and what citizens can endure is too big to be found .
for an orderly devaluation , a country ’ s inflation rate must be below its competitors , but that can be achieved only through a recession .
the more trade unions struggle to maintain existing wage structures , the lower the productivity growth and the longer the recession becomes .
spain and france will need a decade of recession , in which they are less than 2 % below their competitors in the year preceding year .
for italy , the path to competitiveness is shorter , but the roads of portugal and greece are much longer – probably too long .
italy , france , and spain should be able to regain competitiveness within the eurozone for the foreseeable period .
after all , from 1995 ( a year when the euro was explicitly announced ) to 2008 ( the year of the global financial crisis ) , germany fell by 22 % relative to its eurozone trading partners .
a decade ago , germany , like france today , is europe ’ s sick .
it has experienced rising unemployment and inadequate investment .
most of the savings are invested abroad , the lowest in the oecd countries .
under pressure , schröder ’ s social-democratic government decided in 2003 to eliminate millions of germans ’ unemployment benefits , paving the way for a low-wage sector , which in turn reduced the inflation rate .
unfortunately , so far , the crisis countries – led by france – have yet to show ready for the bullet .
the longer they feel disillusioned with magic , the longer the euro crisis will be .
a new science
this summer , an unusual scientist at the conference in paris brought together scientists from around the world to discuss the need to create new science , and the new science that they discussed may be revolutionary , as einstein ’ s discovery a century ago discovered .
most scientists believe that basic science is known for humans .
the conventional wisdom , however , is that little has been found for what we have yet to discover .
the only question can be divided into three groups : “ important scientific challenges , ” such as the united states , which is at a very high level and 电学 , will require not only massive investment , but also first-rate research , as well as the actual work of “ scientific information . ”
beyond that , many believe that how to use existing laws to benefit humans from new technologies is the only hard work .
who can argue differently ?
after all , today ’ s model is successful .
but some scientists have begun to point out that existing theories can not fully explain some phenomena .
this missing scientific rule is to describe processes , and how the system evolves .
we have a very deep understanding of the single discipline .
physics , at least in the physics of our ordinary people , has built a comprehensive structure .
chemistry and biochemistry are similarly solid – though the body is unknown , but widespread perception is that we have a basic method of responding to cells and molecules .
a little more than a little more , the new social sciences , people , and societies are research fields .
in any area where physics , biochemistry , and social science are mature , the theoretical structure has been mature and there are too many 疑义 .
each discipline has its own language and mechanics .
few scientists have a variety of areas , because they are very different from both areas .
this means that we can not answer the interdisciplinary question .
the brain , for example , is composed of molecules that interact with the laws of physics , and the delivery of information follows from the laws of 电学 .
there is also a system of specialized cells , with the kind of 化学物质 chemicals taking place .
the interaction between the brain adds a new field : here , information is spread through language , symbolism , and ideas .
we have an abundance of information at every level , with a reasonably well informed interpretation of each level .
but information is being exchanged at different levels .
even in the most fundamental areas , there is no scientific explanation .
to address this problem , some scientists have tried to restructure a level at some level and apply them to other areas .
the “ language ” of the cell ’ s “ language ” and the “ energy ” of organized societies emerged .
some of this transplant can succeed , but do not solve the core problem : what features the information that can be transmitted across different levels , and how is it delivered ?
indeed , almost every system in the world has a different level .
in any case , there is a lack of understanding of how the system works .
the interdisciplinary scientist in paris is loosely affiliated with the “ foundations of information science . ”
they have been working together for eight years , from a range of countries and different specialties .
like relevant professional scientists , art theorists , psychiatrists , languages , and philosophers are beginning to join the discussion .
most groups sent great hopes to “ transplant ” strategies : the basic science of one at one level , while adjusting or supplementing , so that they can function .
others consider a new approach .
they believe that many scientific conventions are a coincidence of history , and new abstractions can be devised .
if the foundations of science are more fortunate , there will be no new idea that thinkers with first-rate research devices will be available .
independent thinking is often underestimated .
almost all of the activities that have reached the “ science ” of the “ science ” are associated with institutional convergence .
many people who believe in science are undergoing a revolution , and many of these ideas , sometimes revolutionary , are never linked to laboratories and research centers .
for almost two decades , the most advanced ideas of mathematical algorithms have come from a soviet empire with no computing power .
the wisdom of nearly two generations of the most intelligent and influential physical thinking is not that it is today , but budapest ’ s research .
iran has a tradition of architectural design , with major insights from cognitive scientists .
even today , the latest ideas of artificial intelligence ( so-called “ autonomous agents ” ) are 孵化 in prague .
the most creative breakthroughs are often 一举成名 .
when einstein was integrating new ideas into the physical discipline , the notion of time of time has changed dramatically .
the foundations of the information science in july are the beginning of this way of restoring the universe in this way .
scientists find the gaps that need to be explained , and they will absorb more thinkers , including scientists from the need to innovate .
following that , they will determine what new science might solve , with new discoveries .
a new sino-american relationship ?
with the end of the us-china strategic economic dialogue , a new atmosphere has emerged between the two countries , but will the “ honeymoon ” in both countries arrive ?
the most fruitful outcome of this talks is on global climate issues .
on this front , two us officials are secretary of energy steven chu and secretary of commerce gary locke .
chu was the berkeley professor of physics and stanford university , and gary berkeley is the former washington state governor , who has long been working to normalize trade relations with the us .
both have a practical and soft diplomatic ethos , which is the choice china ’ s leaders want to engage in : academic background from the academic background , advanced literacy , and the nobel laureate ’ s nobel laureate , one of the five most chinese who have not been chinese .
china ’ s media are on this front , because they were the first ethnic chinese to become us cabinet secretaries .
the vast majority of china ’ s newspapers will be fascinated by front-page headlines , while the title of beijing says that it is careful , “ don ’ t get visiting visiting ministers as 走亲戚 , ” and warned that , “ it seems to be the “ 华裔 ” and “ the us . ”
on both counts , however , the opposite is a summary . ”
when chu and chu have made his speech on energy and climate change , 清华大学 是 , china ’ s top professional institution , is a top priority for chu ’ s parents .
in both cases , he was warmly welcomed , surrounded by crowded people and long applause , and the chinese have two contradictory views : chinese government officials and chinese who have the same common authority .
chu and locke are aware that the us and china are now the world ’ s largest emitter of greenhouse gases , and the two countries must find a way to cooperate .
in his speech , the current global climate problem argues that the current global climate problem is “ very severe , ” and that we must be united .
“ i admit that the developed world is indeed the master of the problem , ” he said to his 听众 audience , “ only to make matters worse . ”
in the joint research project of the united states and china , clean energy describes the “ biggest opportunity of our time in us-china relations , ” and says that “ unity is better than it is . ”
but should we ask not just that this new kind of collaboration is strong enough to resolve the two countries ’ long-held distrust , but also the new imbalances that china ’ s economy has brought to a rapid rise ?
while the us has long benefited from the “ melting pot ” ( which obama ’ s cabinet does represent a broader ethnic background ) , the mainstream american society has been in a position to move outward to power centers .
in particular , for ethnic chinese , doubts about “ which country ” and the “ fifth column ” have been maintained .
a recent example is the “ 李文和 case , ” a scientist who has been 洛斯阿拉莫斯 at the national laboratory , which was made more explicit about the “ 阴阳 ” of american society and a sensitive position on ethnic minorities .
the chinese government , too , refuses to budge .
china ’ s recent demand that the us cut emissions by 40 % of its emissions in 1990 while using us gdp to finance china ’ s and other developing countries would be needed to fund emissions reductions in china and other developing countries .
but the recent “ 瓦克斯 bill , ” adopted by the us house of representatives , requires only 3.6 % of the us reduction in emissions levels in 1990 .
so it is too early to say that understanding mutual understanding between the us and china is actually premature .
add to that india ’ s opposition to us secretary of state hillary clinton ’ s position on climate change , which makes a sense of solidarity in developing countries .
then there is obama ’ s trip to beijing this november .
if all of the friendly atmosphere can not be put in place , and the hard-won achievements of the us and china will be lost .
a new start for non-proliferation
vienna – us president barack obama has injected new momentum into his efforts to halt nuclear disarmament for a decade .
he has made a promise of a world without nuclear weapons and acknowledges the link between nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament .
obama has said that he would restore the restoration of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) , which was restored in 1970 , aimed at preventing proliferation of nuclear weapons .
the nuclear non-proliferation regime , based on the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) , is in disarray , with the main problem .
one problem is that the five main nuclear weapons have not taken seriously the npt ’ s obligations on nuclear disarmament .
instead , they insist that nuclear weapons are vital to their security , and are still modernizing their nuclear arsenals .
this naturally lost the moral authority to convince others not to acquire nuclear weapons , while nuclear weapons are still viewed as a source of power and influence , and a insurance policy that prevents attacks .
second , as we have seen in the case of north korea , there is no way to retreat from the npt ’ s signatories when they declared that the “ very big event ” has already threatened its high interests .
third , the international atomic energy agency , which is perceived as supportive of non-proliferation , is being underfunded .
when the international atomic energy agency is in secret in determining whether a country is engaged in secret nuclear weapons , the iaea inspectors often felt powerless , or because they lack the legal authority to enter into place in which they are deemed to have had to be examined , or because the agency can not acquire an adequate satellite image .
fourth , export controls have failed to stop the spread of sensitive nuclear technologies , particularly the complex and seasoned efforts taken by the secret nuclear networks , one of which is a case in point .
nine countries have a nuclear weapon , and , assuming that other countries , especially those in conflict zones , are not 非分之想 , are naive .
moreover , countries with nuclear energy projects have the capacity to do so : when their security is changing , they can produce nuclear weapons in just months , because they have a critical technology – uranium enrichment and reprocessing of plutonium .
if more countries follow suit , this will prove to be the achilles ’ heel of the non-proliferation regime .
the problem is that the international community , led by the united nations security council , is paralyzed by the challenges of international security , not responding effectively to suspected nuclear proliferation cases .
these problems can not be resolved overnight , but many work relatively quickly .
the us and russia are beginning to negotiate a massive reduction in the amount of nuclear warheads that both countries account for 95 % of the global nuclear warhead .
other key steps include the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty into force ; by negotiating a verifiable treaty , the production of fissile materials used to stop weapons purposes ; and to improve the physical safety of the nuclear energy agency , while strengthening the international atomic energy agency .
last month , i presented advice on the international atomic energy agency ’ s board of governors of the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) – the creation of an international atomic energy agency ( 浓缩铀 ) – to ensure that the supply of countries that are needed for nuclear fuel is needed to maintain its nuclear power reactor .
leu can not be used to create weapons .
this type of mechanism will play a key role in the coming decades , as more countries introduce nuclear energy .
this would give countries confidence that they can rely on reliable supplies of fuel to maintain their nuclear power plants , thus no longer need to develop their own uranium-enrichment or reprocessing capacity .
this would help to avoid iran ’ s experience after the 1979 revolution , when the nuclear energy program in the country ’ s planned nuclear energy program was not honored .
thirty years later , we still feel part of the consequences .
leu will open up to countries that exist in the basic , non-discriminatory criteria .
all countries that abide by the nuclear safeguards obligations can gain these materials at market prices .
countries will not be required to abandon the right to develop their own fuel cycles .
the launch of the new 启动资金 bank has been put in place , thanks largely to non-governmental organizations – the “ nuclear threat initiative , ” and initial funding from warren buffett .
but this is only the first step , and the next agreement should be signed , leaving all new enrichment and reprocessing activities to be taken seriously over many countries , and the regulation of all existing facilities will be transferred to the hands of a country .
this is a bold idea , but today we need bold ideas more than ever .
60 years ago , given the cold war ’ s relationship , the opportunity to place the nuclear fuel cycle under many countries under control ; today , the spread of nuclear technology is fueling the growing risk of it in this time .
a new palestinian state for israel and palestine
princeton – consider the two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian issue : the palestinians have the right to return to their homes , and israelis can settle anywhere in the west bank , and jerusalem does not need to be divided .
this is not an ideal solution , but it is creative , a twenty-first-century model of statehood .
us president barack obama ’ s just-completed trip to israel offers an opportunity to explore real new thinking .
with bill clinton almost successful in 2000 , supporters of the israeli-palestinian peace process have been gripped by a mantra : despite solutions , israeli and palestinian leaders who are willing to move toward this direction have never succeeded .
the solution is precisely the deal that clinton pursued : two sovereign states based on the 1967 borders , with the negotiated response to the existing reconciliation model .
this arrangement includes a land corridor in gaza and the west bank ; separating jerusalem in jerusalem and ensuring that everyone can go to religious places ; the palestinians are willing to withdraw their borders ; and the middle east admits of a settlement of the two countries .
but , considering that the palestinians and israelis are willing to agree on such a proposal , the reason is that the solution itself is not supported by both sides .
consider that , as long as a version of the solution is the only solution , the growing encroachment of the israeli state on land and the arab 人口 population will continue to undermine its base .
the window for the two-state solution is rapidly closing ( and , after all , close ) , because the proposal is a problem .
princeton , in 2008 , a philosophical graduate student named russell , a philosophy student for russell ’ s life , was a widely praised speech that was so widely praised for his extension of content in the american journal .
the “ two-state solution to permanent israeli-palestinian peace – a two-state solution research , ” which is supposed to serve as a means for “ the creative thinking of the jews and arabs , ” is to stimulate “ the creative thinking of the jews and arabs . ”
“ two-state condominialism ” is 雅 , but it is quite visionary .
its core view is that israelis and palestinians will be citizens of two independent states , and thus are two separate political regimes .
palestine will be the palestinian people , and israel will be jewish .
but , with “ condominialism , ” palestinians and jews “ will be granted the right to settle the rights of either land on either land , which will constitute a single twin national settlement society . ”
it takes time to think about this .
as 尼利 describes , palestinians “ have the right to settle anywhere within israel , just as jews have the right to settle anywhere within a palestinian state . ”
regardless of where they live , all palestinians are citizens of the palestinian state , all jews are israeli citizens .
these are the rights and responsibilities of national borders , just as the us , for example , meets the needs of foreign personnel ( for example , civilian families in foreign bases ) .
to make this work work , first and foremost , the boundaries of each country ’ s borders – and perhaps on the basis of the 1967 borders .
israeli arabs will be asked to convert their citizenship , national identity , and voting rights – but not to rival sites – to a new palestinian state .
they will have the right to live in israel ’ s right to live with israel ’ s current citizenship , but they will vote in palestinian citizenship .
other palestinians living in israel will receive only the rights and benefits enshrined in palestinian law .
condominialism recognizes the reality of a deep link between israeli settlers in the west bank and other israeli israelis – including roads , water supplies , electricity grids , government structures , and economic relations ( as in israel ’ s israel zone and the palestinian district in jerusalem ) .
in contrast to the isolation and restoration of all of these structures and relationships , it is more effective in building ways that benefit both peoples and economies .
moreover , in many citizens , criminalizing condoms has actually occurred in a world of growing time .
in the 1950 ’ s , the idea that europe had suffered after 40 years of war was forged by the european union , and member states ’ citizens can be free to work freely , while retaining political allegiance and cultural identity , as well as political allegiances and cultural identities .
( in fact , the name of the political process created by the eu , the “ new 功能主义 ” ) , and the cumbersome and 繁琐 “ two-state condominialism ” are in fact .
but french and german politicians began with vision and determination to open up a bold experiment , a single experiment that includes 500 million renminbi .
why shouldn ’ t another ancient divide be a source of statehood ?
interestingly , many young people in the 1950 ’ s , like my belgian mother , enthusiastically supported the vision of a new europe .
today ’ s young israelis and palestinians pride themselves on their entrepreneurialism , despite the various new risks that create new risks .
it would be a landmark act of this generation to support and contribute to innovation politics .
a new american agenda for latin america
mexico city – for the next us president , dealing with the international mess inherited from the bush administration is not a simple task .
while latin america ’ s government is not a priority for obama ’ s administration , the us government continues to ignore the neglect of latin america over the last seven years .
in latin america , there are two obvious political challenges : cuba ’ s impending transformation or a crisis of succession , the region ’ s “ two left ” forces , one of the left , represented by a president of venezuela ’ s hugo chávez .
if the next us administration is hearing latin america with a moment of time to combine its history and the worst in its history : the fastest pace of economic growth since the 1970s , poverty and inequality have become more democratic , and it is politically more politically polarized .
in cuba , fidel castro ’ s eventual disappearance from the scene represents a huge challenge .
the us can no longer continue to fail in the past half-century .
america ’ s demand for a complete shift in democracy as a prerequisite for normalizing relations between the us and cuba is both unrealistic and unpopular .
yet , when it awaits his brother ’ s brother , raúl , who continues to rule , the us is unlikely to ignore cuba ’ s democracy and human rights .
realpolitik and fear of another cuban refugee influx could attract the us to “ china ” and “ vietnam ” solutions to cuba : normalization of diplomatic relations in exchange for economic reform , while addressing internal political change .
but the us should not be allowed to budge on this temptation .
the us , canada , europe , and latin america have established a regional legal system to protect the hemisphere ’ s democratic rule and human rights , which should not be abandoned .
cuba needs to return to a circle of regional powers , but it must accept the rules of the circle .
elections and fair elections may not be the main problem , but they should not be put aside in order to stabilize and self-interest .
while cuba ’ s transformation should begin with the us to lift its trade embargo , all other things should also be conditional on cuba ’ s beginning to address all outstanding issues .
but cuba is just part of what could be called the “ left ” problem in latin america .
indeed , there has been a lot of recent articles about strengthening the latin american left in the last decade .
in fact , there are two lefts in the region : one in chile , brazil , uruguay , central america , and , to some extent , peru ’ s modern , democratic , globalized , and 阿根廷 political spectrum ; and , in the case of mexico , el salvador , nicaragua , cuba , bolivia , and the 左派 left .
some of these “ left ” are in power ; some , like mexico ’ s last controversial presidential election , have just failed to be elected , but they will still be in office .
in the last two years , it is increasingly evident that “ modern ” or “ moderate ” left will govern the country well .
another left has become more extreme and unpredictable than many expected .
the former has no incentive to “ export ” its “ model ” of “ export , ” which has the means and means to do so .
the left is now in retreat from che guevara ’ s dream : not “ one , many vietnamese , ” but “ one , two , venezuelans , ” and the establishment of power through the ballot box and the establishment of an armed self-defense force and a full-fledged political party .
it can obtain all of this funding from venezuela ’ s state-owned oil company , which is needed to implement all of the funds that are misguided in the long run , especially when such policies are carried out by cuban doctors , teachers , and professionals .
for the us president ’ s next president , there is a dilemma : how to improve relations between the us and latin america , and to strengthen the left ’ s way of 干涉主义 interventionist policies , to counter the apparent distinction between the left and the old left .
the best focus on latin america ’ s efforts is self-evident , even if they are not easy to succeed .
these measures will require the creation of the modern left , or the center-right , center-right , or center-right governments that are threatened by the old left , and to make the old left clear that violations of democracy , not adherence to respect for the rule of law , are paid .
for the us , turning back from such challenges is no longer a viable option .
beyond its special concerns ( oil , arms , the trafficking of drugs ) , the us now needs latin america , because resistance to its resistance has existed , and that these resistance has become more malicious since world war ii .
the next us president will have to revive a latin american relationship that has been prepared for the first time since franklin roosevelt ’ s policy neighborhood was restored 70 years ago .
the year of global conflict
davos – in today ’ s world , identifying and managing hot spots , looking for a map , shows that 火点 diplomats are not enough to send to the fire .
to understand today ’ s major conflicts and confrontations , we must recognize the global political environment that leads to them .
the conflict is most likely to produce or continue to be a way of stopping or ending those who can not or will do so .
unfortunately , this will be a defining feature of 2013 .
in the united states , president barack obama ’ s administration will spend most of the time , energy , and politics in order to reduce debt and other domestic affairs unless a foreign policy crisis is directly threatened .
in europe , officials will continue to struggle to restore confidence in the eurozone .
and , in china , though the demand for economic growth and job creation will force new leaders to develop ties with other regions , they will not be much more preoccupied with the complexity of economic reform than in asia .
that is why the world ’ s fires will be 更旺 this year .
this does not mean that the world ’ s powers will not inflict trouble on themselves .
today , governments are more likely to use drones and special forces to deal with their enemies .
the world has become accustomed to us drone attacks on afghanistan , pakistan , and yemen , but recent reports suggest that china and japan are also investing in drones – in part , in the first place .
these technological innovations have reduced the cost and risks of attacks , thereby increasing the likelihood of military action .
that is why large and well-funded governments – and some of the resources that are not so strong – are investing in technology and skills .
this form of warfare is more worrying for two reasons .
first , unlike the cold war era ’ s “ mutually assured destruction ” structure , cyber weapons provide an opportunity to provide anonymous attacks on users .
second , technological change ensures that no government can know how much damage its cyber weapons can cause and how much deterrent deterrence is possible , and that only then can it be known .
as a result , countries now publish the risk of a defensive defense force that increases the risk of accidental hostilities .
if john kerry and chuck hagel were confirmed as us secretary of state and secretary of defense , the obama administration raised the question of military intervention by the two .
but the level of investment in the us drone , the network , and other unconventional weaponry will most likely not be reduced .
these technological advances have created the backdrop of competition and hostility in two of the most important geopolitical hotspots .
in the middle east , us and european officials will continue to reject the regional turmoil this year , leaving local powers – turkey , iran , and saudi arabia – competing for regional influence .
the antagonism between moderates and radicals , together with the sunni-shia schism , will occur in several north africa and the middle east .
us officials have reason to believe that , over time , they can reduce their concerns about the region and its problems .
according to current projections , technological innovation in non-traditional energy areas will enable the us to meet more than 80 % of its energy needs by 2020 .
china , on the other hand , will increasingly depend on middle east oil output .
east asia , meanwhile , will remain the potential trouble spot in 2013 .
many of china ’ s neighbors worry that their economic and military expansion will pose a growing threat to their interests and independence , and to the diversity of us security partners and to protect china ’ s poor intentions .
and the us can hope to boost its long-term economic prospects by developing new trading partners in the world ’ s fastest-growing regions , so it is also moving toward asia – even though the us ( and europe ) has been smart about the transatlantic free-trade agreement .
a growing risk is that the new chinese leadership will mean america ’ s deep engagement in the region as a means to contain china ’ s rise and impede chinese growth .
in the region , we have seen a series of worrisome rivalries , such as the 中越 rivalry in the south china sea and the philippines , as well as sino-japanese tensions in the east china sea .
these disputes will not lead to military confrontation this year , but the use of drones and cyber weapons remains real .
the biggest risk in 2013 is that asia ’ s massive economic conflict , which would not only hurt countries directly involved , would also impede global recovery .
the first war on this front has been fired .
last summer , disputes over a series of islands in the east china sea led to the world ’ s second-largest and third-largest economies – china and japan .
the two sides are too far off the war , but chinese officials allowed nationalist protests to erupt , boycotts of japanese goods , and destruction of japanese products .
japan ’ s automobile exports to china fell by nearly 10 % , while china ’ s imports from japan have fallen by nearly 10 % – all of which occurred within a month .
this is a serious blow to the struggling japanese economy .
it is a clear warning for those of us who believe that not the military , tanks , and rockets can cause a heavy price .
the new year ’ s resolutions
new year ’ s resolutions are determined , and this year is particularly pronounced .
at the start of the millennium , world leaders pledged to seek a peaceful solution to the problem of poverty , poverty , and a cleaner environment .
in 2005 , we were prepared to adjust .
a variety of new perceptions , scientific advances , tourism , and global diffusion give us more options to address the world ’ s major problems .
last year , a new disease called sars attack china , the world health organization coordinating national government action , and quickly control dangerous situations , at least for now .
when bill gates donated a $ 1 billion vaccine to poor children , he protected thousands of young people from infectious diseases .
when an agricultural survey called the world ’ s 农林 center found that a tree can help african farmers expand food production , they introduced a new , valuable approach to overcoming food crises in africa .
unfortunately , such examples of global cooperation are rare enough to impress people .
the living conditions of the world ’ s poorest people can be significantly enhanced by our existing knowledge and science level , and millions of people are suffering from malaria , aids , hunger , and living slums .
the problem is not that we lack a solution , but rather our failure to cooperate globally to put them into practice .
un secretary general kofi annan ’ s special adviser to the millennium development goals , which led me to lead a team of scholars and development experts , to identify substantial steps , made me a great privilege .
at the same time , we set the report on the un millennium project , which annan issued on january 17 , 2005 .
and the world ’ s people will be able to see our research “ investment development : complete steps toward completing the millennium development goals . ”
our research results are simple for what we know about what we know .
for each major problem , such as famine , illiteracy , malnutrition , malaria , aids , drought , drought , and so on , there is also a proven solution to the solution .
in turn , these investments could strengthen private industries and boost economic growth .
but that requires a partnership between rich and poor countries around the world .
most important , the richest countries should help the poorest countries take advantage of modern science and technology to solve these major problems .
for example , in recent years , the us spends $ 450 billion in annual military expenditures , while governments spend less than $ 15 billion to help fight disease , educate children , and protect the environment .
this is a mistake , because military hardware alone is not enough to ensure us security .
only shared prosperity can truly bring the planet safe .
the us should invest more in peaceful economic development .
germany , japan , and the rest of the developed world do not have enough to do so , much less than they have promised for poor countries .
in 2002 , all donor countries committed to `` substantive efforts '' to provide 0.7 % of national income to help poor countries develop .
germany , japan , and the us , however , have done so far more than they promised .
citizens around the world have many opportunities in 2005 to insist that their governments keep their promises and complete the millennium project .
our report will be completed in january , when secretary-general kofi annan issued a report in the spring to confirm the concrete steps taken in the new year .
at the same time , an important african commission will present a report to british prime minister tony blair .
later , britain will host the annual g-8 summit in july .
prime minister tony blair has promised that it will work to address poverty and long-term climate change , which is the focus of the summit .
in september , heads of state will meet at the united nations and discuss action plans over the next decade .
the us claims that it helped the world fight poverty , but it spends much money on weapons .
germany and japan say they want a permanent seat in the un security council , but none of them insisted on committing to helping the world ’ s poorest people .
the poorest countries will ask : if germany and japan can not keep their promises , why should they vote to support their members ’ seats ?
so , for the world ’ s richest countries , the smartest alternative is to keep up with the promise of a poor , hungry , and afflicted people .
the road to peace is at hand .
the year 2005 was a year of promises , and the world will fulfill our hopes for the new millennium , we need to recognize that we want to share peace and prosperity .
let us pledge that the rich world can take concrete action to help impoverished , disadvantaged , and painful people .
farewell to it
london – she was dubbed the queen of europe , and it is the leader of the liberal world after us president donald trump ’ s election .
as the eu has gone from crisis to crisis over the past decade , german chancellor angela merkel ’ s steady hand helped to preserve the eu ’ s unity .
the conventional wisdom is that when she leaves the prime minister in the next federal election in 2021 – if her grand coalition collapses – she would be sorely missed .
that is not the case .
in merkel ’ s 13 years , domestic drift and european recession have been domestic .
she has been complacent and failed to address germany ’ s growing economic and security challenges , thereby allowing many crises in europe to fester .
a small country with a long time ago can tolerate her husband , the idea of the management of inaction ; and , for a european dominant state in turbulent times , her behavior was disastrous .
unlike many european countries , germany has enjoyed robust economic growth in the past decade .
but it is hardly merkel ’ s credit .
her four governments never enacted any significant pro-growth reforms .
in their obsession with the budget surplus , they failed to invest in the country ’ s crumbling infrastructure and education system .
merkel has done nothing to convince germany to deal with the threat of its manufacturing core – particularly the automobile industry ’ s digital disruption , which apple ’ s iphone has influenced nokia ’ s impact .
germany will regret that it will not repair its roof when the sun remains shining .
the eurozone crisis has greatly strengthened germany ’ s financial clout within the monetary union .
this gave merkel considerable political power , and she could have used it .
instead , she put germany ’ s narrow near-term interest in a creditor , which led her to make decisions that exacerbate the eurozone crisis , transferring costs to other countries , and obstruct any long-term solution .
merkel is finally responsible for the eu ’ s refusal to restructure greece ’ s debt in 2010 .
she favors lending to european taxpayers to distressed governments to bail out german banks .
her government has demanded that debtor countries respond to financial panics through extreme austerity and painful adjustment , even though germany ’ s current-account surplus is growing .
by finally agreeing to ecb president mario draghi ’ s “ doing everything ” to protect the euro , merkel has done just to save the common currency , while doing nothing to reform a dysfunctional , incomplete monetary union .
to be sure , with trump destroying the liberal international order and the united kingdom , hungary , poland , italy , and other countries , merkel deserves credit for a quiet , reassuring , reassuring voice .
and , while british prime minister theresa may has humiliated himself by kowtowing to trump , merkel has been the liberal liberal values .
likewise , unlike many senior politicians in germany , she has resisted russian president vladimir putin ’ s bullying and aggression .
nonetheless , merkel ’ s tepid leadership makes germany vulnerable to today ’ s nationalist backlash .
the country ’ s economic , political , and geopolitical security is based on three pillars that nationalists want to destroy : the dynamic open market for german exports ; and the united states , which guarantees germany ’ s defense of europe and the world , and the us ’ s nuclear umbrella .
germany is not a trade cheat , as the trump administration claims .
but , under merkel , it has undoubtedly adopted a beggar-thy-neighbor mercantilist policy that suppresses wages and boosts exports at all costs .
true , protectionism is a mistake ; but mercantilism encourages it .
if germany can take more steps to stimulate domestic demand , it is in germany , europe , and the global interest .
likewise , merkel should not be blamed for brexit or many of italy ’ s travails , which are self-inflicted .
but her eurozone policy is a major factor in italy ’ s current populist government , which has vowed to block future eu trade agreements , incite the refugee crisis , and threaten another eurozone panic .
unless germany and italy are happy to share a monetary union , the eurozone will not be safe .
the truth may eventually prove impossible .
but if there is a viable solution , it will require major reforms , as french president emmanuel macron proposed last year .
merkel ’ s spurning of macron ’ s reform , therefore , represents another opportunity to be left behind by germany .
in terms of security , even if merkel recognizes that germany can no longer rely solely on the us to its defense , she has done little to strengthen german or european military capabilities .
german defense spending remains inadequate , which gives trump a pretext to undermine nato .
germany ’ s crumbling military has 坦克车 , 潜 , and 飞机 planes .
there is little discussion on the need for nuclear deterrence , whether in germany or in europe .
so , instead of tragedy , merkel ’ s departure has provided european reformers .
macron and his european allies will be right about the threat posed by the european parliament election in may to the threat posed by populist populists .
but , because macron does not want to offend strong partners , he has so far failed to challenge merkel ’ s flawed european leadership .
as merkel is about to die , he and other reformers have a new chance to promote a different europe for all .
if they do not use her exit , the charlatans of the far right will certainly not let this opportunity slip .
in defense of angela merkel
paris – the recent cover of der spiegel in the cover of german chancellor angela merkel ’ s cover on the cover of german chancellor angela merkel ’ s cover was important : it is at last that it would have been impossible to avoid europe ’ s problems .
the humiliation of germany has been a long time coming .
the cypriot demonstrators in cyprus in march 2013 staged a caricature of merkel as adolf hitler .
at the same time , at the annual 火节 celebration of the 火节 celebration , merkel emerged as the evil of merkel ’ s “ ten commandments ” to the spanish government and ministers .
the 烈焰 of st. joseph 最终 ended up being burned by merkel .
then , of course , there is greece , which reached its climax in october 2012 , when the world witnessed the near-collapse of the 明镜 magazine , which watched the nazis and the german flag .
the italian right ’ s daily daily newspaper , ilham , did not hesitate to turn the headline on august 3 , 2012 , as a “ fourth reich . ”
likewise , conspiracy websites in the nordic countries claim that germany ’ s eagerness to support ukrainian president petro poroshenko against russian president vladimir putin is an attempt to repeat hitler ’ s conquest of ukraine .
then there is france , where there seems to be the contest who will be in the top of the populist denunciations of the new german empire .
marine le pen , the far-right national front leader , condemned merkel for the “ pain ” of the european people .
at the same time , the far-left jean-luc may has spoken loud against merkel ’ s “ austerity ” policies and “ don ’ t speak . ”
the problem is not that it is not stupid , nor is it an ambitious european project of integration that we are before our eyes .
no , the substance of today ’ s problems has turned away from the intent of those who have gone behind , and what they do is not the rise of fascism at the moment , but rather for fascism and loyalty .
there are several reasons for this .
first , germany ’ s opposition to german society , economics , and foreign policy by equating merkel with hitler would be a boon to hitler .
regardless of how legitimate germany ’ s current policies are , germany remains the continent ’ s most serious and exemplary democracy .
the nazi regime , which says that germany is still a symbol of destruction in europe , and even its civilization itself , is in a position to justify the regime ’ s actions , in order to appease and encourage a new fascists in today ’ s neo-fascist world .
making matters worse , and the key question is that those who are most eager to discredit merkel do not hesitate to distance themselves from the neo-nazi neo-nazis , such as athens .
the barrage of so-called german “ 妖魔化 ” has obscured the whereabouts of the fascist parties – including the greek golden dawn party and hungary ’ s 比克 party , as well as the slovak national party , belgium ’ s 法 party , and bulgaria ’ s 党 party .
merkel is also a woman , while hatred of women – racist theorists of the twentieth century – had been the most important expression of fascism .
likewise , in october 2012 , the protesters expressed “ love for your money ” and “ you want to ensure that they do not want to meet the european and national central banks ” – no doubt the old nazi mantra , such as “ 金牛 ” and “ the rich . ”
the anti-americanism that people finally recognize is that the anti-american origins of the extreme right and the anti-american anti-americanism that the philosopher martin 海德格尔 and his followers fueled are fascism .
we should now understand that the same phenomenon is true .
france ’ s anti-semitism , the french anti-semitic novelist and activist maurice 巴雷斯 , who sees the idea of a “ 化 ” in immanuel kant , was launched .
the idea was linked to charles maurras ’ “ french action ” and its war on “ jewish and german abstractions . ”
it has risen with the rise of the group ’ s group , and , to this day , it is still in the hands of the 隐秘 where i am not willing to mention the “ sins ” of prime minister .
the trajectory of ideas is unique , rational , and foolish , with its unconscious but 遵循 trajectory .
denial is dangerous and futile .
that is why , in the face of the dark forces of europe , swelling , and 招摇 , it is essential to defend merkel .
angela merkel , angela merkel
angela merkel is finally germany ’ s new – and first woman – chancellor .
while continuity will remain the key to foreign policy , germany ’ s performance in international affairs and the leadership of schroeder will differ under merkel ’ s leadership .
schröder ’ s representative of the new generation of germans was in power seven years ago , not a “ cold war , ” european integration , not a transatlantic friendship , but a restoration of german unity and national sovereignty .
for him and the team who inherited power from 16 years in office , germany has become a normal country , unlike other countries like france or the united kingdom .
the lesson that schroeder learned is that germany can no longer be despised , and it needs to play a role commensurate with its power .
self-assertion became the watchword of german foreign policy .
as a result , when schröder announced that germany had failed to comply with the budget ceiling set by the eu ’ s stability and growth pact , he seems to be arguing that such restrictions should be applied only to small countries , not large countries .
when he openly opposed us troops in iraq , the pride of the world ’ s only superpower protests is palpable .
when he established close personal and political ties with russian president vladimir putin , his message to the world – and the eu ’ s sensitive new member states - is that germany ’ s foreign policy will no longer be constrained by the past .
in fairness , it should be acknowledged that germany , under schroeder ’ s leadership , eliminated concerns about sending troops overseas .
his support for international peacekeeping operations in kosovo or in afghanistan will require significant political courage , while making germany a major international force for peacekeeping .
one of schroeder ’ s great achievements in his tenure is to remove this issue from domestic ideological battles .
but another message is that germany has grown into a truly international power .
with merkel ’ s leadership , there will be little substantive change in german foreign policy , but the assertive style will be muted .
america ’ s leaders will welcome her election as proof that the bilateral relationship is the norm .
but that does not mean that the bush administration had an important role to play in its ally earlier this year .
merkel will revive the warmth that was missing during schroeder ’ s rule , but she will not be able to lecture the us .
she will not give up the special relationship with russia , which has taken place since konrad adenauer ’ s successive prime ministers .
but she has made clear that germany ’ s eastern european neighbors have no reason to feel alienated .
she could even confirm that message by directing the first official visit to warsaw , rather than in paris or in vilnius .
on the european project , she was as committed to integration as his predecessors .
she will continue to emphasize close ties with france , because she has no choice but to join the eurozone and the schengen border system , and remains an embarrassment for the eu .
but there will be no new impetus for european integration in the case of the leaders who rejected the constitutional treaty .
at that point , merkel will have an important role to play in increasing the weight of the eu ’ s development efforts .
she will continue to encourage the eu to embrace the baltic states , but she is also in no clear position to oppose the position of giving turkey formal membership , a major substantive shift in the period since schroeder ’ s time ( though her government will not block negotiations ) .
in fact , after merkel ’ s election , there is little room for maneuver in foreign policy , at least in the first place .
nevertheless , the task of advancing economic reform will be enough to bring her together , and that is why she is elected .
there are signs that germany is moving out of its long-term economic stagnation , thanks to the reforms initiated in the age of schröder .
at home , merkel has the hope of reaping his reforms .
in foreign countries , merkel has no need to demonstrate that germany is europe ’ s great power ; her partners know it well .
germany , however , is not just a normal country : it is also vital to sustain the international institutions that will continue to guarantee its wellbeing – the european union and the atlantic alliance .
there are signs that merkel is more aware of this than schroeder .
one can only hope that this recognition will be her point when tough decisions are made .
madrid – when albert einstein died in 1955 , the new york times published a letter to a wonderful anecdote .
shortly after the bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki , there was asked einstein : “ why can ’ t we be able to design a corresponding political means to prevent the atomic destruction of our own , we can not design a corresponding political means to prevent atomic destruction from ourselves ?
his answer was eternal : the answer is simple , and my friends , this is because politics is more difficult than physics .
as the former east german student of physics , german chancellor angela merkel was able to prove true that einstein was true of his quip .
i am cautiously convinced that it can be shown , because my own life is a similar path .
as i have done in spain years ago , merkel ’ s response to the collapse of dictatorship was to abandon the physical quest for public services , and eventually in europe ’ s politics .
in the various kinds of public roles that she used to have , and then as prime minister in 13 years , merkel has maintained a coherent and focused style that suits his academic origins .
but the world ’ s politics seems to be at odds with this style , and growing unrest in germany poses a shock to her position .
last month , merkel announced that he would not seek a second term for re-election , and will resign to the christian democratic union by the end of this year .
the race to the successor has begun .
while merkel ’ s successor may well be able to carry out the job , germany and the rest of europe will undoubtedly miss her 沉着 and 稳重 .
much has been said about merkel ’ s failures .
the greatest stain on her record is likely to be the austerity policies imposed by the european union after the global financial crisis .
these policies have exacerbated inequality among countries , deepened the divide between northern and southern members , and slowed economic recovery .
since then , populists – especially italy ’ s five star movement – have been obsessed with the painful legacy of austerity .
likewise , some blame merkel for the rise of far-right parties , including germany ’ s chosen party .
after more than a million refugees in 2015 , merkel became the darling of nationalist anti-immigrant forces throughout europe .
but , needless to say , her support for austerity contrasts sharply with her decision in the worst of the refugee crisis .
in the latter scenario , when other countries do not seem willing to do so , merkel is placing her political future on the defense of european unity .
in a recent speech to the european parliament , merkel once again defended the eu ’ s fundamental values .
she joined french president emmanuel macron – a show of 融洽 in the commemoration of the armistice day in paris – to call for a european army .
as both macron and merkel have made clear , this power is not just compatible with nato ; it will actually strengthen the organization .
not surprisingly , however , merkel ’ s ambitious statements have elicited scorn from euroskeptics , who want to see the eu succumb to despair and political opportunism .
given her announced departure , some have already regarded merkel as a “ lame duck ” in the political obituaries of political obituaries .
but now it is premature : there are good reasons to believe that her european legacy is being built .
to be sure , merkel ’ s successor leader , the cdu ’ s successor , may not be close to her position , and may have injected more instability into the coalition government with the christian social union ( cdu ’ s sister party in bavaria ) and the social democrats .
but even in that case , merkel will survive .
first , a no-confidence vote in germany will not succeed unless an alternative to the bundestag wins .
this has happened only once – the cdu ’ s helmut kohl replaced helmut schmidt , the spd ’ s helmut schmidt in 1982 – and is unlikely to be in the current bundestag .
she remains popular on the international stage .
moreover , she may be freer to seek more active foreign policy since electoral pressures ( at least a direct focus on her ) .
recall that us president barack obama was in his final years in office in foreign policy .
beyond the rapprochement with cuba , the obama administration has reached a nuclear deal with iran and signed the paris climate agreement .
despite trump ’ s attempt to reverse these achievements , he has not yet eliminated them .
for the eu , the alliance ’ s benign function is secured if merkel continues to work to revive the franco-german axis , thereby opening the door to eu-level reforms .
yet there are significant obstacles ahead .
in this era , it is clear that politics is more difficult than physics .
but we would be wise not to underestimate merkel , and to note that einstein ’ s other timeless dictum is “ always hidden in difficult centrists . ”
angela merkel ’ s vision problem
cambridge – as europe struggles to save the euro , complaints about the lack of strong leadership from the world ’ s major economies abound .
many have pointed to german chancellor angela merkel , who believes that she has failed to set a long-term vision for europe as his predecessor and mentor , helmut kohl .
is it right ?
as a good leader , part of the work is to communicate a vision that gives meaning to the relevant policies , and to launch people ’ s support for such policies ( and their advocates ) to support them .
this is also one of the ways to build a common goal among leaders , with one of the means to inject collective action into collective action .
this vision usually identifies the future of change , but it sometimes portrays the status quo – or a glorious past – to resist change .
once a vision is lacking , neither of these approaches will lead .
as ceo 弗里德里克 斯密斯 , ceo of ma , said , “ the top priority is to communicate a vision and values . ”
but the vision must be cautious .
sometimes leaders thought that a vision would solve the most of the problems they face , but the wrong vision – or an ambitious ambition – is that they suffer .
george h.w , george h. w. bush , lost his 大亏 , and even threatened himself .
when confronted with his staff ’ s priorities , he replied , he replied , “ that ’ s not my style . ”
after the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , his son was building a more ambitious vision .
as one former white house adviser pointed out , george w. bush “ obsession with the ambitious ideals of bringing democracy to the middle east , a very different departure from his father ’ s prudent style . ”
but , relative to that , we will find bush ’ s foreign policy better .
some aspiring leaders believe that they must build a vision that can combine their followers with their followers , but in practice we have found that a successful vision usually arises from collective needs , and that leaders are only time to cultivate them and clarify .
for example , martin luther king , king luther king , said that his vision of the “ i have a dream ” not only begins with the mainstream values of equality and inclusion in the united states , but also the bitter experiences of african americans being enslaved and excluded .
moreover , it will be difficult to articulate the pressure of a vision .
as one university president put it , “ everyone asks ‘ what your vision is . ”
the first step is to tell you about your vision . ”
a successful vision must be able to attract many followers and stakeholders .
in a group of popular people , it is not possible to do so in another group .
a successful vision for success must be based on a deep understanding of the situation facing the group .
leaders must get the issue accurately before the answer .
they need to listen not only to their followers , but also to understand the context in which people choose to shape their choices , in order to choose goals and articulate them in a vision .
in short , leaders must assess reality accurately .
the boldness of the vision varies with leadership .
the leaders of social movements are more ambitious than public servants .
a society ’ s leaders can promote a vision far beyond their followers ’ imagined vision , and a prime minister who bears a variety of responsibilities and various responsibilities will have to communicate with the public , so that the vision will not remain in public forever .
former us vice president al gore became a leader who became a leader in the fight against global warming after the 2000 presidential election , and his leadership style has turned from pragmatism to the type of the prophet .
analysts are able to judge whether his vision will be successful in terms of whether the movement ’ s leaders can realistically balance the risks with risk .
there are a lot of options , but effective visions are the product of forward-looking and feasibility .
critics of former british prime minister tony blair have acknowledged that , while the details of a vision lack concern , blair ’ s ability to articulate a vision is one of the great strengths of his leader .
similarly , the two american presidents of the twentieth century – woodrow wilson and george w. bush – were good at articulating a grand foreign policy vision , but they are not good at redefining and modifying the vision when they are blocked .
both want to promote democracy , but they are in a manner that can easily provoke resistance .
of course , prudence is not enough .
sometimes leaders need a break with reality to encourage followers and inspire additional effects , like winston churchill in 1940 .
but without a degree of caution based on this understanding , vision can easily be turned from grandiose to grandiose , harming the values that it seeks .
just as franklin d. roosevelt spoke carefully in the 1930 ’ s to abandon isolationism , merkel is now cautiously saving the euro .
she stood up to the public ’ s skepticism about using german funds to save the greek economy .
her political allies have divided on this issue , and their party lost state elections .
if more radical action is taken , merkel might lose more support , and she will not be able to let the market regain confidence .
in this year , however , she has finally articulated a vision for europe ’ s future , and to persuade the bundestag to agree to save the euro package .
but whether that vision is too late – and whether it is feasible – will be determined in the coming months .
don ’ t
washington , dc – in the wake of the turmoil in ukraine , the united states and russia seem to be watching each other ’ s every move , with the world seemingly sliding into a long-term conflict similar to the cold war .
is it ?
russia accuses the west of supporting a coup in kyiv with “ the terrorists ” and “ terrorists ” in kyiv , with an inter-continental ballistic missile testing , an intercontinental ballistic missile test , and retaining the right to military intervention in eastern ukraine .
but the us also calls for cooperation to resolve the status quo peacefully and declare that ukraine should pursue constructive relations with russia and the west .
so far , russia has dismissed its attitude toward the us .
but this is not the beginning of cold war ii , and russia is not america ’ s rivals .
but it is not an ally .
the two sides disagree on many issues .
but progress on many key international issues – such as syria and iran – can not be made without cooperation .
the challenge is not to try to “ reset ” bilateral relations again , but ( in the aftermath of the crisis in ukraine ) , to find a foundation that allows both sides to collaborate on their interests .
but we must recognize reality .
since 1992 , every us president has sought to redesign the us-russian relationship , beyond the ideological and military competition of the cold war .
but every effort , though possible , ended in disappointment .
one key reason is that there is a fundamental difference between the us and russia in improving the relationship ’ s relationship .
when it comes to assessing these efforts , one thing is true : the us has made the most progress in the region where it is russia that respects its interests .
the first diplomatic reset occurred in the late days of president george w. bush ’ s presidency , making significant progress in reducing the nuclear threat caused by the collapse of the soviet union .
as a result , russia became the only nuclear power nuclear power in the former soviet union , and the us senator richard lugar and richard lugar have helped to ensure that nuclear facilities , scientists , and materials are safe .
the second reset was even more important during clinton ’ s administration : building a comprehensive partnership that promotes broad us involvement in russia ’ s economy and changing political institutions .
it was also easier to persuade russia to support nato intervention in the balkans .
but the second war in kosovo in 1999 led to the reset .
the third reset came from russian president vladimir putin , who helped the us in afghanistan after the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 .
but the bush administration ’ s expectations were very different from putin ’ s .
russia seeks “ equal partnerships between the two sides , ” especially the us recognition of russia ’ s sphere of influence in its neighborhood .
and russia must deal with the iraq war , nato enlargement to the baltic states , and the pro-western revolutions in ukraine , ukraine , and georgia that the bush administration aims to democratize .
the kremlin is deeply concerned about the specter of institutional evolution , especially in its neighborhood .
the reset ended in the 2008 战争 war , when the us regarded russia as a global spoiler .
the obama administration ’ s reset – the fourth since the soviet union ’ s collapse – was the most successful , at least in its first term .
the hope is more realistic and some have achieved results : new start weapons control treaty , tighter sanctions on iran , cooperation on transportation and transportation , and russia ’ s accession to the world trade organization .
but the reset was essentially driven by the personal relationship between obama and medvedev , who , in 2012 , was president dmitri medvedev , who was president in his third term .
the us and russia began to deteriorate when they condemn the us as a protest against his return to the presidency .
the reset ended last august , when the kremlin decided to grant temporary asylum to the us intelligence contractor edward snowden .
the ideological antagonism of the cold war may be , but russia now sees itself as a different civilizational and social model .
the kremlin also views the us as the source of instability in the former soviet space , and blames the west for the turmoil in ukraine .
nonetheless , the us-russian relationship is always divided between the us and russia , with many pressing multilateral issues confronting russia , particularly syria , iran , and afghanistan ( the us will withdraw its troops this year ) .
while the us and russia differ over how to end the syrian civil war , they are working together to bring together syria ’ s chemical weapons .
similarly , neither side wants to see iran develop its nuclear-weapons capability .
over the last two decades , there have been several strong hopes for the two sides , which demonstrated that , after the crisis in ukraine , the us will be more moderate and realistic toward russia .
unless both countries go beyond the cold war , the 1990s , and today ’ s crises , it will be more effectively managed to manage the relationship ’ s relationship with the kremlin or the kremlin .
for the us , this means recognizing russia ’ s status : it is a highly important country , with political systems mixed , with serious domestic economic , demographic , and political challenges .
russia ’ s post-soviet evolution was a multi-decade process , and it is unlikely to be linear .
its worldview is very different from the us , and it will be in the foreseeable future .
but a cold peace is better than the cold war .
pisa ’ s success
paris – the oecd ’ s program for international student assessment ( pisa ) assesses students of students in the best and most educated education systems , providing valuable reform options for how to achieve this .
pisa has focused global policymakers , educators , and researchers , discussing what kind of knowledge and responsible citizens in the world today will require , and how to develop more efficient and inclusive education systems .
some argue that pisa ’ s results are based on too broad a combination of factors , and others lack the connections , others argue that students in different languages and cultural backgrounds are inherently irrational .
of course , comparing education across countries is not easy , but pisa remains the most useful tool for policymakers attempting to improve national education systems .
before pisa , many governments claimed that they had the world ’ s most successful education system , and believed that they had taken the necessary steps to correct all flaws .
pisa assessments have exposed weaknesses in a country ’ s system , thereby helping to ensure that policymakers recognize – and want them to improve – their flaws .
the government ’ s accountability for government and education ministers has helped to spur them to act .
they increasingly learn how to apply innovations in their curricula , teaching , and digital resources ; how to provide personalized learning experiences to maximize students ’ chances of success ; and how to cope with the diversity of teaching .
the oecd will be a global assessment , because in today ’ s globalized world , students must be able to work with people from various backgrounds to accept different ideas , perspectives , and values .
to give students the greatest chance of success , education must be prepared to deal with problems beyond national borders .
but pisa ’ s most important outcome is also at the national level , because it inspires innovation and broadens the country ’ s internal education prospects .
diverse educational systems such as finland , japan , china , and canada – previously rarely policymakers – have become a global reference point for educational performance , helping other countries to design effective reforms .
in the first pisa assessment of the 2000 ’ s , the country ’ s education system was the worst , and many rightly questioned whether it is fair to compare the emerging markets to developed countries like finland and japan .
but brazil rose to the challenge , making significant investments in improving the quality of teaching .
brazil is now the world ’ s most rapidly improving education system .
germany , too , is pisa ’ s 突出者 , whose performance is less than average , and a huge society of educational injustice , which has shocked germans and launched a series of months of public debate .
spurred by stimulus , the government has pursued measures to support weak and immigrant students , and make early education a driver of german education policy .
today , pisa reports confirm that the quality and fairness of germany ’ s education system have made significant progress .
for example , pisa assessments suggest that , while japanese students are reproducing the 复述 knowledge , they often struggle when asked about the need to apply knowledge creatively .
in the last year , the creation of more innovative learning environments was found in the northeast asian schools that had been struck by the 2011 tsunami .
this experience offers another lesson : even if social and cultural factors are the main force shaping a country ’ s trading style , improved space remains .
countries like japan do not need to change their culture to correct education ; they need only adjust policies and practices .
since pisa ’ s initiative in the late 1990 ’ s , global platforms that create education research and innovation have been their intent .
since then , policymakers , researchers , and experts have established the world ’ s largest commitment to the development of robust , reliable , and reliable information about students ’ learning outcomes .
at the same time , pisa measures their students ’ social and emotional skills , as well as educational equity and parental support – all of which are indispensable for understanding scores of global assessments .
of course , assessments do not cover all important skills or attitudes .
but convincing evidence suggests that the knowledge and skills that the pisa system assesses are critical to students ’ future success , and the oecd has been working to expand the range of cognitive and social skills that pisa measures .
pisa has already played a role in promoting global education .
the oecd will continue to work with 80 participating countries , further developing the program , so that it can continue to help policymakers and educators design and implement better education policies – the tools needed to enable citizens to fulfill their lives .
the zero-emissions imperative
davos – the planet is alert .
the 2013 report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change makes it clear that we have emitted the co2 emitted over the last half-century .
we need a more robust approach to global warming to avoid catastrophe .
unlike the recent financial crisis , there is no bailout option for the planet ’ s climate .
three years ago , at the united nations ’ cop 16 climate-change climate change in cancún , countries agreed to reduce their emissions to 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2020 .
but , according to the un estimates , current trends can only enable the world to do just about 25-30 % of the world .
that is why i call for all governments to raise their commitment to fossil fuels in the second half of this century by raising their commitment to fossil fuels .
this goal is impossible without a comprehensive change in the energy economy .
this week , the european commission unveiled the 2030 energy and climate targets – a 40 % reduction in the european union ’ s greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030 , with 27 % of energy coming from renewable sources .
this is an extremely important step , and other countries should follow suit .
to be sure , we will face significant obstacles .
two-thirds of electricity generation and nearly 95 % of energy are spent on transport systems , and from fossil fuels .
our energy security is increasingly tied to the exploitation of unconventional fossil fuels such as shale gas , which is especially true in the us .
in many areas , carbon-intensive technologies are still more profitable than low-carbon alternatives .
cash-strapped governments continue to encourage oil and gas exploration , partly because they enable them to gain rents and amount to large amounts of revenue .
but change may still be .
there is a yawning gap between the promises of climate change and the policy arrows that are often inconsistent ( not to mention contradictory ) .
i believe that we can achieve great and rapid progress if it is clear on three issues .
putting a price on carbon .
by pricing carbon costs , we can manage its use ( or prohibit ) .
more than 40 countries have already implemented some form of carbon tax or emissions-trading schemes .
trading mechanisms are often more politically attractive , because they can be flexible ( though their design and implementation can be improved in many ways ) .
but we can do more .
some governments have managed to introduce carbon taxes without adversely affecting growth , and we should encourage more countries to go along .
cutting fossil-fuel subsidies .
the oecd estimates that , between 2005 and 2011 , fossil-fuel subsidies from member countries amounted to $ 55-90 billion per year .
the international energy agency estimates that fossil-fuel subsidies worldwide grew by $ 544 billion in 2012 .
most of these subsidies should be canceled ; the energy industry does not need more state aid to burn fossil fuels ( and in developing and emerging economies , subsidies are mostly inefficient , and may not help the poor ) .
clear policies are clear .
governments must address inconsistencies in energy strategies , consider the links between energy strategies and broader economic policies , and stop sending contradictory signals to consumers , producers , and investors .
in particular , governments must assess whether to implement the right regulatory arrangements to enable clean-energy investments to compete on the risk-return risk-return basis .
this is essential to enabling investors to gravitate toward climate-friendly alternatives .
the oecd will play its part .
to understand and compare the performance of different countries , oecd economic surveys now include data on climate policy and analysis .
by 2015 , we expected a clear picture of the challenges that are being achieved and the oecd and all major emerging economies still need to confront , and to offer these countries the advice and cost-effectiveness of how they can actually enhance their policies .
these steps will signal a significant increase in the price of emissions to achieve net emissions .
the transformation is not costless , and governments must be honest about their social and economic impact .
but a low-carbon , climate-resilient world must provide new economic opportunities .
more important , the alternative – inaction , or inaction – is much more costly in the long run .
hurricane sandy , for example , has caused the us to lose 0.5 % of its gdp .
by 2050 , global coastal cities could increase to more than $ 50 billion per year .
the situation in developing countries is even more difficult : typhoon haiyan in the philippines in 2013 was a terrible lesson to remind us that poor countries are vulnerable to climate change .
if the world is to avoid a collision between nature and nature – one that is unlikely to win in the fight – we must act decisively on every front , especially in terms of carbon pricing and the coherence of economic and energy policies .
and we must act now .
anger in the us
hong kong – many people attribute current populist revolts in the west to the far right on the far right , with far-right promises to win votes by stoking fear and encouraging extreme tendencies .
two recent studies strike at the heart of the current problem , especially in the us , but also in the rest of the world .
in the new book the fall of the book , steven brzezinski , a journalist ’ s author , pointed out that liberal democracy in the united states is disconnected from the social goals that it advocates , because they protect only a small minority , allowing other vulnerable groups to be exploited by free markets .
in brzezinski ’ s view , this is the result of america ’ s meritocratic system : the best and brightest have the opportunity to climb to the top , but then remove the 登天 , so that they can be rolled out in order to hold democratic institutions and take advantage of their privileges .
according to matthew stewart , he argues , “ the meritocratic class has mastered the old tactics of consolidating wealth , and that the meritocratic class will privilege the privileges of their offspring . ”
in the mid-1980 ’ s , the share of wealth held by the bottom 90 % in the us at the bottom of the mid-1980 ’ s was reached at the bottom of the twentieth century , and the share of their wealth has fallen to 20 % over the next three decades , and the wealth that they lost is almost just 0.1 % .
the 9.9 % – what stewart calls the “ new american aristocracy ” – constitutes a former middle class .
in 1963 , the 90 % of the population needed to increase its wealth sixfold to reach 9.9 % of the middle class ; but , by 2010 , they needed to increase their wealth by 25 % .
as a result , most americans have worked harder than they once did , but living standards are still falling , and , worse , they still have a high level of insurance , and many have not yet insured .
the top 10 % can easily get higher education , giving their children the same privileges as they are ; and 90 % must redouble their efforts to cover high tuition fees , often at a high cost .
the top 10 % will receive first-rate medical services ; the bottom 90 % often do not , or at high cost .
taxation should be a tool for promoting equality .
but the us republican party has been seeking to reduce taxes on the rich , arguing that lowering marginal tax rates would boost investment , employment , and economic growth , thereby enabling the wealth to “ trickle down ” to the rest of society .
in fact , tax cuts for the rich merely entrench their privileges , exacerbating inequality .
making matters worse , the poor actually pay more indirect tax ( including land , real estate , and the consumption tax ) , and the bottom 20 % of americans pay more than twice the state in state taxes .
add to that the challenges of automation and robotics , not to mention the frequent and intense natural disasters that result from climate change , and it is difficult to see why so many people feel so angry .
according to stewart , the middle east ’ s elite “ dominion over the social machine that combines resources from the bottom 90 % to the top 0.1 % , ” happily accepting the “ spoils of the spoils . ”
but the inequality created by this social machine could have serious consequences , for example , by stimulating social discontent and the inability of us to see what it is now seeing in the us .
as the austrian historian walter 沙伊 points out , inequality has historically been eliminated by war , revolution , national collapse , or natural disaster .
if we want to avoid such catastrophic events , the top 10 % will need to be better at promoting the interests of the bottom 90 % , including income , wealth , welfare , and opportunity .
but economic myopia , together with political polarization , has led many to try to divert popular anger in the us into foreign migrants , china , and international trade ( including trade with allies ) .
this leaves the entire world in the midst of an escalating protectionist struggle with no winners .
historically , internal contradictions and imbalances have often led to international conflict .
but this is not inevitable .
instead , the outcome depends on the quality of leadership .
in the united states , for example , both washington , abraham lincoln , and franklin d. roosevelt managed to deal with crises and make the us stronger , because they can recognize that resolving internal divisions must be rooted in national core values , national standing , and long-term development goals .
us president donald trump has skillfully exploited popular anger to advance his own interests and agenda .
but creating anger is not trump , but america ’ s elites , who have created the conditions for the rise of trump for decades .
now that trump is in charge , the situation in the bottom 90 % is likely to worsen further .
his trade protection policy , in particular , would not only fail to help the mass people he deserves ; it would also undermine the sense of fairness and commitment that has historically been shared with leaders .
but the only way to “ make america great again ” is to address internal injustices , not import tariffs and border walls .
rethinking animal agriculture
tasmania – in mid-july , a severe drought decimated crops , some european dairy and dairy farmers were forced to 宰杀 their livestock to reduce the number of animals needed to feed .
in a growing heat wave , a growing number of people are increasingly engaged , and increasingly frequent , desperate decisions will become the norm .
so it is time to start serious discussion about animal agriculture .
animal agriculture is not only vulnerable to the existing and predicted effects of climate change ; it is also one of the main causes of the problem .
in fact , 肉用 and 奶用 animal agriculture accounted for 16.5 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions .
moreover , if we treat climate change as a state of emergency , the impact of serious mitigation in the next 20 years will be even greater .
this is because animal agriculture has produced a third of man-made methane and two-thirds of nitrous oxide emissions – both potent greenhouse gases that are more powerful than carbon dioxide .
beyond climate pollution , as much as 60 % of biodiversity losses are attributable to land-use changes , 80 % of farmland is used to feed animals or grow feed .
the fact that we eat too many animals is also alarming .
we do not need to make great sacrifices .
for example , according to recent research by the british royal institute for international affairs , developed countries are willing to reduce their meat consumption if they are convenient and convenient substitutes for a similar price .
to be clear , i am not suggesting that everyone should be a universal or narrow vegetarian ( though there is no dispute about the environment , which is better for mitigating climate change , and healthier ) .
nor do i think the government should enforce limits on meat consumption .
but if policymakers believe that , for most people in developed countries , reducing the risk of meat is less risky , the benefits are high , and so many cost-effective solutions fuel us .
first , governments can and should stop subsidizing factory farms and the crops that feed factory farming for slaughter .
supporting these polluting and inhumane acts is really like paying companies to undermine emissions targets set by the 2015 paris climate agreement .
instead , governments can and should subsidize subsidies that encourage climate-friendly , 作物 crops such as 豆科植物 .
growing more soybeans , peas , and 扁豆 can help reduce greenhouse-gas emissions , thereby reducing climate change , and farmers can benefit from more resilient crops .
the government can also move from factory meat farms to developing a 开发 “ meat ” and other meat alternative .
“ clean meat ” is nascent , but growth is growing rapidly , and the public reaction was overwhelmingly popular .
nonetheless , as with the fossil-fuel industry , meat industry lobbyists push policymakers to block the 化 of alternatives .
in many countries , lobbyists have managed to ban plants from using 肉基 products .
france , for example , recently banned terms like 素 “ hamburg ” and “ steak ” for only animal meat .
these policies are obviously a barrier to reducing meat consumption , and they contradict the country ’ s commitment to the paris climate goals .
the meat industry ’ s support for these policies gives them and the fossil-fuel industry the same in the same way that only their own profits are .
can producers be a positive force in the transition away from meat ?
for climate policy , food and agriculture should be treated as energy and transport , with clear guidelines for climate change and mitigation .
we have two years from the first major report to track progress in the paris agreement .
countries will have to do what they have done and what to do to reduce emissions .
but if they do not address the production and consumption of meat and dairy , they can not reach a major part of the problem .
meanwhile , european farmers will experience more droughts like this summer , as will food producers in the rest of the world .
farm meat and dairy production will become increasingly difficult , and early 宰杀 will become the new normal .
like fossil fuels , our only choice is to overcome the industry ’ s resistance , changing our food systems , make diets healthier , and more 美味 .
the imf we love ?
cambridge – what does the impact of this crisis have on the international monetary fund ?
just a few months ago , this important but not 爱 institution ( the landmark of post-war global economic arrangements ) seemed destined to fail .
the international monetary fund has long been a scapegoat for the left and the right – for the former , because the organization will focus on fiscal rectitude and economic orthodoxy ; and , for the latter , the fund ’ s role is to bail out heavily indebted countries .
developing countries grudgingly accepted the organization , and developed countries that don ’ t need funds do not need it .
when the world ’ s private capital flows impede the organization ’ s treatment of various resources , the imf seems to be a bad one .
moreover , when some of the group ’ s biggest debtors ( brazil and argentina ) began to return to their debts a few years ago without new borrowers , all seemed to be struck on the last one .
the imf seems to be in addition to losing its raison d ’ être , and has been condemned by the absence of income .
the group would reduce its budget and reduce its size , while the new responsibility ( especially surveillance of “ currency manipulation ” ) has given the fund a greater indication of its ability to prove highly competent .
but this time the crisis is encouraging it .
under the leadership of dominique strauss-kahn , a capable managing director , the imf is one of the world ’ s few official institutions , not behind the curve .
it has responded quickly to countries with “ 合情 ” policies , and it was eager to provide 迅捷 credit to the world ’ s gdp – a gesture that , given the imf ’ s previous conservative attitudes on all fiscal issues , is extraordinary .
and , in the run-up to the g-20 summit in london , the fund thoroughly overhauled its lending policy , emphasizing the consistent conditionality that allowed countries to access their loans .
more significant , the imf has emerged at a meeting in london that has brought more resources , as well as to its new responsibilities .
the g-20 has pledged to double the fund ’ s lending capacity by more than $ 250 billion ( from $ 250 billion to $ 750 billion ) , issuing a new special drawing reserve of $ 250 billion ( a reserve reserve asset ) , and allowed the imf to borrow in the capital market .
the imf is also designated as one of two agencies ( another expanded financial stability forum , now renamed the financial stability board ) , and its responsibility is to provide warning of macroeconomic and fiscal risks , and to publish the policies needed to implement them .
the other good news is that europe has now abandoned their declaration of 任命 the fund ’ s managing director , as americans have said about the world bank ’ s president .
in the future , these senior officials are selected to be selected “ through a process of public , transparent , and superior quality . ”
this would make it better to manage ( though strauss-kahn ’ s leadership is a model ) and will raise the legitimacy of two ministries in the eyes of the developing world .
as a result , the imf now finds itself in the context of the economic universe .
how will it deploy its newfound power ?
the biggest danger that it faces is that it will once again power its power with its capacity .
this was what happened in 1995 , when the imf began to advocate the liberalization of the 资本性 account , and the fiscal rescue package implemented by excessive austerity in asia during the asian financial crisis was tried to reverse asia ’ s economy .
but it remains to be seen whether it has fully internalized these lessons within the organization , and that we need a more market-friendly , 性情 imf to replace the previous hard-line and 教条化 organizations .
one encouraging fact is that developing countries will almost certainly have a larger say in how the imf operates .
this would ensure that the view of poor countries ’ poor countries will receive more votes in the future .
but if the imf ’ s organizational culture fails to change , little will be useful for developing countries ’ greater power alone .
the fund ’ s staff is composed of a small number of smart economists who lack what they lack to understand and correctly evaluate the institutions that they have studied .
their professional qualities are based on their 高等学历 , not by their achievements in actual policy decisions .
this breeds arrogance and a sense of smug superiority that transcends its colleagues – those who must weigh in multiple complex agendas .
to address these problems requires active action among the imf ’ s top leadership , such as recruiting talent , management of employees , and promotion of job promotion .
one solution could be to increase the number of middle-skill workers who have practical experience in developing countries .
in theory , the imf ’ s staff would be more cognizant of the fund ’ s staff .
another strategy would be to relocate the entire workforce to the “ regional work ” of the field , including those working in the ministry .
for employees who are accustomed to 趾高气昂 in washington , dc , such a move would be a substantial amount of resistance .
but there is no better way to appreciate the right place to appreciate .
the world bank , which recently conducted a similar division of power , was finally in the service of better service customers ( without difficulties recruiting on the 高级人才 ) .
this is an important moment for the imf .
the international community is ready to wait for the imf ’ s decisions and performance .
to trust fully , the imf will need to organize internal reforms .
leveling up afghanistan
new york – afghanistan ’ s security and political landscape remains plagued by uncertainty , stemming from the withdrawal of us and nato combat forces , the upcoming presidential election , and the stalled peace talks with the taliban .
recognizing that sustained economic insecurity will exacerbate this dangerous situation , the afghan government announced a new initiative aimed at attracting foreign direct investment ( fdi ) .
the plan includes a land of land that is at very low prices , a tax for the largest seven years of the factory , and low-interest loans for the longest decade for farmers .
these incentives are aimed at foreign investors and local elites , seeking to prevent or even reverse capital flight .
but the new measures will eventually go to the same thing : a divided policy approach will not be enough to address afghanistan ’ s fundamental economic problems .
at the early stages of the post-war transition , fdi rose rapidly , from 1.2 % of gdp in 2002 to 4.3 % in 2005 .
most of these inflows have entered the construction and services sectors – the main engine of gdp growth – aimed at meeting international civilian and military needs .
but , in 2007-2008 , fdi levels began to fall , owing to deteriorating security conditions , inadequate electricity and infrastructure , and inadequate legal and regulatory systems , inadequate legal and regulatory systems , and an updated system of firms every year .
land grabs , stubborn corruption , impunity , enforcement of contracts , and a decentralized and inefficient approach to the implementation of contracts , as well as the spread and ineffectiveness of foreign and domestic investment , fell to 0.5 % of gdp in 2011-2012 .
moreover , in the process of developing one of the world ’ s largest mines , investors ’ greed prevailed over safety and business climate concerns .
in 2007 , the 中冶 group won the extraction permits of a copper copper mine .
but , despite all of the billions of dollars in prices , high hopes , investment , and little progress , there is little progress on security .
making matters worse , the displacement of residents , 克扣 , and environmental damage has already raised resistance to local communities , and may even increase further .
after all , putting mineral resources to foreigners hurts , or even eliminated , their benefits to locals .
as it stands , afghanistan ’ s economy is like a house of cards .
aid levels are comparable to gdp , which covers roughly two-thirds of government spending and a current-account deficit ( 40 % of gdp ) .
but aid is shrinking , and it is expected to shrink sharply after 2014 .
instead of continuing to pursue piecemeal measures ( such as those recently approved ) , governments need to implement comprehensive , targeted strategies that revitalize investment , employment , and trade .
indeed , a major shift in policy is necessary to avoid economic collapse .
to reduce the risks of investing in afghanistan , governments must build institutions that favor local communities and foreign investors .
this could be achieved through a strategy based on two different but mutually beneficial “ reconstruction zones ” : export-oriented zones and 生产区 zones .
export-oriented zones focus only on producing exports , which should provide tax incentives , basic infrastructure , and services , security , and stable legal frameworks .
in exchange , investors should have promised to train local workers , create jobs by purchasing local inputs and services , improve corporate behavior and local suppliers , and establish links with local 技术学校 and universities .
the 生产区 region should make local people better off through agricultural production , providing efficient services , and light manufacturing .
this mechanism should also boost gender equality by providing an equitable share of all afghans providing security , social services , infrastructure , credit , and inputs ( such as seeds , fertilizers , and agricultural machinery ) .
moreover , it should boost food supply and reduce its exorbitant dependence on imports .
afghanistan , which focuses exclusively on foreigners and local elites , lost its potential for small firms in stabilizing gdp growth .
achieving long-overdue peace and stability can not be achieved .
an inconvenient peace prize
this year ’ s nobel peace prize gave the thousands of scientists the un intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) .
these scientists are working hard to determine the precise impact of climate change on the world .
another winner , former us president al gore , spent many time telling us that we should worry about the issues that should be feared .
the ipcc ’ s forecast and conclusions are based on serious research , and gore seems not to be subject to similar constraints .
gore told the world in his film , the film that recently considered the world ’ s sea-level rise by 20 feet .
he has clearly missed the findings of the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , which he has received , concluded that the sea-level rise of the sea-level rise will only be around two feet in the near future , and they are expected to be around the same foot .
this is similar to what the world has experienced over the past 150 years .
similarly , al gore ’ s ice sheet , the melting of greenland ’ s ice and the consequences that it will inflict on the planet , ignores the conclusion that intergovernmental panel on climate change will rise by the end of the century .
gore also failed to note that the research showing greenland ’ s temperatures in 1941 is higher than today .
gore also frets about the future of polar bears .
he claims they are drowning because of the disappearance of habitat .
the man who has emerged as a film for the production of the film is expected to lose sleep because of the number of people expected to die .
the flip side of this story makes sense : rising temperatures will reduce the heat of a cold weather , which is a much bigger killer than heat .
reliable research shows that , by 2050 , heat will kill more than 400,000 lives , but the number of people dying in cold times is less than 180 million .
indeed , according to the first comprehensive survey of economic impact on climate change , global warming will actually save lives .
the ipcc has convincingly said that if gore had received the nobel peace prize alone , he would be happy .
i am pleased that he was not , and the un intergovernmental panel on climate change has been given fair acceptance .
gore has helped the world .
unfortunately , our attention has been distracted by what really matters .
climate change is not the only challenge facing the world today .
our myopic focus on the problem is little attention to the other challenges facing the planet , which will be exacerbated by gore ’ s nobel peace prize .
gore has appealed to world leaders ’ reductions in co2 emissions , but other policies can do more to the planet .
in the coming century , developing countries will increasingly depend on food imports from developed countries .
this is not the result of global warming , but the consequences of developing countries ’ populations and less arable land .
the number of hungry people is more of a population and income than a climate-related phenomenon .
a huge effort to reduce carbon emissions is likely to lead to more malnourished people .
if our goal is to fight malnutrition , it would be more effective to deliver nutrition to those who need it to save more than $ 50 trillion in carbon emissions .
similarly , global warming may increase the incidence of malaria slightly , but reducing co2 emissions is far less effective in fighting the disease than by bed nets and drugs , which can cost 85 million lives a year .
the kyoto protocol would have to prevent only 1,400 people from malaria every year .
when we worry about the impact of climate change on the future , we will not solve the problems facing the planet today .
this year , some four million people die from malnutrition , 1.3 million died from aids , and 2.5 million people die from indoor air pollution , and 25 million people die from indoor air pollution , with no micronutrients and clean drinking water .
given that attention and money are limited , what we should do is to use the best solutions to solve the problem , and to do the most good in the century .
if we focus on solving today ’ s problems , we will make society more resilient , economically dynamic , and more developed .
that would make these industries better equipped to cope with future problems , including global warming .
focusing on massive reductions in carbon emissions will only make our descendants poorer and lack the capacity to adapt to challenges .
gore is adamant that climate change is the biggest challenge facing the world .
to be fair , he deserves some form of certainty for his resolute passion .
yet the contrast between this year ’ s nobel winners is stronger .
the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change is convinced that it is meticulous research .
gore ’ s approach is entirely different .
lahore – during his visit to islamabad in 2005 , i met with pakistan ’ s then-president pervez musharraf and sent him to a dialogue between me and indian prime minister manmohan singh .
india ’ s leaders , whom i have known for years , talked about a better india-pakistan relationship as a political legacy with future generations .
musharraf ’ s response was interesting .
he says that he will have the same will , but that will require a concerted effort to do so .
“ i have invited singh to visit pakistan , and i have said that there is little to return to his native mother , 数里 外察 , a village in islamabad , islamabad . ”
“ we ’ re not . ”
i made his response to the 转述 of singh , and singh explained that , in a democracy like india , the prime minister ’ s visit to pakistan must be met with coalition members and senior officials , whereas “ musharraf is a military leader , a military leader . ”
musharraf , too , has embarked on a trip to india a few months later .
at the time , when he forced singh to invite a visit to new delhi in 2005 , india ’ s government spent a long time studying how to respond to musharraf ’ s demands .
when this response was finally published , it carried singh ’ s passionate zeal .
at the end of a speech to india ( the parliament ’ s house of commons ) , singh issued his official invitation : “ will he be able to live with the 庄严 of the cricket athletes in south asia , just as a 体育精神 of the 板球 of the south asian subcontinent ? ”
he then said , “ i am pleased that the respected mps , i decided to invite pakistani president pervez musharraf to watch the cricket match between the two countries . ”
my best hope is that people in neighboring countries and their leaders will visit us whenever they do .
whether it looks like a cricket match , or shopping , or 探亲访友 – india is proud of its own society and economy .
i hope musharraf and his family are happy to be happy . ”
the statement that singh ’ s aides feared was that he would invite derision .
musharraf finally went to a Ferozeshah cricket field in delhi and saw the pakistani team ’ s victory .
and he and singh used the game to talk about bilateral relations , and agree to launch a “ comprehensive dialogue ” to discuss the eight controversial issues that have plagued the relationship .
three years later , a terrorist group in pakistan killed more than 160 lives in mumbai , india ’ s financial center , killing more than 160 lives – and killed the diplomatic situation initiated by the cricket race .
yet now cricket has revived dialogue between the sub-continent ’ s two nuclear-armed rivals .
this time , however , it was singh , first proposed by singh , to invite pakistani prime minister yusuf raza gilani to visit new delhi and watch the cricket world cup in march 30 , with the result of a small number of young americans losing only small computers .
at the political level , however , the two countries have failed to do so .
the authority of prime minister narendra modi in the three giants of pakistan , prime minister , and the chief of staff is minimal .
it is gilani who now sat at singh to watch the game , and the ultimate decision to do so is not a diplomatic compass , but a domestic political process .
after the match , singh argued that “ india and pakistan should work together to find cooperative solutions , and to achieve permanent reconciliation to ensure dignified coexistence . ”
we should put past grievances on the side of the past , together with the difficulties confronting them .
gilani expressed the same view : “ we need to focus on dealing with a common enemy – inflation , poverty , hunger , disease , and unemployment – and thus prosperity . ”
there are now signs of a gradual thaw .
senior officials in departments like the two countries , defense , and foreign affairs will meet in the two months of the foreign talks .
and that is a very positive and inspiring spirit created by today ’ s meeting . ”
we have gone to this point , and the prospects for improving india-pakistan relations are buried .
there is no guarantee that this time will be different , but for both countries , hopes will never be overwhelming .
the burden of imbalances
economic prosperity in china and india helps to mitigate global imbalances .
over the past two decades , indians and chinese have narrowed their gap with the rich countries .
but , at the same time , many of the world ’ s truly poor countries have become far poorer ( especially in africa , where development is often described as disaster ) , and inequality within most countries has become more serious .
widening inequality has been recorded in the us ( beginning with the reagan administration ) , the united kingdom ( which began with margaret thatcher ’ s government ) , and , more recently , in russia and india .
these developments seem to have exacerbated global imbalances .
as a result , global imbalances seem to have remained relatively stable over the past 20 years .
should we act accordingly ?
many believe that global action to respond to economic imbalances is unnecessary .
they argue that only poverty reduction matters .
according to anne krueger , the deputy managing director of the international monetary fund , “ the poor are eager to improve their material … rather than leap forward on the income distribution . ”
so , even if the gap in per capita income in the us and africa is widening , what is worried ?
after all , this view would say that ordinary africans have improved poverty .
but this assumption assumes that we are not irrelevant to the relative incomes of others .
on the contrary , psychological research invariably shows that people do not just value their absolute income , but also their place in social pyramid and whether this position is fair .
in the past , a poor africans may look at their fellow citizens ’ wealth in their eyes ; now he and his wealthy compatriots look at the income gap between their rich and rich worlds .
with people working on different nationalities , just as in many multinational companies , such a gap is even more pronounced .
a “ foreign worker ” is likely to be a factor of ten times the same local employees working in the same jobs .
a wage premium based solely on nationality is objectionable .
but , even if people do not work together , the world brought the world to everyone ’ s 起居室 ( or 茅舍 ) , enabling them to compare their living standards even more widely .
this brings us to the relatively safe 茧 of the rich world .
now , the income gap is clear .
that is why international action is needed to address global poverty and global imbalances .
the idea that a global redistribution through taxation through tax revenues seems to be a chimera seems fanciful today , but the logic of development that we have witnessed – especially the erosion of the nation-state as a sovereign vehicle – implies that this ideal is likely to materialize .
we missed one such opportunity in the early 1990 ’ s .
when russia faced its worst crisis , economic aid was given corrupt yeltsin .
a international organization could have been able to distribute cash grants to those with a country of 20 million pensioners – money that would have been better targeted by the russian state than it was to the government .
if that were done at the time , russians could have made cash aid from the international community , rather than blaming the latter for corrupt leaders .
but similar measures could be implemented in many countries , from angola to zimbabwe .
such a move would be simple and powerful .
it includes three steps : raise money from the global rich , not to deal with governments , and directly transfer funds to the poor in cash .
those who advocate globalization only in the private sector may resent the idea of a global institution that will give a global institution .
but they are unlikely to notice that the process that they support undermines their own interests , making the difference in the distribution of wealth more obvious , and that the distribution of real global ( wealth ) distribution is more dubious .
they will eventually realize that their interests lie in supporting some form of action against global poverty and inequality .
the inflation check
cambridge – as inflation rises around the world , it may be a wake-up call for countries ’ central bankers to awaken themselves to complacency .
is it possible to place them at the 超级 zimbabwe meeting for every two months ?
this may not be comfortable , but it is educational .
according to the official estimate of zimbabwe ’ s official statistical agency , the country ’ s inflation rate was 66000 % in 2007 , and , rather than today , it is a weimar country .
although no one knows exactly how the government is expected to estimate prices , most indicators suggest that zimbabwe is very likely to break the world record of inflation .
of course , while heads of state are somewhat curious , they can be considered too inconvenient and politically unpalatable in zambia .
fortunately , there are many other good , albeit less spectacular , inflation places .
inflation is double-digit in russia , vietnam , argentina , and venezuela alone .
indeed , in addition to being plagued by deflation , the state ’ s presidents can meet with a high degree of inflation at a high level .
the chinese authorities are so worried about the country ’ s 7 % inflation , following india ’ s control of food prices .
even if the us reached 4 % inflation last year , the fed was somehow convinced that most people will not notice .
many presidents and economists argue that the rise in global inflation today is simply a temporary aberration , with the surge in food , fuel , and other commodity prices fueling this phenomenon .
indeed , the prices of many major commodities have increased by 25 % since the beginning of the year .
but if the governor believes that today ’ s inflation is just the result of short-term resource flows , not loose monetary policy , they are wrong .
the fact is that , in most parts of the world , inflation is expected to rise , unless central banks start tightening their monetary policies .
the us is now central to global inflation .
the fed faces the twin pressure of a collapsing house price crash and implosion of credit markets , and has been aggressively cutting interest rates to avoid a recession .
but even if the fed does not recognize it in its forecast , the price of this “ insurance policy ” will almost certainly be higher inflation in the coming years .
if so many other countries , from the middle east to asia , actually peg their currencies to the dollar , inflation in the us may be manageable .
other countries , such as russia and argentina , do not actually tie their currencies to the dollar , but try to smooth the currency fluctuations .
america ’ s lax monetary policy has thus broadly set the pace of global economic inflation , and could reach 60 % .
but the economies of much of the middle east and asia are healthier than the us , and inflation in most emerging-market economies has risen sharply , with aggressive monetary stimulus being the last thing they need .
the ecb is now stable , but it may even suppress higher interest rates , partly owing to the fear that it is already in a record-high euro .
and the ecb worries that if america ’ s recession hit his country , it may have to transform its policies and start cutting interest rates .
so what happens next ?
if america ’ s recession becomes a deep recession , the global deflationary impact will offset some of the inflationary pressures that the world faces .
global commodity prices will collapse , and many commodity and services prices will stop so rapidly as unemployment and excess capacity grow .
of course , the us recession will also bring further fed interest-rate cuts , which would then increase the problem .
but if america ’ s recession continues and global growth remains strong , inflationary pressures will be even worse .
in this case , inflation would be easily reached in the 1980 ’ s if it were not to reach the world ’ s 1970 ’ s .
until now , most investors believe that they would rather risk a few years of inflation than they would have been in a few years .
but they also conveniently forget the costs of high inflation and the difficulty of pushing inflation out of the system .
perhaps they should be holding a conference in zimbabwe for a meeting .
a 情报战 情报战
terrorism is an existential threat .
in our `` european security strategy , '' terrorism is seen as one of the key strategic threats facing the eu , and we are using all available methods , particularly in intelligence services .
the first objective of intelligence is to find terrorists , prevent them from acting , and track them after their attacks .
this is the intelligence of military action , and it is better at the national level .
many of the terrorists in europe , and many of the terrorists who have thwarted terrorist operations , are the result of eu member states ’ intelligence services .
the recent journalists ask me whether cooperation between institutions is enough , and whether europe should build a mechanism for sharing military intelligence .
as a result , five european countries arrested more than a dozen terrorists in a joint effort .
the success of this operation is no accident .
last year , the eu signed two europol deals , as well as an extradition and mutual jurisdiction .
europe ’ s security services are working closely together in counter-terrorist organizations , and europol ’ s counter-terrorist task group has been re-established .
a high-level organization for border and transport is working , and links between member states ’ police chiefs are strengthening .
but widespread sharing is not always necessary or appropriate .
member states also need intelligence from ongoing cases , not to provide information to the design of policies , at least not directly , but to undermine and eliminate terrorist attacks .
these intelligence is more sensitive in many ways , and ministries should share the foundations of `` knowledge , '' rather than to promote cooperation .
i also found the other role of intelligence : providing information to political action .
we have only learned the right policies to develop appropriate policies .
to this end , we need good strategic assessments of intelligence .
the eu ’ s member states have a mechanism for this , through their support and input , and we are building a europe-wide mechanism for eu policymakers .
europol has the material to work from the police , and we need to work hard to ensure that these efforts are coordinated .
this is a different level of intelligence , more analytical , and closer cooperation .
after the madrid bombings , the eu focused on combating terrorism at home .
but this does not mean that the eu has become introverted .
instead , the eu believes that international cooperation is the basis for fighting terrorism .
overall , counter-terrorism is in our international priority , and is becoming increasingly integrated into political dialogue between the eu and other countries .
we are putting foreign aid and building programs on a more appropriate place , and we are ready to use our trade and economic forces when necessary , in bilateral agreements , in bilateral agreements .
transatlantic cooperation between the eu and the us has also changed dramatically .
with respect to deeds , and in the us and europe , there has been a rapid and decisive event – for example , joint efforts aimed at eliminating the funding of terrorists - even as we disagree over events in iraq .
still , i am not complacent .
to facilitate the radical complexity of the eu ’ s counter-terrorism policy , we now have an act of action , with the approval of the council of the european council approved by the council of the european council , which clearly defined their responsibilities and the timing .
the program will also help countries understand the eu ’ s objectives , promoting the pace of legislation .
i recently appointed a counter-terrorism coordinator to help me monitor the program ’ s implementation .
in terms of judicial and home affairs , there is a lot of new ways .
europe ’ s arrests have produced specific results , and we are increasingly close to the free movement of `` free movement '' within the eu , through which the judicial decision – such as suspects and extradition , 产 , and freezes - will be recognized .
moreover , the european border agency will begin to work in 2005 .
with the european council ’ s request , i am working with the commission to develop strategies to cut off terrorist financing .
this area is a real test for cooperation , because our success will depend on whether we interact with the relevant sectors and financial , banking , and financial flows .
i am convinced that military action alone can not defeat terrorism .
judicial , police , and intelligence cooperation should be the focus of action .
this is not to say that we can make meaningful contributions not to europe ’ s security and defense policy ( esdp ) , but that esdp is not the centerpiece of our efforts .
beyond security and intelligence efforts , we must work to cut off the `` oxygen '' of terrorists , which means dealing with the factors that provide support and support for terrorist groups .
conflicts in the region lead to anger and exclusion .
the problem with the arab and israeli problems would also lead to the rise of radicalism and extremism .
fuel is too much for terrorist propaganda .
the eu will have a firm fight against terrorism , but it must also be staunchly contained the sources of terrorism .
argentina ’ s sovereign bondage
washington , dc – sovereign debt has lately been front-page news , and this time , the united states supreme court ’ s decision on argentina ’ s debt was a decision .
after that decision , the 事件 event will become more complicated .
sovereign debt has been an important feature of the international financial system for centuries .
the king borrowed to other countries to pay for wars elsewhere .
but when they can not pay , sovereign default occurs .
today , sovereigns are often elected democratically elected governments , but they still borrow .
at the same time , there is no shortage of resources to continue to pay for their repayment obligations .
when private firms ( or regional governments ) are unable to repay , they normally enter the legal bankruptcy process .
without such procedures , market economies can not function .
to some extent , this is because creditors are bound to stop lending and demand repayment when the problem is the problem .
this is because the first creditors would often be able to recoup their total payments , while others have only partially withdrawn – which has created incentives for all creditors to rush off , even if they have not lost their capacity for repayment .
moreover , in many cases , the value of assets that affected the real entity will be higher than it was after the separation of assets .
in these circumstances , the best interest in all creditors is to reduce debt rather than collapse .
bankruptcy law thus prevents creditors from persecuting each other by preventing all of them from inflicting harm .
but on the issue of sovereign debt , there is no binding international law that can approve bankruptcy .
while some conventional practices are emerging as international capital markets grow , they remain temporary .
given the uncertainties involved , and sovereign 借债人 can be repaid by printing money to pay for debt issued by the printing press , creditors would normally demand interest on the bonds that are not issued under the law , often in the united states or in the united kingdom , where they are often the united states or the united kingdom .
when a sovereign decides that its foreign debt is no longer sustainable , governments and their creditors will have to negotiate with any of them .
the paris club , established by creditor countries , has developed procedures for dealing with this debt , with sovereign debt held by other sovereigns .
how private creditors hold sovereign debt , and how to organize these creditors , have led to the challenge .
when debt can not be repaid , there are several possible negotiating outcomes .
while it may sometimes be restored to repayment , it could be extended to longer years , so it would allow debtor countries to regain their repayment capacity .
sometimes debtor countries would agree to exchange the old debt with a lower face value or lower interest rates .
few governments would simply refuse to borrow in any form .
argentina defaulted on debt in 2001 .
after a few years , the country was able to use its heavy value to swap bonds with a very low set of bonds .
after 2005 , argentina began paying for new bonds .
but some creditors do not accept this , and sued argentina in new york ( because these claims were issued according to new york law ) .
the opposition ’ s appeal is that if the new bonds were paid in full ( as they once did ) , the same treatment would mean that opponents should withdraw all of their money ( not only interest , but also principal ) .
the second circuit appeals court in the us court ruled that argentina had to pay the same percentage of repayment obligations on its opponents , 100 % in full , as well .
the us supreme court recently upheld this ruling .
under the court ’ s judgment , argentina paid only its opponents to pay for holders of new bonds , while without us financial institutions as a broker for payment for argentina .
so argentina must either repay its opponents in full or merely announce a new bond default .
regardless of the current predicament , the decision raises many questions for issuers and holders of sovereign bonds .
if holders are now convinced that they are resisting the possibility that they would make themselves full of debt at a later date , it is harder to restructure sovereign debt and restore the debtor economies to normal .
in the aftermath of the argentine crisis , most new debt is issued under collective-action clauses , and all bondholders agree to agree on a debt restructuring , as holders of a particular proportion ( about 70 % ) agree .
as time passes , there will be fewer unpaid bonds without cacs .
but the clause does not solve all problems , because every bond is included in a single bond , if it is to buy a sufficient share of its position .
there is also a risk that the future bond issue will be required to replace the pari passu clause , but it would also provide adequate safeguards for bondholders to keep the market operating as they do now .
before the euro crisis , it was believed that problems associated with sovereign debt would only arise in emerging-market countries or least-developed countries .
the united states supreme court ’ s decision to make a difference has been added to the united states supreme court ’ s decision to raise the risks associated with holding sovereign debt – and the cost of issuing them .
future families
washington , dc – now that many countries are graduating at graduation season , clever and fortunate young people are entitled to 学士 帽 , and listen to their elders ’ advice .
some commencement speakers focus on graduates ’ achievements ; others emphasize the future challenges of career .
but it is often a matter of 庆贺 celebrating the school of achievement – another important aspect of happiness and success .
indeed , the celebration of the celebration was about graduates ’ families – namely , those who support them and support their families , regardless of whether they really have blood .
whatever the family ’ s experience , the result is that their children reached only the educational attainment of many of their people .
beyond noting and thanked their families , graduates must consider what kind of family they want to build .
so they have no choice but to think about gender roles and relationships .
given the very different expectations and experiences of different cultures for men and women , the question is very different .
the problem with young women is that the problem of balancing jobs and family relationships is also what young men need to consider .
traditional male “ family ” roles often lead to jobs that are more important than their family .
indeed , looking back at childhood , many graduates may complain that their father stays too little time at home , and that they could have received more attention .
in addition to the competitive side of development , men must decide how to exploit their own personalities .
they must learn to love and pay for themselves , to play good fathers , sons , husbands , brothers , uncles , and even friends .
to this end , they should ask their father and grandfather what they want to make – and plan accordingly .
instead of waiting for challenges to arise , young people should begin to define their priorities now .
how will they adjust to enable their partner to fulfill his or her career aspirations ?
are they willing to move to their partner ’ s job ?
are they willing to abandon jobs or reduce their workload , so that they are better equipped to care for children or parents ?
by all of this , all men should remember that adopting a new approach does not mean that they forego the role of their families .
after all , providing money to provide money is equally important .
the return was to establish close relationships with the children that have traditionally only women .
women must think carefully about their future .
for many women , the challenge lies in abandoning the assumption that its 工作 balance must shift to the assumption that they will have to sacrifice their own careers .
of course , many women would voluntarily choose to prioritize family as a priority ( as well as many men ) .
the key is choices : how much attention will be devoted to households , and to choose the cause of their careers , and to choose real equality .
achieving an equal partnership between the family and the pillars of the economy requires concessions from both sides .
there are 事业心 women who should seek a partner who is willing to slow down or abandon her work , as well as for men .
but bucking gender roles is both ways .
in fact , if such a scheme is to work , women must adjust her expectations of her spouse .
if she wants to establish a family with a male , she can not let the traditional view of the traditional refrain be unconstrained .
if she does not adapt to 挣得 more than her husband , she is limited .
simply put , the support of young women ’ s fathers and grandfathers for their mothers and grandmother is not the only development that women can and should get from their partners .
the decision should not be a old-fashioned rule , but her own strengths and aspirations .
her partner should have confidence and competence to encourage her to fulfill its potential .
finally , graduation does not mean that family work is complete .
parents and grandparents must continue to play a critical role in restoring expectations – or at least supporting their children and grandchildren .
this includes the fact that accepting a son or sun ’ s decision to decide not to become a major pillar of the family ’ s main economic pillar later , but also to understand the possibility that daughters or 孙女 will have to pursue her careers .
graduation is both an end and an end .
young people should remember their families ’ sacrifices , and think hard about what they are willing to do for their families .
at the moment , they should recognize that putting families first does not mean that jobs are dependent ; on the contrary , life is a factor of integration .
let europe lead ukraine
washington , dc – when russia has achieved its annexation of crimea , the united states must step back , europe must move forward , and the international community must ensure that russia and the ukrainian nationalists do not have a lethal cycle of violence .
at the moment , western leaders are doing their best to maneuver on their own hands , blocking german chancellor angela merkel ’ s early missteps – a move that , she argued , was only an act of distancing themselves from reality .
the escalating crisis in the us at this stage will only be more favorable to russian president vladimir putin , making the west a paper tiger .
throughout the twentieth century , the us always intervened in latin america at times to overthrow and topple the government that it did not have : cuba , nicaragua , dominique 多米尼克 , panama , guatemala , haiti , malta , chile , and grenada .
during the cold war , successive us presidents have tried to secure a direct or indirect government to ensure that friendly government prevailed in the americas ( and elsewhere ) .
recall the west ’ s response to the former soviet and russian invasion of russia : hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and georgia in 2008 .
every time , the us refused to intervene militarily with the world ’ s largest number of nuclear weapons .
looking back to history is not for history , but to understand how russians will understand the consequences of putin ’ s behavior .
there is also a universal political logic , whereby foreign threats or crises reinforce their position at home .
putin ’ s domestic support , backed by crimea , was just as british prime minister margaret thatcher did in 1982 .
even left-wing intellectuals overwhelmingly support putin ’ s efforts to protect ethnic russians and the kremlin and its friendly media portray ukrainian nationalism as “ fascist . ”
against this background , us secretary of state john kerry made clear that nato has not considered any kind of military response to any kind of military response .
he could also make a better effort , leading the chief negotiator and speaker of the 此场 crisis to the european union : eu high representative ashton ashton , merkel , british prime minister david cameron , and polish prime minister donald tusk .
the european union , as a whole , has far more economic relations with russia than the us , and influence is far more influential than the us .
the eu is russia ’ s largest trading partner , and the us is one of the fifth largest , following china and ukraine .
in 2012 , about half of russia ’ s foreign direct investment went to the netherlands , cyprus , and switzerland ( non-eu members , but in the eu ’ s sphere of influence ) , and inflows of foreign direct investment have 75 % from eu countries .
finally , russian oligarchs have more in london and southern france than in new york and miami .
moreover , the eu is less likely to pressure russian nationalism than the “ interference ” of russia ’ s neighbors .
first , ukraine is the eu ’ s neighbors .
but , more important , the eu is not talking about russia in the post-soviet world every day , as the us does in russia .
russian experts in the united states have fallen much more than two decades ago , because most us foreign policymakers are more concerned about china , india , and the middle east .
no country likes to be ignored , let alone the former superpower .
finally , if the us step back , the eu , the united nations , and even china can remind russia of the consequences of international law , the consequences of the annexation of poor territories , and the consequences of a 公投 referendum .
the muslim tatars – about 15 % of crimea ’ s population – strongly opposed joining the russian federation , and could become a permanent opponent , as well as 25 % of the crimean population who has remained silent over the last ten days .
the us and europe decided to take some economic sanctions now , and are likely to tighten and expand sanctions later , not sign a sign of weakness , but with thoughtful strategic conclusions .
even heavier weapons in the us and europe ’ s diplomatic arsenal could be used to block putin ’ s further encroachment on ukraine ; at the same time , markets will impose greater economic costs on all russians .
today , it is equally important to consolidate the moderates in the new ukrainian government , reducing the influence of right-wing nationalists who can flout the rights of russian-speaking ukrainians .
from the french revolution to egypt and syria , extremists have repeatedly victimized moderates , taking the same tactics and politics that they initially rallied to overthrow .
this is not to say that the us , the european union , and other relevant actors should do everything they can to ensure that all ukraine ’ s people , regardless of language , religion , and religion , will enjoy the right and prosperity that he craves .
for the us , as president barack obama put it in national security strategy , defending universal values is america ’ s core interests .
but , on the issue of ukraine , the way to pursue this interest is not to introduce cold war-style rivalry .
the cold war ’ s cold war-style rivalry was constrained only by russia ’ s impact on the crisis ( strategically or economically ) to resolve the crisis .
washington , dc – the initial assertion that the us government ’ s initial agreement on “ iran ’ s nuclear program ” was first emphasized that it is a great deal for the us and the west .
iran has agreed to suspend the uranium enrichment of more than 5 % of the country ’ s concentration of its concentration , and to cut the concentration of uranium by almost 20 % , stop hoarding the concentration of uranium , and abandon the “ next generation of centrifuges , ” which would allow for strict new checks and balances for its nuclear facilities .
in return , iran would receive “ limited , temporary , targeted , and reversible relaxation of its international sanctions . ”
the agreement will be effective only in the next six months , during which the two sides will try to reach the last comprehensive agreement .
as for now , as us president barack obama put it , the burden is still “ on the road to the world to prove its nuclear program for peace . ”
the framing of this question reflects the need to sell even more limited and temporary proposals to a skeptical congress .
israel is deeply unhappy with the entire negotiations , which , over the last three months , has been saying that , in the last three months , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu has voiced a strong backlash .
indeed , israel ’ s stance has fueled obama ’ s republican opponents , accusing him of being weak and naïve in negotiations with iran , which still describes the us as a “ great satan . ”
both republicans and democrats are threatening to pass a new round of tough sanctions against iran in december .
as a result , obama must pursue a tough stance on iran ’ s negotiating forces in negotiations with iran .
this is not surprising .
one can easily estimate that the iranian government is equally tough to its people , and that the concessions that iran ’ s negotiators have won are on the table .
such concessions include suspending oil and gas sanctions against iran , gold , and car exports ( which would add $ 1.5 billion annually to iran ) , and to loosen revenues of $ 42 billion in revenue , and to ease the iranian government ’ s tuition for foreign students overseas .
as obama , iran ’ s president , hassan rouhani , also needs to guide the support of the agreement and the first priority , with the first priority to dampen inflation and bring the economy back .
if domestic tensions ( the main result of iran ’ s struggling middle class ) can be eased , the iranian government will gain credit , and the iranian national guard and other hardliners will be weakened .
the west would best hope that iran ’ s rhetoric will be honored , because the political space for any meaningful diplomatic agreement – both the desire to reach a deal and the room for agreement – is domestic .
consider , in particular , the new government ’ s commitment to power with renewed economic growth .
rouhani will overcome the hardliners who seek to block any final agreement only if the iranian people receive economic relief and attribute it to his administration .
thus , the real test of this interim agreement is whether the domestic space that both sides will ensure continued negotiations .
the stakes are high – not least because of the real geopolitical consequences of the iranian bomb .
as obama put it , “ if iran seizes this opportunity , the iranian people will benefit from a return to the international community , and we can begin to 消弭 our mistrust of our own . ”
iran will gain a decent path to start with the world as a basis for mutual respect . ”
let us imagine that the middle east and central asia will be a temporary one if the us and iran can once again talk about each other .
as we saw briefly after the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , the drug trade from afghanistan fell sharply .
moreover , the possibility of a regional security agreement , including iran , india , pakistan , russia , china , turkey , turkey , turkey , the eu , and the united states , has provided a framework for security and economic growth – from henry kissinger to the late 霍尔 – to provide a framework for peace .
perhaps more important , if the us is able to negotiate with iran , the chances of a peace settlement in syria would be substantially higher – iran ’ s role in syria ’ s president bashar al-assad far more than russia .
after all , iran ’ s lebanese proxy , hezbollah , decisively reversed the situation against the opposition in the last summer of last summer .
iran has long made clear that it wants to regain its historic lows as a regional – indeed , global – power , and that iran ’ s ambitions have intensified since the rise of turkey ’ s geopolitical position .
after all , iran and turkey are the most populous countries in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , with sophisticated elites and glorious histories .
us secretary of state john kerry , the european union ’ s senior representative , and other negotiating parties – all of whom are aspiring diplomats – took a few months to settle the details , put the agreement to the negotiating table , make concessions , control , and coordinate the expectations of various parties ( including the media ) .
the obama administration itself has committed itself to global leadership through civilian , military power .
that is what the iranian nuclear talks mean .
obama versus the islamic state
washington , dc – us president barack obama has already developed a detailed strategy for his administration to fight the “ islamic state ” that controls the country ’ s territory and iraq .
while i have been critical of obama ’ s policy toward syria over the last two and a half years , the new strategic policy is both ripe and coherent – though in some respects the values that he has consistently advocated .
this omission may still defeat his plan .
there are three reasons for obama ’ s approach .
first , it combines force and diplomacy .
second , it provides careful conditions for the type and scope of us military action .
third , it combines the fate of action and the establishment of the middle east ’ s alliances , which show that the us , though willing to assume leadership , can not and will not play a global policeman .
in the middle east ’ s struggle for power , obama has been 尽力而为 .
he knows that us-led military action could significantly weaken the “ islamic state , ” but only a joint military operation can defeat it .
he won political leverage through clear limits , asserting that only the new iraqi government would “ protect its own people and humanitarian missions ” only if the new iraqi government joins the us .
if the government fulfills its commitment to political inclusion , the us will help it get its country back ; otherwise , the us will not .
but it is equally important that these positions affect iran .
obama ’ s speech did not mention iran ; but the skeptics speculated about whether the strategy expands iran ’ s influence on the us , because iranian-backed fighters would be critical to the success of the “ islamic state . ”
but iraq ’ s shia government is iran ’ s key strategic stability in the region ; it will be difficult to survive before the us began airstrikes against the islamic state .
iran needs us air power as much as the us needs iran .
the us emphasis on the creation of a regional alliance with the islamic state is also a flexible foreign policy .
secretary of state john kerry has made it clear that it is not welcome to join iran .
but no alliance in iran has actually become a sunni front , and iran is supposed to engage in negotiations and play a greater role in calming syria ’ s civil war , but that means that iran is willing to sign its agreement to control its nuclear program .
the timing is unprecedented .
the weakest weakness of obama ’ s policies is to give ordinary people a network of human relationships that spread anger , hatred , despair , or hope , trust , and loyalty .
he has argued that the us will use force to defend its “ core interests , ” but the idea of mobilizing his country ’ s “ greater challenges to the international order ” is a sound and effective policy .
but , as a syrians sent me , the understanding of the world ’ s understanding of the death of the united states was the fact that the united states would use force to avenge the death of two american journalists , but not at 200,000 syrians .
unless us military action is to serve the lives of the people of iraq and syria , the us will quickly lose its propaganda campaign against the islamic state .
as many experts warn , when drone strikes kill women or children , the video , the site , and the funerals of the funeral will be made available to the entire muslim world .
even if such videos don ’ t actually increase support for the “ islamic state , ” millions of muslims will then have used the us to apply thousands of military capabilities to the past : to bring oil or to israel to bomb , or simply to fight the muslim people .
this would not only harm the us in syria and iraq , but will also determine the views of other arab countries , which will not be able to cooperate with the us .
most damaging is the purely strategic justification for military action – to defend america ’ s core interests – to the task that it needs in syria .
the only way to force syrian president bashar al-assad to return to the negotiating table is to weaken him and the islamic state simultaneously .
the only legal or moral justification for combating its air force , ammunition , or heavy weaponry is to protect people from international obligations that harm it – just as the us helped to protect the yezidis from the islamic state .
unlike obama ’ s claim , the brutality of the islamic state is not “ unique . ”
assad has killed 200,000 people in his government ’ s 冲突 conflicts , mostly civilians .
and , determined to protect responsibility , and to cooperate with more limited air strikes , as obama did before , it would quickly change the current situation .
iran would understand that america ’ s restrictions on syria are not without maturity ; the sunni government will be shamed at home as well ; and the brutality of the islamic state is a recurrent conflict with a humanitarian story .
the fate of farmers will have a direct and profound impact on the king ’ s fate .
obama ’ s policies oscillate in the geopolitical calculations of national interests and universal values that defend “ our common security and humanity . ”
making empty rhetoric will allow him to win space and win the necessary elements of his geopolitical goals .
the post-national us
in the streets , the street was silent , and tens of thousands of workers are in crisis .
with 16 days later , the us government shutdown of the us government , which has been blocked by congressional republicans ’ efforts to block president barack obama ’ s health-care legislation , has yet to wait .
for starters , when the eurozone crisis erupted today , the united states will have to show tough talk ; after all , the disease was as severe as it was in the past five years .
irresponsible behavior threatens the health of the global economy ?
yes .
political posturing and outlandish claims lend to any path of compromise ?
yes .
scary brinkmanship and 11 hours of decision-making have so far been that all bystanders worry that this time to go on the cliff ?
yes .
in recent years , few countries are exempt from domestic political spectacles that are broadcast around the world .
the massive riots erupted two years ago ; paris was in a process of paralysis and protests in paris ; and greece is becoming a fascist city ; and turkish prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan suppressed the march of the protests against his increasingly authoritarian style .
in non-democratic countries , china exposed bo xilai , a story that is enough to write a spy novel – including 风流韵事 , rampant corruption , murder , high police officers , and the dramatic 寻求 of the us consulate .
from this perspective , the us government shutdown has little to do with it .
yes , this is clearly a symptom of political dysfunction , owing to the politicized demarcation of constituencies and the distortions created by american campaign-finance systems .
nonetheless , it is worth noting that the entire crisis is based on constitutional rules .
indeed , as the debt ceiling increases maturities , the brookings institution ’ s distinguished researcher , aron Aaron , argued that the us constitution requires the government to “ spend the bill on congress to allow him to spend more than congress , and to borrow more than congressional authorization . ”
if congress refuses to raise the debt ceiling , it will not be able to meet all three legal obligations , but without congressional approval , it would be the least bad option to raise the debt ceiling without congressional approval .
this understanding means that the solution to the current impasse will come from the ballot box rather than the streets .
and this collective commitment to 依法治理 politics can be applied precisely to liberal democracy .
but americans are not interested in celebrating .
indeed , a second conclusion from the us government shutdown is that the substance of american triumphalism is a real disappearance .
the exceptions to the slogan have given way to a more sober patriotism , with ordinary citizens believing that the long-term trend is undermining equality of opportunity , particularly the shortcomings of america ’ s health-care , education , and infrastructure systems .
the tea party republican party ’ s anger ( like the anger of “ occupy wall street ” protesters ) reflects a belief that only a dramatic and revolutionary approach can change the system .
but , in response , more pragmatic voters increasingly resent political paralysis and their governance institutions ’ inability to respond to the preferences of a clearly majority population .
during the government shutdown , the republican party ’ s support declined to a quarter , reaching an all-time low , compared to only 5 % for congress .
the final lesson of the shutdown is that all political systems benefit from greater female participation .
many have mentioned six women senators – both republicans and democrats – in reaching the key role that the crisis must play in ending the crisis .
these women have maintained relations with each other within a partisan divide , while their male counterparts have steadily deteriorated , becoming 争相 and 谩骂 .
equally important , these women feel the moral necessity of actual governance and acted accordingly .
in the words of the maine republican senator susan collins , the government shutdown has “ hurt all small businesses ” around the country ’ s 阿卡迪亚 park , the country ’ s 阿卡迪亚 park , “ this is completely wrong . ”
the world should take note .
women are not necessarily more governed than men , but they often have different perspectives and habits , which are important to break the barriers that defend the need to defend male egos .
they are often more focused on the people ’ s actual , rather than sticking to , the great principles , preferring progress rather than 形而上 victory .
from parliaments to peace negotiations , increasing female roles would make the outcome better .
now the us government has reopened .
negotiations on the real budget that all sides can accept are beginning to be .
both are assessing the impact of government shutdown on the republicans ’ mid-term election in 2014 .
but america ’ s social and economic divisions will eventually find political solutions , through elections and millions of americans .
frustrating and embarrassing recent weeks , the situation is likely to be much worse if not in the us .
stopping russia starts in syria
washington , dc – in a sense , the solution to the ukraine crisis is in syria .
us president barack obama should show that he can order a military offensive in some state , rather than just secret drone strikes and covert operations .
the result will change not only damascus , but also moscow ’ s strategic calculations , not to mention beijing and tokyo .
many believe last august that obama had compromised his base on missile attacks against syria , leaving russian president vladimir putin to annex crimea .
but it is more likely that putin , for his domestic reasons , liberated crimea – in order to divert russians ’ attention from the country ’ s economic malaise , to the humiliation of the ukrainian government to topple the ukrainian government .
whatever putin ’ s initial motivation , he is now in the context of a variety of circumstances .
the west ’ s use of force , not just arms to the 军队 ukrainian army , is not in putin ’ s sphere .
therein lies the problem .
in the case of syria , the world ’ s largest , most flexible military power , the united states , has chosen to negotiate its hands over the next three years .
in russia ’ s case , the us has made the mistake of doing nothing , and leaders like putin are in the 气概 spirit of their own and other leaders .
it is time to change putin ’ s calculus , and syria is an ideal place to start .
by 坚壁清野 , hunger , 低温 , and now 弹片 bombs , syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s forces are gaining advantage .
slowly but surely , the government is reclaiming rebel-held territory .
“ realist ” foreign-policy analysts publicly claim that assad is far worse than al qaeda ’ s opposition to support the opposition ; others believe that it is more advantageous for a couple of years to fight the fight against one another .
moreover , the syrian government seems to be gradually giving up its chemical weapons , adhering to last august ’ s agreement .
the problem is that if assad continues to think that he can do whatever it wants to do his people , he would have had the opposition , killing all of them , killing all captured , and punishing the entire community , just as his father hafez al-assad in 1982 .
he has repeatedly shown that he is not so ruthless .
since the beginning of the conflict in syria , assad has been stirring up fear , promoting a sunni backlash against the alawites , druze , christians , and other minorities .
but we must speculate about assad ’ s behavior .
we have already seen more .
the us strikes against syria now will change the situation .
the us can force the assad regime to return to the negotiating table , and to pursue a settlement , at least for assad to know that it is impossible to rebuild its rule at the same time .
as long as russia is in the united nations security council , it will not be able to strike a legal blow to syria , because russia can veto any resolution that authorized military force .
but even russia agreed on february 2139 resolution 2139 , urging the syrian government to increase humanitarian aid for hunger and injuries .
moreover , resolution 2139 calls for “ all parties to stop all attacks on civilians , and to use weapons indiscriminately indiscriminately , including shelling and air strikes , including shelling and aerial bombardment . ”
the us should work together as much as possible , using force to eliminate syria ’ s fixed-wing aircraft as a first step toward enforcing resolution 2139 .
the “ air strikes ” could still continue , but such an air strike would be a game-changer .
after the attack , the us , france should ask the security council to approve the action they have taken , just as nato intervened in kosovo in 1999 .
equally important , america ’ s firing of fire in syria will echo in russia .
the great irony is that putin has managed to do what assad has done in ukraine today : portraying legitimate political opponents as a thug and terrorists , relying on provocation and mendacity to turn non-violent protests into violent attacks .
recall that the syrian opposition took the fire on six months after marching peacefully , and the free syrian army , the first , began to rally .
in ukraine , putin is happy to see a peaceful opposition to the corruption of the corrupt government into civil war .
putin may believe that , as western powers have repeatedly told their own citizens , nato forces will not risk a nuclear war to ukraine .
perhaps not .
but the russian forces destabilizing eastern ukraine have no labeling .
in addressing the ukraine crisis , it is important to put military force on the table , even in syria , as one of the most important ways to impose economic pressure on russia as one of the west ’ s most important responses .
as the russian ruble ’ s depreciation and foreign investment dried up , the russian people will become restive , and that putin has more reason to deflect attention from the patriotic scenes that “ russians ” return to the arms of the “ russians . ”
obama came to the white house in order to end the war rather than start the war .
but if the us meets bullets with words , tyrants will draw their own conclusions .
the same is true of allies , such as japan ’ s confusion about how to respond to the disputed senkaku islands if china is in crisis .
to lead in national and global interests , the us must demonstrate that it is ready to take responsibility for the great powers .
fighting syria may not end the civil war there , but it could prevent a new civil war in ukraine .
xi ’ s recipe
washington , dc – china ’ s government is cracking down on western journalists by cracking down on western journalists and reporting stories about corruption in the new york times and bloomberg journalists , which are threatening to renew visas for them .
times columnist thomas friedman recently wrote an open letter to the chinese government , arguing that , because “ greed is the primary cause of the history of the chinese regime ’ s demise , ” the press is more helpful than harming the chinese government .
anyone who believes that free press and free speech is all too universal would agree with friedman ’ s position .
but chinese politics – including the politics of rights – is always intertwined with economic factors .
last month , xi announced a complete set of reforms on the central committee ’ s third plenum , proposing a “ great revival of the chinese nation . ”
his 60 plans include fiscal policy and financial-sector reforms that implement interest rates on deposits , allowing private investors to participate in state-owned enterprises , active smes , relax labor restrictions , and increase local government revenues .
the policy of this renewed investment is reminiscent of deng xiaoping ’ s initial shift to capitalism in 1979 , when the policy left china ’ s deeply entrenched corporate and government elites .
if xi ’ s administration manages to succeed – a significant uncertainty – its reforms may help china to complete the transition from export-led economic and government investment to a sustainable growth model based on domestic consumption .
the stakes are high .
the country that has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty over the past two decades must now find ways to protect and gradually expand these gains , while creating the same miracle for the hundreds of millions of people who remain impoverished .
china ’ s reform program will have a successful economic and moral impact on the world .
against this background , it is important to know that xi ’ s economic reforms are only one ingredient of a carefully scripted cocktail .
the rest of the formula includes two popular social reforms – ending the one-child policy of many chinese parents , dismantling the “ transfer of labor ” system , and a political crackdown .
strengthening censorship and intimidation of foreign journalists , as well as imprisonment and stricter restrictions on dissidents , are intended to ensure that economic chaos does not lead to the political insurgency .
to implement ambitious reforms , xi has taken several steps to consolidate his personal and bureaucratic power .
he has reduced the politburo ’ s members from nine to seven , thereby reducing the difficulty of achieving consensus under the institutionalized leadership .
he has also expanded the power of the central committee , led by his own leadership , and established a new national security council .
understanding how the national security council will meet xi ’ s statist needs is a case in point .
without national security council and domestic policy committees , the us president has no routine way to control the various bureaucracy .
the white house staff working in the national security council convened the state department , department of defense , the department of finance , the justice department , and other important institutions to comment on specific policies .
but it is president barack obama ’ s staff who directed the outcome toward the next steps .
since the third plenum ended xi ’ s reform agenda , many chinese observers have hailed him as the most transformative leader since deng xiaoping .
time will tell the answer , but the key difference between 2014 and 1979 is that the chinese cocktail is now intertwined with fear .
埃文 snowden once wrote two years ago in the arab uprisings , when a senior official said at a meeting in beijing that “ the country will fall into the abyss ” when the chinese government ’ s global movement was “ shaken ” in the social media .
as snow recently reported in a chinese diplomat explaining the dangers of the government ’ s threats to expel the new york times and the release of bloomberg journalists , it should not allow them to continue doing so . ”
that fear is an important force driving xi ’ s reform agenda .
the communist party must maintain china ’ s economic growth ( even if growth relatively slow ) , while fighting rampant corruption , responding to the needs of people .
china ’ s citizens can not vote , but they are able to express their grievances , making the chinese bureaucracy “ stability . ”
geert 多布森 , the author of the dictator ’ s learning curve , describes the government ’ s substance as an expert , based on effective problem-solving .
“ when the regime ’ s legitimacy is linked to its performance , he suggested , “ any crisis – and the political parties ’ response – can turn into question its right to govern . ”
china ’ s leaders apparently fear that western-style investigative journalism in china could trigger such a crisis .
in any case , they will not risk doing so .
they believe that they can handle the scandal , and the top-down drive for economic , social , and political reform .
they are increasingly reluctant to adhere to western rules .
germany stands up
washington , dc – since the first term , us president barack obama has been repeating the mantra of other countries : “ responsibility versus power . ”
france has repeatedly demonstrated that it understands and bears this responsibility ; it may now be in germany .
a couple of weeks ago , german president gauck gauck looked back at the fifth munich security conference , which has shaped the history of the federal republic in the last half-century , a period that has emerged as a “ good germany , ” which was known to be known .
moreover , germany has benefited more from the current open , value-based international order than most other countries , and thus has greater responsibility for defending and expanding the order .
gauck ’ s speech reflects an important new report , based on political and scientific foundations , and the united states ’ marshall fund , entitled the new great powers , new responsibility ( new power power ) .
the report arises within seven months of internal discussions within germany ’ s foreign policy and security establishment , arguing that germany ’ s current values and interests are committed to “ human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and the international order based on universal norms . ”
as 高克所 points out , germany ’ s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the order of “ preservation and lasting adjustment . ”
in order to achieve this , germany must become a “ great power power , ” a country capable of addressing the problems of conflict and addressing the conflict with all of the international community .
while the traditional dimension of a country ’ s power relative to others – geography , demography , economic power , and military power – remains important , it is often insufficient to wield actual influence in international politics .
a powerful power power builds relationships , investment institutions , and thus allows it to work with other countries and build and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded countries . ”
germany has a special responsibility to help the global new powers finance the system as a powerful power in which to protect and extend the openness of the international system .
therein lies the essence of this .
germany has long sought permanent seats on the un security council , as well as japan , brazil , and india .
but the new great powers , the new responsibility point out a different path , put forward a new security council reform package that would merge the united kingdom and france into permanent european seats , thereby ensuring that the number of non-permanent members in europe is “ small and permanent . ”
in this scenario , germany will play a global role in peace and security through european seats , while as a non-permanent member .
this new commitment to “ strong and united europe ” is the second pillar of the twenty-first century german foreign policy .
the new great powers , new responsibility proposes “ deepening ” the european union through a series of measures , including the direct involvement of national parliaments , and europe ’ s fiscal constraints on the european union ’ s government , in exchange for the democratization of european banking , the eurozone budget , and eurobonds .
in terms of foreign and security policy , the new powers , new responsibility proposes strengthening the role of senior representative representatives in the eu and the role of the european action service .
the current eu high representative catherine ashton continues to demonstrate the value of the eu ’ s foreign policy agency , such as , say , brokering an important peace agreement between serbia and kosovo , which also played a key role in negotiations on iran .
the third surprise comes from the use of force .
it is clear that germans , who must be prepared to use force , will use force at least as a final option , and accuse some of germany ’ s fellow citizens from using their “ past crimes , ” as opposed to the “ 愿望 of the past . ”
more controversially , gauck ’ s request for any military action would require security council authorization , but he also hinted that kosovo could serve as a precedent for military intervention in syria .
as he points out , when the international community faces an obvious situation , it needs to use force to protect people from their own government , but the un security council can not agree on a united front , “ the relationship between legitimacy and legitimacy becomes a hindrance . ”
in the deliberations of the new great powers , the new responsibility , there is disagreement .
some argue that the security council authorization is necessary , and some believe that , without authorization , humanitarian interventions can be “ the exception of a strictly defined exception . ”
us secretary of state john kerry spoke at the munich security conference .
but , given that he did not mention gauck ’ s statement , he missed an opportunity to highlight obama ’ s key foreign-policy principle : as the us no longer acts as a policeman , more attention to diplomacy , other countries must stand up .
more important , kerry and obama can reflect on a key lesson embedded in gauck ’ s speech and the report .
countries that want to retain power in an ever-changing global order must learn to share it , which requires accepting and embracing a new world landscape .
the obama administration should think carefully about reform of the security council .
it must send a real signal that it is willing to replace the order of the world in 1945 to replace the world of 1945 .
this means supporting a larger role for all countries that understand and accept the real responsibility for maintaining global peace and stability .
stopping syria ’ s contagion
washington , dc – syria ’ s civil war has become a very complex issue .
with the parties coming to a second round of peace negotiations in geneva , the government has launched a vicious bomb attack on cities like aleppo ; both militant islamist groups , including the syrian free army , are fighting alongside al qaeda affiliates ; and al qaeda agencies have clashed .
moreover , the war is becoming more influential in others .
the fighting has exacerbated instability in the region ; the us and european citizens are flooding into syria ; and the idea of a post-war middle east border is increasingly being accepted .
indeed , many armed groups backed by outside powers are threatening the survival of the country ’ s multi-ethnic nation-states – iran , saudi arabia , qatar , russia , the us , turkey , france , france , and many private donors .
there are three ways to simplify the situation , allowing participants in geneva ii to agree not only on a third geneva conference .
first , the conference ’ s main contribution to the negotiations between syria and the political transition is to change the incentives of major parties .
in the run-up to geneva ii , all sides tried to shore up their position on the negotiating table by 多杀 the enemy and upholding or regaining their wings .
the task for the future of peace in the future is to stop this trend further , and , regardless of whether president bashar al-assad ’ s presidency is in place , the electoral criteria for elections will be set in .
these criteria must include local parties allowing humanitarian aid to flow to all of the syrian people , ending the massive public-health workforce , starvation , starving civilians , and crimes against humanity , such as the oppressed .
the un must reaffirm its doctrine of “ responsibility to protect , ” which is not an excuse for military intervention , but rather a fundamental principle that the government has emphasized the need for the government to protect its citizens .
second , the international community must lay the groundwork for engagement .
the conflict in syria was also an internal matter , with the un playing only a humanitarian and refugee rescue .
but now the conflict has spread to the entire middle east , causing instability in lebanon and threatening to fracture iraq .
the united nations security council has a responsibility to punish default and remove threats to international peace , which are now clearly met .
so russia ’ s permanent security council has an obligation to act ; it ( and china ) can not use the un to act as an excuse to justify its internal affairs .
at a time when the sochi olympics made russia an important moment of international focus , the us and other members of the security council should set a series of resolutions that will require the kremlin to meet its responsibilities or influence the conflict .
finally , the most important step that us president barack obama can take is to restore credible threats of force .
during the three years of escalating conflict , assad believed that the only diplomatic success was achieved when the us missile strikes .
he suddenly recognized the benefits of destroying the chemical weapons .
but most experts believe that military strikes are impossible .
the american public has adamantly rejected obama ’ s attack on assad ’ s repeated attack on assad ’ s repeated use of chemical weapons , and a recent pew poll showed that the majority of americans believe that “ america should exercise its own affairs in international affairs , and what can do the rest of the world . ”
in particular , obama will have to do more than polls .
the us military has withdrawn from afghanistan and iraq , but the victory that has paid off is waning .
al qaeda is 趁虚而入 and is forming their own government in western iraq and the eastern part of syria , where al-qaeda is far from europe and the united states .
perhaps obama believes that he and his successor can deal with such threats later .
if al qaeda starts to threaten the us in the case of islamic states like iraq and syria , the us could eliminate them by drones , as in afghanistan , pakistan , and yemen .
but if he is willing to consider the use of force against al qaeda without international authorization , why should we now not use drones to support moderate syrian opposition , forcing assad to negotiate seriously ?
the threat of cruise missiles last september was enough to bring al qaeda members out of the dock .
actions aimed at destroying assad ’ s air force and blocking him from dropping bombs to the people might concentrate his attention on diplomatic negotiations .
obama should declare that the us is committed to political solutions to syria , and his government will do whatever it can to find such a solution in the next year and subsequently .
but if a ceasefire is not fulfilled in the next three months , the us should be able to empower the regional organizations and the syrian people to attack the attacks on civilians and the assad regime against civilians .
the obama administration should explain to the american public that this directly matters to america ’ s security interests .
after all , if geneva ii fails , the third geneva conference will not only involve syria .
people may need to consider how to end the wars in the middle east .
the world cup america
washington , dc – last month , something happened – or something was revealed .
millions of dollars watching the world cup soccer tournament in english and spanish are millions more than ever before .
to be sure , the world cup and its usual end , many argue that americans are just four years focusing on a mere four years and focused only on the us .
but this time is different : americans still see the world cup after the us team was eliminated .
that figure exceeds the 电视节目 of american football fans , the regular viewership on monday night , the monday night .
in my organization , the new us , almost all young people have managed to watch the us in the tournament .
my apartment mate said that , in her office , the us department of education was a pretext to watch the american match with germany .
in the afternoon , the tuesday afternoon of the us and belgium , every bar in aspen , colorado , was killed .
of course , aspen is one of america ’ s wealthiest communities , and perhaps not the us overall .
but we can see a large number of people in kansas city in kansas ’ s city during the american and belgian competitions .
there was no such scenario in italy and france in 2006 , when almost all of italy ’ s small town was found in the squares ; and , throughout the us , it was only after the work of the work .
americans ’ growing enthusiasm for football reflects some important ways to “ join ” the world .
first , the us team and the us audience for soccer are driven by immigrants – many of them countries with a sense of belonging to sports .
in washington , for example , almost all taxi drivers are new americans .
i met with ethiopia ’ s drivers , who will lament the ethiopian team ’ s elimination of the nigerian team in 预选赛 , and then to celebrate the united states ’ defeat for ghana , the most likely eight years – and the most likely eight years in the us .
almost every time , my driver will tell me that his children play in the region ’ s youth leagues .
these migrants are not only providing local soccer talent for the us ; they also comprise the expanding core of american soccer audiences .
dan levy , author of the us sports website ’ s 布里克 report , points out that most commentators define “ american soccer ” as the number of americans who watch american players in the us football league .
clearly , this definition is absurd .
america ’ s tennis fans watched tennis games not as if they were , and the us audience ’ s audience will not be in the golf of the tournament because the tournament was held in the 高尔夫球 ’ s birthplace .
more americans watched the english and mexican leagues in the european and mexican leagues , and are more likely than they watched in the nighttime and ice hockey match , which are both more 起劲 and 冰球 than american football and basketball .
for americans , in particular , the world cup is the best 平衡器 .
my mother is the belgians , even though her citizenship is more than 50 years old ; i still have a 舅舅 , aunt , and 表兄弟 life in brussels .
in the us against belgium , emails flew fast and fast , with friendly rivalry .
my mother was divided when it chooses to choose a 主队 , because belgium is “ david 歌 against the powerful . ”
her three american children immediately reply that , in soccer , the us is a david .
what else can the us experience with the world ’ s smaller countries ?
like viewers everywhere , americans are united by their team , regardless of local differences .
in a bar in aspen , only one in the table , only a 老者 and his son-in-law , who welcomed me , have been cheering for our team , and we celebrate our team ’ s opportunity to miss the opportunity for our team to miss the opportunity .
during the periodic rest of us , we talk about each other ’ s political divisions .
the us political polarization is now deeply polarized , so i want not to be the world cup , and that my two friends are not willing to wait for several rounds of 啤酒 beer in the state department for two years .
but , here , we celebrate the political side , but to celebrate the national community .
the us team fought in the field , and politics is far from certain .
but the games are 大杂烩 , each with dedicated fans of each game , and they are cheering for their support , but they are dispersed across arenas .
and , more often than not , they are watching personal achievement – the intensity of the 选手 runners , 动如脱兔 , and courage – , or the behavior of the best norms .
the world cup allows all of the supporters of a country to go together at one point in a single game , with one or two possible effects .
indeed , watching the world cup alone makes sense .
at the end of the game , when it was lost to a powerful belgian , but believed that the us played a great game , my new friend said , “ we need much more . ”
of course , american exceptionalism is still a lot of market .
i suspect that we will continue to call the world the world ’ s first sport , “ soccer , ” and “ soccer ” in the united states .
but now we love the movement , and it is our movement .
the shareholder spring continues
london – it is the annual general meeting season – one of the world ’ s largest companies at this year – to report to shareholders , with a similar basis for similar conversations .
a few months later , a series of companies will have the impact of the previous year ’ s analysis , with the future plan and the decisions of the board .
when the shareholder conference was not so high , the public was largely unknown .
in recent years , the situation has been few .
growing economic and inequality issues are increasingly fueling more engagement , focusing more on the behavior of companies and their managers .
thus , attention has shifted from ceo and managerial teams to a previously unknown corporate board .
in 2012 , shareholders and others began focusing on boards , questioning the decisions and actions of boards and their members , and the shareholder spring was born .
people are tired of the boardroom meeting in 隔音 rooms , seemingly ignoring economic reality and public sentiment .
they want to confront those who are sometimes pressured by executives ’ eye-popping compensation , or to question those who are taking a complex approach to manipulating taxation .
it is hoped that the board ’ s members have actually done their job , or they are only 尸位素餐 , collecting a large fee .
many corporate and corporate boards are hoping that this focus will be as quickly as possible ; but the reality is increasingly sophisticated .
discontent persists and investors , workers , politicians , and the public now do not only want to understand executives ’ pay , but also to understand how the company ’ s top and the lowest earners are .
they want to know the lowest wage and the hour of labor contracts .
they want to know which measures companies take to address climate change , whether they are responsible members of society , and their actions in conflict zones .
skeptics are no longer content to protest outside .
they are becoming increasingly adept at expressing their own views , buying shares , waiting in stocks , and looking back on their heads , making their problems part of a formal record .
they are putting pressure on companies ’ major investors to take responsibility for their actions .
the questions raised and statements made sometimes appear irrelevant .
but there is also a lot of legal , not only legal , nature , but also a reminder that the board must serve full corporate ecological systems , including investors , employees , customers , and communities .
indeed , these open meetings remind board members that they must keep in mind difficult problems , not symbolic approval of managerial advice , or to create a 融洽 atmosphere .
the stakes were fairly staid .
the company 高管会 and board members step up with board members and board members to report the report , inviting results , accepting results , and then enter the next step .
tea , coffee , and biscuits , but no fancy thing .
but in recent years , there has been a 嘉年华 gathering in the company , where the company has invited a big 艺人 to turn the stakes into feel-good mobilization .
last year , wal-mart ’ s annual meeting featured harry 康 , a small , 罗宾 , 和 , and 法瑞尔 williams .
in 2013 , · john performed .
other companies , by contrast , are moving toward another extreme , using virtual forms of shareholder meetings .
the board has responded to the cameras in front of the camera , and answered the issue early in advance , thereby avoiding the protesters .
this year , hewlett-packard also adopted this approach , with the same approach as well as Martha stewart living living Living .
virtual gold is right : in a business of corporate and investor globalization , investors would be able to participate in the general affair .
but a 直播 audience is an ideal combination .
although companies may think that a virtual virtual meeting can go on the road – but investors do not need robin thicke .
the real data , serious discussion , and a biscuit .
boards and managers must take these meetings seriously .
part of their work is at stake .
it is difficult to invite circuses or hiding behind cameras .
the board ’ s seat is an important part of the board ’ s seat , and board members must defend themselves without 音乐 .
india ’ s obama moment
new delhi – barack obama ’ s stunning victory in the united states triggered many international repercussions , one that is that the world is looking around whether this breakthrough could happen elsewhere .
can a person who belonged to color in the white world win power outside of the us ?
is it possible that someone who is surrounded by a minority of ethnic groups surrounded by a majority of ethnic groups could become his or her country ’ s leader ?
while many analysts in europe , especially in europe , have concluded that such events can not happen in the foreseeable future , india is an exception .
ethnic minorities have been 权威 in various senior positions in india , if not power .
in fact , india ’ s last 2004 general election was a woman in italy ’ s 后裔 roman catholic party ( sonia gandhi ) , who paved the way for a muslim ( 辛格 president ) to a muslim prime minister ( 总统 ) .
that is not just likely here , but it has already happened .
but this complacency is premature .
in india , the best analogy with black americans is the dalits – the former “ untouchables , ” who have suffered humiliating discrimination and oppression for millennia .
like black americans , dalits account for about 15 % of the population , and their share in low positions , lower-income jobs , and the share of their share in the population are unequal in the population ; their level of education is less than a day when they are born .
only when a dalit can rule india can the country really be able to achieve its “ obama moment . ”
however , india ’ s president is largely a symbolic position : real power is in the hands of prime minister , and there has never been a dalit ’ s job .
since independence in 1947 , most indian prime ministers have been 婆罗门 , the highest hindu caste .
yet , in the upcoming national elections before may 2009 , a dalit might be able to compete with prime minister 她 mayawati , the chief minister of 女性 , india ’ s largest state , uttar pradesh .
since 1991 , no indian ruling party has enjoyed a parliamentary majority in the parliament , and thus must form multi-party coalition governments .
currently , the congress-led government , led by the congress-led government , is composed of 20 parties , led by the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) , led by the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
no one doubts that the first challenge will be a coalition government after next year ’ s election results .
both the congress and the bharatiya janata party will find ways to forge a coalition with a few dozen possible seats in parliament .
this time , however , they are likely to face a third option : mayawati , his BSP , may have at least 50 seats .
she had publicly expressed his disdain for two large national parties ; she would prefer a coalition government rather than joining a grand party .
if the number of votes is allocated properly , we can expect a combination of regional and left-wing parties , as prime minister in india .
this is a remarkable development : for three years , a dalit woman led india as an imagined concept .
but india ’ s democracy has opened new pathways to empowering the underclass .
the poor and the oppressed are not so likely , but they do have a number of dollars , and the vote is precisely the number .
the dalits and india ’ s indigenous peoples ( with the constitution ’ s “ untouchables and tribes ” ) entitled 85 seats in india ’ s 543 parliament is a “ reserved ” seat for their communities .
mayawati ’ s shrewd coalition partner , including some members of the castes , has put her in uttar pradesh ’ s right to power and gave her a chance to win other seats .
in a parliamentary system of dependency , this may be the full condition she needs to become prime minister .
as a daughter of a government reshuffle , mayawati used the law and did his teachers , who later came to the 创始人 ’ s founder , the late Kanshi , and had found her political leadership .
her rise has been focused on symbolism – the statue of a numerous dalit leaders in uttar pradesh , where she was a statue of her own , especially her own statues , and her penchant for lavish celebrations .
mayawati ’ s “ dress ” weakness has become apparent in her extravagant 生日派对 生日派对 , and her clothing is filled with diamonds , which she says ( like 艾薇塔 perón ) , which gave her a charm and dignity to her clan .
she was 引以自豪 at last year ’ s $ 6 million income tax – the highest in india ’ s politicians – despite controversy over her source of income .
she has been accused of corruption several times , but not convicted of being convicted of being convicted of building a large shopping mall near the taj mahal .
critics argue that mayawati ’ s promotion of dalit welfare seems to be in her own .
but it is not to deny that the largest state in parliament accounts for some 80 members of the parliament , giving her an important platform to compete for india ’ s most vital position .
with her diamonds and her statues , and her reputation as a subordinate to her subordinates , she certainly is not obama ’ s surprise .
but , if she succeeds , she will end the long history of discrimination .
a no-fly zone for syria
brussels – in an interpretation of international relations , the enemy ’ s enemy is my friend ’ s enemy .
sometimes it is right , often wrong .
thirty years ago , afghanistan ’ s jihadist friends were wrong with friends of the west when they fought with soviet invaders .
the deepening of the syrian crisis , together with the crime of chemical weapons , created a similar dynamic and dilemma .
but the west does not need to offend the same false and equally mistaken choices .
let us start with the first principles .
the recent chemical-weapons attack in syria must be a game changer .
although these weapons of mass destruction are technically not illegal , most countries joined the 1993 chemical weapons convention , which syria refused to sign .
so , “ what will happen next ? ” can not be “ won ’ t happen . ”
the principle of international law – particularly the emerging “ responsibility to protect ” and the use of chemical weapons globally – means that some form of military intervention must be carried out in order to deter other countries that might use weapons of mass destruction , especially for civilians , to use weapons of mass destruction .
but what is the right move , and does it really work ?
what measures are more favorable to strengthening western security , and what can be done to undermine the west ’ s security ?
i believe that the most fair and simple response is a no-fly zone in syria .
the proposal is particularly appropriate in the absence of a solution to the united nations charter ( “ action to threaten peace threats ” ) , because russia and china ( almost certainly ) will vote on the security council .
of course , since the appalling chemical-weapons attack on damascus , which erupted in damascus , and in the aftermath of the rebel control , it has been tense .
but , given the brutality of president bashar al-assad ’ s regime , no one doubts that it will be able to hide its crime .
blocking the un ’ s chemical-weapons experts from entering verification is enough for assad ’ s government to conceal the evidence of the crime of the day , allowing the evidence to degrade the evidence or destroy the evidence .
the united states , france , and the united kingdom firmly believe that the intelligence and 目击 evidence is the perpetrator of the assad government .
another important point is concern about the elements of the syrian opposition .
some elements of al qaeda , led by al qaeda , have been led by al-qaeda , such as al nusra , whose proxy is as brutal as the government and its allies , iran ’ s proxy , and iran ’ s revolutionary guard .
but the west ’ s intelligence agencies believe that there is no evidence that these rebel groups have launched chemical weapons .
in such an environment , a no-fly zone would not only enable syrian warplanes and missiles to go away from the sky , thereby reducing the scale of the slaughter ; it would also be like assad and his supporters that he is weak .
generals ordered to use chemical weapons would have to reckon with the risks that the assad regime has been brought to the court , and that they were brought to court in war crimes .
of course , the benefits are not limited to that , if russia and china favor the security council to implement it – to protect peace and prevent war crimes .
in the case of assad ’ s use of chemical weapons , he will continue to support russia ’ s position in the arab world as a protector .
the moral and political position that russian president vladimir putin has enjoyed around the world is evaporating , and he will soon find it at the g20 summit in st. petersburg .
but the world can not hold the breath of breath waiting for putin and china , which is why a no-fly zone should serve as a military option .
since the 1991 gulf war , a no-fly zone , first proposed by british prime minister john major , was not toppled by saddam hussein , but it prevented him from ending the kurds and the southern shia in the north .
likewise , a no-fly zone in syria would immediately restrict the syrian government ’ s ability to deliver weapons of mass destruction .
some military experts might say that the syrian air defense system is mature , and that it is too dangerous to enforce a no-fly zone .
but israel has succeeded twice in airstrikes in syria , in 2007 , when it destroyed the north korean nuclear reactor ’ s operating reactor ; another , more nearly , attacked a hezbollah convoy .
russia , which understands this weakness well , offers a more advanced s-300 missiles ; but there is no evidence that these missiles have reached syria , let alone complete .
any malicious wishful thinking about assad ’ s regime would disappear as long as you look at the 天际 .
the old problem on china ’ s new frontier
warsaw – if the september 1991 coup against mikhail gorbachev succeeded , the riots in xinjiang recently occurred in russia .
if so , we are not hearing the crackdown in the capital of xinjiang ’ s capital , but hundreds of blood streets in kazakhstan , while columnists can be compared to the british independence movement in lviv .
like china ’ s current situation , russia may be subject to some of the 若有若无 condemnation of the outside world , and has been exposed to some of the kazakh militants , or the suspicion of secession .
and experts may remind us that kazakhstan has never truly become a country , and ukrainians ’ demands for independence are historically untenable .
one can imagine that scenario , as long as tibet and kazakhstan , together with each other , can imagine that scenario .
but , at the end of the tunnel , the coup in 1991 ended in defeat , and the decay of the decadent soviet regime could no longer suppress russia ’ s thriving pro-democracy movement – a task that putin did when he did .
at the same time , the chinese communist party ’ s leadership has chosen another path , by 1989 the tiananmen square massacre , which they put in place a different path from russia .
for china , as for a continent , the policies that it pursued bring pinochet ’ s economic miracle , but they also deprived everyone of the freedom , even with the majority of the population .
this means that , after kazakhstan and ukraine have gained independence , xinjiang and tibet remain mired in riots and bloody repression .
and even if today ’ s russia is in some form authoritarian , it is unlikely that a chinese-style dictatorship will be possible , because russia ’ s per capita gdp reached $ 3.6 million last year , three times higher than china ’ s .
and most chinese seem to be supporting government policies , and the government ’ s brutal crackdown on ethnic minorities and resistance to democratic freedoms has been recognized .
indeed , the latter seems to be the price paid for the former .
this is not a novel phenomenon .
in the publication of the political publication of 亚历山大 , the 流亡 russian democratic thinker , alexander 赫尔岑 , said in the publication of the violent crackdown on the streets of the streets of the city of warsaw , and the suppression of the streets of st. petersburg would be far from certain .
and that commentary led to a sharp decline in the number of russian readers , who , eventually , had closed down .
and when it comes to writing these words , moscow is not only busy repressing the poles and ensuring that it will continue to rule the country for a half-century or so , with china joining the region ( so-called turkish stein ) .
the eastern part of the region became china ’ s 统治区 , and was renamed “ xinjiang , ” meaning “ new frontier . ”
but whenever china ’ s rule is weakened , such as in the 1930 ’ s and 1940 ’ s , the short-lived east turkestan republic would have been established with russian support , with a new agreement that followed russia ’ s new agreement .
the leaders of the second turkish stein were said to have been executed by stalin ’ s orders , when they travel to beijing , and eventually a plane crashed in soviet airspace .
since then , east turkestan east turkestan has been in name , as a member of the 联合国 countries and national organizations ( UNPO , an organization founded in 1991 to rival the un ) .
for xinjiang , the recent riots are inherently social rather than national , aimed at opposing cultural oppression ( which has already accounted for half of the region ’ s population ) rather than expressing appeals to independence .
but the bloodbath is also likely to change , as violence inevitably breeds extremism .
in the short run , china ’ s rule over xinjiang and tibet seems secure : the international community will not challenge a permanent security council .
only china ’ s citizens will be able to challenge , but the “ basket of transactions ” theory seems to have prevented this from happening : as in tibet , uighur action is not a group of solidarity policies , but the backlash against vengeance and revenge – the price of the chinese government ’ s misdeeds .
in the long run , however , china ’ s rulers have a good reason to worry : xinjiang will become the next tibet .
but , in fact , while the 联合国 countries of the united nations and the nation-state – including the so-called assyrian states in the middle east or canada ’ s 水牛 河丘国 – remain the drama of “ marx ’ s great brother , ” the “ 马克思 ” of the united states , six former member states are now in the position of the united nations , which is likely to become a true state .
what is certain is that not only obscure academics and news outlets , but even officials in beijing , are now busy studying the history of the xinjiang uprising and the ottoman guerrillas .
欧佩克 opec ?
dubai – in september 1960 , representatives from iran , iraq , kuwait , saudi arabia , and venezuela gathered in baghdad to form the organization of petroleum exporting countries .
as the world ’ s dependence on oil grows , so did opec ’ s power .
today , many developing countries , including most middle eastern countries , have become the world ’ s leading labor exporters , and should consider creating a similar cartel of migrant workers like opec ?
opec successfully protected the common interests that individual member states can not protect individually .
when markets have structural distortions , the political tools and collective action that opec offers are more effective than public policy .
today ’ s labor-exporting countries were not very different from opec ’ s founding members in 1960 .
they are also weak performers .
rich importers of labor and poor labor exporters have mutually dependent relationships ; but labor importers can unilaterally tighten or loosen immigration or labor-market rules , and labor exporters always face uncertainty .
this imbalance could cost labor exporters huge costs .
remittances from diaspora remittances are important lifeblood for many developing countries – more important than any other financial crisis , including foreign direct investment and aid – often to balance a country ’ s books .
indeed , according to the world bank , remittances accounted for 20-30 % of the philippines and indonesia ’ s gdp in 2013 , and 42 % in tajikistan , 32 % in kyrgyzstan , 48 % in kyrgyzstan , and 6.6 % in yemen , yemen , and morocco .
for many developing countries , labor is a strategic component of production , just as commodities are in resource-rich economies .
when we talk about migrant labor , we think of low-skill jobs in agriculture , construction , services , and domestic affairs .
but countries such as jordan and lebanon are education workers , enabling them not only to pursue domestic chores , but also to become skilled expatriates .
today , labor-exporting countries need to protect their investments in human capital , which are the most effective way to do so .
if these countries want to join china , mexico , india , and other major labor exporters , they must make collective bargaining through wages , visa , and other conditions – some of which will benefit non-member countries as a result of changing global norms .
labor importers need competition to enter the common market , and countries that gain access to the right to access to power will gain a huge comparative advantage .
the cartel would prevent labor-exporting countries from sacrificing their own interests , which is often the case in bilateral arrangements .
for example , if a separate agreement with the gulf cooperation council is to be concluded , southeast asia ’ s southeast asian countries would compromise one another , and the ultimate result is a much worse deal .
with a cartel , governments would turn to a minimum wage rate for different professions and transactions , as well as for different skill levels .
as exporters train migrant workers , demand for these labor will increase , boosting competition on the demand side rather than supply chains , thereby creating a virtuous cycle of higher wages and more skills training .
and , because all of this will occur in global markets , the price of some skills will become more transparent in training agencies , students , employees , and employers .
in this new system , importing countries will collect taxes – based on the new minimum wage – and remittances will continue to be untaxed .
from this perspective , the cartel would have a double international trade union , providing bargaining power for workers in countries where unions are weaker or blocked .
a labor-exporting cartel would have far-reaching implications for the existing system .
cartel members will have the ability to reward and penalize third-party parties .
moreover , more important , the workers themselves will be able to recapture their dignity in the current system , and that their rights are long denied .
indeed , the world ’ s xenophobia will wane , as it is expected to be a privilege with foreign workers .
according to the new negotiation arrangement , labor-exporting countries or will create incentives to curb free riders and illegal immigrants , and labor importers or incentives to legalize and maintain illegal migration .
one possible objection to this proposal is that low-skilled labor costs will increase , which will stimulate automation .
but the jobs that have been driven out of the production sector , driven by automation , will shift to the leisure sector , as demand for household , 侍应 , gardener , and the 园丁 increases .
the cartel will make changes in these markets more clear , so labor exporters will be able to respond and adjust workers accordingly , increasing the ability of labor importers to hire workers more well suited to available jobs .
all told , the labor-exporting cartel will impose order on industries that have long been locked in the dispute , undermining the reputation of many importers of labor importers .
it will change the dynamics of the labor supply and supply of labor , enabling workers ( who will gain new protections ) and importers ( which will be able to acquire a 拉动力 labor force to adapt to rapid changes in economic conditions often due to technology ) .
an open letter to heaven
dear mr. olmert :
i wrote to you that you want you to take time from the 百忙中 to listen to a palestinian leader .
while you have a blunt position for prime minister ariel sharon ’ s stroke , i believe you have an opportunity to become part of a historic settlement .
i know that you will stick to sharon ’ s political legacy , but you have an important advantage that sharon does not have with the palestinians .
the first advantage is that you are not burdened with sharon ’ s negative image among palestinians and arabs .
a decade after you became mayor of jerusalem , you know the plight of the palestinians .
i believe that the chances of political breakthrough in our region have never been better .
on israel ’ s side , you have demonstrated your faith in the political process by unilaterally deciding your own ideology , and that he would leave the jewish settlements .
the two sides also break with traditional israeli thinking by breaking out with your likud likud , thereby weakening the ideological manipulation of the likud party ’ s far-right central committee for israeli politics .
the jewish nature of the jewish people who have been able to leave israel , and to end the permanent occupation of another nation , is essential to the jews ’ minds .
in another small part , the palestinian side has changed dramatically .
i believe that the main part of our conflict is the occupation , not response to the occupation . the palestinian military group decided to declare a unilateral reduction of a ceasefire significantly .
this suggests that the palestinians also recognize the limits of their military operations , which , by participating in the upcoming legislative election , suggest that the conflict should be resolved by political means rather than military means .
i understand that you are an israeli patriot , i believe that there is a lot to be done in reducing tensions between our two peoples , and ultimately a genuine settlement and peace .
as a start , the focus should be on face-to-face negotiations .
sharon and you might feel that unilateral action will be needed in the gaza strip , but , if both sides act , their withdrawal from gaza would be much greater .
direct negotiations should focus on two parallel tracks .
the talks should seek to halt violence immediately and to focus on a permanent resolution of our conflicts .
contrary to the territorial withdrawal of the occupied territories , cessation of violence can be achieved only bilaterally .
both sides should commit to ending the assassination , bombing , bombings , and any other form of attacks on the other .
to be effective , such a cease-fire must include a monitoring mechanism .
it should be called for a neutral foreign observers to deploy neutral foreign observers , and no provisions for either side ’ s violations are to be confirmed .
historically , a ceasefire can be maintained only if both sides believe that negotiations are serious and serious .
at the same time , the atmosphere among palestinians and their attitudes toward israel must be improved , so that we can have a political environment that underpins negotiations .
improving daily life , especially by increasing palestinians ’ participation in gaza and the west bank , will help to create a positive atmosphere .
i truly wish you successfully fulfill your responsibility for your 代总理 and kadima ’ s acting head .
your efforts to advance the israel-palestine conflict improve the political atmosphere across the middle east .
but , regardless of what you won in the coming months to win the upcoming parliamentary election , please remember that the support that kadima received from the israeli public derives from the fact that it has taken a moderate centrist stance .
so please don ’ t pander to israeli extremists and hawks .
the support that you and your colleagues received from israelis and arabs will depend on the determination that you show in the peace process .
this process , as in the past , must finally be achieved with an independent and democratic palestine , and a safe israel .
another asian wake-up call
new haven – the global economic recovery is at risk again , in three years .
in 2008 , the culprit was the subprime crisis in the united states .
this time , it is europe ’ s sovereign-debt crisis .
the alarm bells in asia should be heard clearly – export-oriented region can not be indifferent to repeated shocks to the two largest sources of external demand .
in fact , both shocks have long-lasting repercussions .
in the us , consumers ( which account for 71 % of us gdp ) are struggling with a japanese-like balance-sheet recession .
in the 15 quarters since the beginning of 2008 , real consumer spending has grown at an average annual rate of just 0.4 % .
as the world ’ s largest consumer , the us has never experienced such a chronic weakness .
unless us households make significant progress in cutting the burden of debt , restoring personal savings , and , at the current pace , it will be difficult to overcome the us economy ’ s balance-sheet constraints , the us economy will continue to suffer from a slow growth spurt .
the situation is similar in europe .
even under current very optimistic assumptions – the eurozone will remain – the european economic outlook is bleak .
the crisis-torn peripheral economies – greece , ireland , portugal , italy , and possibly spain – have fallen into recession .
and , as the leading indicators suggest , germany and france , which have been a significant drop in the data on german orders , were also threatened by economic growth in germany and france , with initial signs of weakness .
moreover , fiscal austerity may affect aggregate demand in the years ahead , with capital shortages likely to tighten credit – a serious problem for europe ’ s 银行 system of credit intermediation .
the european commission recently revised its 2012 gdp growth forecast to 0.5 % , teetering on the brink of full-blown recession .
the official forecasts will most likely reduce further in the future .
it is difficult to see how asia can become an oasis of prosperity in the global economic climate .
but denial is deep , and momentum appears strong .
after all , asia has done well in recent years , and too many people believe that , whatever the rest of the world , the region can stand up .
asia ’ s vulnerability to external shocks has intensified .
prior to the great recession of 2008-2009 , exports accounted for a whopping 44 % of asia ’ s total gdp as a share of gdp , fully ten percentage points below the asian crisis of 1997-1998 .
so , while asia ’ s initial decade after the crisis was focused on repairing financial vulnerability to its financial vulnerability to it – a way to accumulate massive foreign-exchange reserves – it has failed to rebalance the economy ’ s macroeconomic structure , and to reduce excessive exposure to short-term capital inflows .
indeed , asia ’ s economic growth has become more dependent on exports and external demand .
as a result , when the shock hit in 2008-2009 , all of the region ’ s economies either experienced a major slowdown or fell into a severe recession .
this is likely to happen again in the months ahead .
emerging asia ’ s share of gdp has declined sharply from 2008 to 2009 , but now it is back to 44 % , meaning that the region ’ s exposure to external demand shocks is as large today as it was in the run-up to the sub-prime crisis .
china – the long-term engine of growth in asia – is typical of asia ’ s potential vulnerability to shocks to developed-country shocks .
indeed , europe and the us collectively account for 38 % of china ’ s total exports in 2010 , the two largest foreign markets .
the latest data inevitably show that asia is beginning to feel the brunt of the recent global shock .
the same is true of china three years ago , with annual export growth falling from 31 % in october 2010 to 16 % in october 2011 , and will likely fall further in the coming months .
in hong kong , exports actually contracted by 3 % in september , and 23 months on year .
south korea and taiwan have also shown a similar slowdown in exports .
even an economy that has long been considered asia ’ s most resilient economy – india , export growth from 44 % in august 2011 to 11 % in october 2011 .
like three years ago , many hoped that asia is a “ decoupling ” from the global shock .
but , with gdp growth now slowing in asia , it seems wishful thinking .
the good news is that a strong investment-led drive partly offset declining export growth and left asia from a hard landing to a soft landing .
but , if the eurozone breaks down , europe ’ s goodwill will be dashed , and asia ’ s goodwill will collapse .
this is asia ’ s second wake-up call in three years , and this time asia needs to be taken seriously .
the us , together with europe , has faced a long way of recovery , with asia ’ s emerging economies unable to establish robust growth based on external demand , based on advanced-country external demand .
if they don ’ t want to allow growth to slow , allowing labor to continue to be absorbed , the risk that social instability will become increasingly destabilizing , and that they will have to move decisively to the region ’ s 3.5 billion consumers .
the most urgent need for consumer-led asia is the need for a consumer-led asia .
another balkan high noon
with the world focused on iraq , north korea , and the prospect of a confrontation with iran over nuclear weapons , kosovo has gone out of its sights .
the situation is coming to an end , and decisions about the province ’ s fate are looming .
the us and its european friends have repeatedly demonstrated their intention to make decisions about whether to separate kosovo from serbia before the end of the year .
this decision is crucial to the future of this unstable region , and will test western determination and unity .
this year , the united nations brokered by the united nations brokered a consensual settlement of the “ final status ” problem between serbia and kosovo .
negotiations continue , but , as un negotiators and former finnish president martti ahtisaari diplomatically told the security council , negotiations actually end .
indeed , serbian nationalism , prime minister vojislav kostunica , has struggled to weaken kosovo ’ s interim government .
he is rushing to hold a referendum this month on a new constitution without serious parliamentary debate and a general public education .
the main purpose of his new constitution is its preamble , which declared kosovo an inalienable part of serbia .
kosovo ’ s ethnic albanians have declared that they will not accept any connection with serbia , however fragile the link .
throughout the 1990 ’ s , they were effectively divorced from the serbs of kosovo by creating parallel institutions .
in 1999 , when they forced large-scale relocation , nato intervened , which ended serbia ’ s rule and established a 准 国家 country .
at some point in the next two months , the balkans group , the united states , the united kingdom , germany , italy , and russia will consider the question of kosovo ’ s final status as a question of the security council , and that it will have to make a proposal to the security council .
in an open forum , all contact groups are trying to make the final status issue unresolved , but in private , the united states and some of its allies told them that they will be scheduled for independence this year .
some members of the security council , especially russia and china , have opposed imposing a solution , or , in fact , on suspicion .
whether the security council approve independence will depend largely on avoiding russian votes , which requires a substantial diplomatic effort .
the nature of the independence granted is also important .
an independent kosovo must be secure , and its minorities must be protected .
north kosovo is now largely under belgrade ’ s control , so , beyond nominal , it can not divide .
to reduce the blow to serbia , the security council must avoid giving kosovo independence , so that new states can not function .
if the security council fails to make decisions on its final status , it will have a serious situation .
if this happens , the serbs of northern kosovo could declare their independence .
at the very least , serbia would strongly oppose recognition .
indeed , serbia ’ s government has tried to persuade the west to postpone its decision by 2007 .
it claims that , given kosovo ’ s independence , radical nationalism will take power in the next general election ; and it believes that this year will allow the contact group to postpone a proposal to the security council .
moreover , the government encouraged the leaders of bosnia ’ s serb democratic party to threaten their own referendum on a 全民公决 bosnia .
and they continue to pursue ahtisaari ’ s job to delay the vienna talks , but did not .
the timing of the constitutional referendum appears to be part of a delaying strategy .
some hope that postponing decisions will inspire violence in kosovo and further encourage the west to reconsider its independence .
this tactic may be working .
many eu countries worry about the implications of taking a country ’ s territory , and kosovo ’ s independence to serbian democracy .
given serbia ’ s political instability , they question the damage caused by short-term postponement , though most of them are self-inflicted .
but delay only offers more room for kostunica to find ways to make the security council decisions more difficult .
the west must ignore belgrade ’ s warning .
serbian politics will be messy and unstable in the foreseeable future , and serbia ’ s politicians will attempt to act as an excuse to avoid losing kosovo .
but , at the end of kosovo ’ s final status , the situation will be even worse in the balkans , which will prevent serbia from close to the west and finally gaining the eu ’ s membership , which would jeopardize kosovo ’ s minority minority and undermine fragile states like bosnia and macedonia .
beyond independence , there is no realistic solution to kosovo .
if serbia wants to join the west , it should not be trapped in its nationalist past .
another “ brics ” ?
new york – the united states is more than a year old .
the conventional wisdom is hard to deal with a well-designed stress test , which , over the last 24 months , has little to do with the global economic experience .
now that the new dawn is emerging , some new theories are accompanied by the emergence of new theories , which include arcane asset-price theories , as well as a relaxation of deregulation .
in the current bubble , one theory of relatively unaffected is that the concept of the so-called “ bric ” – brazil , russia , india , and china – is growing in the global economy .
the concept of the brics is that goldman sachs proposed in 2003 , which seems bad , at least 75 % of the world ’ s economic concepts are accurate .
the global economy ’ s economic crisis in 2008 brought the four 一个打 back to power .
if we look closer to the bric economies ’ economic data , it will find truth , as the old 芝麻街 game put it : “ they are different . ”
the weakening of russia ’ s economy and the high leverage of its banks and companies has been masked by the price of oil and gas prices in recent years , but in the global economy ’ s great turmoil .
with broken heavy industrial infrastructure , together with a 失灵 politics , russia ’ s population is in a downward spiral .
even in the last six months , commodity prices have picked up , and russian energy production has been falling in recent years , owing partly to fear of foreign involvement .
with greater centralization of power , russia ’ s sovereign wealth funds are being depleted , and russia ’ s foreign-exchange reserves will eventually dry up .
in the case of russia ’ s economic 旧病复发 , academic wonks , studies of foreign policy , and an educated investor led to a debate about whether to increase new countries ’ access to emerging markets .
as a result , a variety of different new chairs , from the bric ( the bric countries plus eastern europe and turkey ) , have been 导 ( together with south korea ) , and even a wider range of people – even mexico .
the main concern is that russia still possesses the world ’ s largest nuclear arsenal ( with arms in arms ) , while holding a permanent seat in the un security council ( which means possessing veto power ) .
while the threat of evil small brother north korean north korea is collapsing at any moment , south korea ’ s solid economic power is ready to absorb refugees from neighboring countries , which have a similar situation : a vibrant banking sector , strong domestic markets , and growing influence in the middle east and energy .
perhaps the most attractive country is indonesia , which , as the world ’ s largest muslim country , has grown rapidly and relatively stable domestic politics .
in the context of the global recession , indonesia ’ s economy has grown in asia , and , for the us , indonesia is more attractive than russia , and russia is joining the united states .
indonesia is not just economically , but even a national one .
despite the complexity of the national composition , the island is rapidly transforming itself from a military dictatorship to the transition from a military dictatorship in 1997 , after the tsunami of the asian financial crisis in 1997 , the tsunami in 2004 , and the rise of extreme muslim politics and domestic political instability .
while indonesia ’ s per capita gdp is low , the country ’ s economic potential is large , and indonesia ’ s 新星 is rising .
compared to other asian countries ( not to mention russia ) , indonesia ’ s dependence on exports has attracted considerable foreign investment .
jakarta ’ s government , in sharp opposition to corruption , is now more critical of institutional building .
indonesia ’ s demographic structure also has an advantage , with 2.3 million people , the world ’ s fourth largest population – the equivalent of germany ’ s and russia ’ s combined population combined .
but the idea is difficult to amend once it is forged , and russia has become an unsustainable part of the brics .
the current concept has become de facto reality , in which the four countries ’ leaders held the first bric meeting in june .
a few months ago , the four countries issued joint declarations before g-20 summits vowed to change the rules of the global economy .
for the private sector , the bric index has prevailed , though goldman sachs has introduced a new concept – including the “ next eleven , ” which includes bangladesh , egypt , indonesia , iran , mexico , the philippines , south korea , turkey , and 11 countries , such as vietnam – that are as a barometer of economic change .
and , in addition to previous bric countries , there may be a more persuasive emerging country in emerging countries .
russia ’ s disdain for itself was also made clear by us officials .
at the same time , russia , while actively planning the brics ’ 叶卡捷琳堡 meeting , will not be able to pay for it .
another buddha destroyed
new york – in 2001 , the taliban ’ s military forces destroyed the world in an atmosphere of horror in a monumental 大佛 of afghanistan ’ s 巴米 young .
political and cultural leaders from around the world condemned the attacks .
many are actively calling for help .
everyone asks : should the world be prepared to deal with it ?
alas , it is not .
in northwest pakistan ’ s swat valley , armed militant militants attacked the oldest and most important sculptures in buddhist art .
in the wake of the statue of the statue of christianity , the statue of the statue of christianity , and the statue of 130 feet , is second only to the 巴米 buddha , after the 巴米 buddha .
moreover , it is a second attack in a month .
Murtaza Razvi , pakistan ’ s dawn newspaper , points out that the attack on the ground is not in remote places .
on the contrary , it sits at the central road of the valley .
despite the first attack , pakistani archaeologists repeatedly called for local government protection of 坐佛 and other sites , but the government did nothing to do it .
indeed , militants have plenty of time to do so – and fill explosives on the rock and fill explosives and then detonate them – in broad sense .
they did not , but twice .
for the first time , the emperor ’ s failure was severely damaged by militants ’ missteps .
and , second , they have been lucky not only to blow up the buddha ’ s face , but also to destroy his shoulders and foot .
it is not enough , and now reports about the third attack .
in 1995 , i traveled through the swat valley to study the buddhist treasures .
these breathtaking cultural artifacts , or 雕刻 in the cliff , have been paid for the local muslim masses , who have long believed in buddhism for a long time .
while i am a non-muslim indian woman , i was able to cross the entire region without fear of the region and receiving enthusiastic aid from local residents .
people in all stripes welcome my arrival , and they are willing to visit important buddhist sites .
only ten years later , the atmosphere has been poisoned , so that the leaders of local police and resident leaders are reluctant to stand up to protect their 纪念 sites , or to claim their ownership .
even more distressing , despite the widespread condemnation of attacks on the attacks in pakistan , there is little coverage in the international media , despite the widespread condemnation of the attacks on local officials .
is there no shortage of anger after the war in baghdad , after the war in baghdad , and the 能力 of the national museum ?
there are many important buddhist sites in swat and in northwest pakistan .
at this point , all of these sites are under destruction , owing to the influential influence of islamist leader mullah fattah el-sisi , whose son-in-law , sufi mohammad , founded the extremist extremist .
the community has sent more than 10,000 jihadi fighters to afghanistan in 2001 , alongside the taliban forces in 2001 .
while mohammad was rumored to be languishing in a small prison , mullah operates without any penalty , and has used the airwaves to spread news and intolerance .
it is now angry at the world ’ s people not only against the destruction of dangerous artifacts , but also with desperate pressure on the government , in order to protect the people of pakistan ’ s cultural heritage in order to protect the cultural heritage of the former islamic age .
if the world does not act , we may forever lose the most precious legacy of early buddhist history .
the great britain ’ s failed experiment
florence – british politics has always been a test for the developed world .
in the 1970s , the british model became the poster child for the postwar economic collapse .
the political base of this model was based on consensus-building , underpinned by keynesian demand management .
today , the collapse of our eyes is the “ 轻 ” system , with the establishment of a party that presented itself as a party for “ new labour , ” and , in particular , loosened financial markets .
in the 1960 ’ s , keynesian economic policies created a 幻影 fantasy : high employment levels , high wage growth , and 英伦三岛 , 英伦三岛 , 披头士 , 风 , and 粉彩 , all of which have been 。 .
keynes , however , has continued fiscal expansion without monetary tightening to offset its downsides .
by the 1970 ’ s , this approach was finally brought about to the united kingdom : a large current-account deficit , high inflation , and political gridlock on top priorities .
which group is the first to make sacrifices ?
in early 1974 , edward heath ’ s conservative party ’ s cabinet of coal was fought for “ who governs britain ” in order to “ rule britain . ”
in february , he called for a snap parliamentary election , with no electoral outcome .
heath ’ s approval rating fell to a bottom .
the opposition labour party , too , is not too small to replace the conservative party ’ s program .
it wanted only to avoid confrontation with the unions .
the election brought a stalemate in british politics .
the centrist liberal democratic party was initially balanced , and rumors were prepared to push for electoral reform , arguing that he promised to establish a proportional representation of the free democrats to gain more seats in the coming election in exchange for the return of the conservative party .
the united kingdom ’ s general election on may 6 will most likely lead to the same stalemate as in 1974 .
political deals are already in the making , with the unpopular incumbent prime minister gordon brown , who was the equivalent of edward heath , who was sending the liberal democrats to the liberal democrats , promising to promote constitutional reform .
in 1974 , much of the conservative party , the liberal democratic party ( ldp ) , did not , because the liberal democrats were reluctant to tie their fate together with an unpopular , discredited politician .
the result was a minority of cabinet votes , and it is in the process of offering a few 不痛不痒 policies , with little touch with britain ’ s underlying problems .
the situation in britain today is more like 1974 , not unlike in 1979 , when the thatcher revolution took the country into a new orbit .
today , the economy is also facing major problems – the collapse of the credit bubble , the only difference in banking ( the only difference is that today ’ s banks are larger ) .
both political parties are tired and seem to be trying to imitate their opponents .
the analogy could also be analogies in 1992 , when the two major parties that dominate italian politics – the christian democrats and the communist party of italy – were lost .
the boom in the 2000 ’ s , as in the 1960 ’ s , looks like a living fairy .
in the 1960 ’ s , counter-cyclical fiscal policy made the promise of a comprehensive prosperity ; in the 2000 ’ s , it turned out to be a fantasy for personal debt , rather than government deficits .
the magic of the financial markets makes borrowing and consumption possible .
as in the 1970 ’ s , today ’ s economic collapse has been evident , and the so-called “ everybody benefits ” is clear : owners of housing see rising house prices , expand social welfare coverage , and 陶醉 in the 1960 ’ s .
but , as in the 1970 ’ s , the future of the united kingdom is set to be bumpy , and is gripped by debt .
drastic retrenchment is urgently needed .
at this point , however , both parties felt difficult to face up to the problem , because they were afraid to call for people to call for them before the election .
and , unlike the party ’ s party , the party ’ s party and the opposition party , the party ’ s party and opposition parties can not be confused .
both parties are in the middle of the middle of the electorate , but they are less likely to be able to do so than the democratic party of the liberal democratic party ( ldp ) , which has been the party ’ s party , which has not been subject to corruption scandals , as in the two main parties .
so far , the trend trend suggests that the liberal democrats are very well off .
in his debates , the ldp ’ s leader , the leader of the liberal democratic party , has his own leaders ’ leaders .
moreover , labour and the conservatives are in a political trap .
once they oppose the ldp ’ s stance , they turned out to be extreme , and they have lost their constituents .
but it is not the only thing that the uk needs .
the outcome of the election is likely to be an impasse , with no political party receiving significant majorities , as was the case in the 1970 ’ s , and no wonder the international monetary market ’ s response , reminiscent of the 1970 ’ s .
will the exchange rate soar in 2009 ?
cambridge – 2008 was a year of volatile exchange rates .
the dollar ’ s rise , the yen ’ s entry trajectory , the euro ’ s slide , and the pound ’ s 惨跌 , all the time was a giant hole .
emerging-market countries ’ currencies were hit , like the canadian , australian , 新西兰元 , and the south african rand .
indeed , the currency of a large part of its commodity exporters is affected .
so what will happen next year ?
while only sustained high volatility is safe , we are in an unusual moment , with very different short- and long-term trends .
in the short run , the yen and the dollar continue to benefit from public dissatisfaction with risk , because panicked investors seek to hide .
when other central banks continue to cut interest rates to a very low level , the yen and the dollar are appreciating , and interest rates on the yen and dollar have already taken place .
so , while the us and japan will not raise interest rates in the short run , lower foreign rates still make the dollar and yen more attractive .
commodity prices will remain weak , holding back commodity currencies , especially in the yen , because resource-poor japan is so dependent on imports .
normally , the direction of short-term and long-term exchange rates is consistent .
in fact , a large number of studies show that , for most major currencies , the exchange rate for next week ’ s exchange rate , next month ’ s exchange rate , or next year ’ s exchange rate will be the most accurate forecast of today ’ s exchange rate .
given the dollar ’ s status as a safe haven , continued fiscal crisis is putting upward pressure on the dollar .
commodity prices are also plummeting .
yet the financial crisis will eventually end , and the global recession will end .
and you need to know that neither will soon end soon , and another seven or eight months could be , if not longer .
but , when more normal growth is actually restored , the recent trend toward supporting the dollar and the yen will disappear .
international investors may be grateful to america ’ s aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus , which will accelerate significantly after president barack obama takes office on january 20 .
but investors still fear what happens when money is actually going to be .
many emerging markets will also want to engage in countercyclical macroeconomic policies , but concerns about fiscal sustainability and fear of sharp inflation have left them constrained .
europe ’ s fiscal policy is constrained by the maastricht treaty , and european monetary policy is focused on price stability .
to be sure , china ’ s vast foreign-exchange reserves , like the rest of the world , are rich in macroeconomic policy .
but , as china ’ s rulers know , the country ’ s highly repressed banking system is fragile , and its foreign-exchange reserves could be used to recapitalize them .
so perhaps no region is as expansionary as the us .
so far , global investors lack adequate us treasury bills , and the decline in interest rates on short-term us treasury bonds attests to this .
but much of this demand is short-term and driven by fear of the crisis .
when markets tend to be normal , investors are sure to follow suit and realize that the us has significantly increased its debt in order to fight the recession .
at the same time , as bold monetary easing moves down the price of price stability , today ’ s decline in prices ( or “ deflation ” ) will eventually become inflation .
to be sure , some major currencies ’ movements over the past year have been viewed as normalizing .
in the purchasing power base ( a basic criterion for the purchase of actual goods ) , the euro was absurdly overvalued in the dollar , while the yen was absurdly underestimated in the dollar .
and commodity currencies have to go off their meteoric highs .
so the currency ’ s adjustment over the past year has been a better balance between domestic prices and exchange rates .
but now the exchange rate in emerging-market countries is likely to fall too far , and commodity currencies are so .
in the long run , globalization and economic integration will be revived , and emerging markets and commodity currencies will be strengthened .
at the same time , the prospect of higher us inflation and a higher level of public debt in the us will ultimately weigh on the dollar , as is still worrying about america ’ s trade deficit .
as for the yen , it will suffer as japan ’ s public debt continues to rise , with japan ’ s public debt already among the highest in the world .
japan ’ s continued weakness will eventually hit the yen .
if today ’ s exchange rate represents the dollar ’ s excessive appreciation of the dollar and yen in particular , it will be eased ?
this depends on what one thinks when the financial crisis will ease , and that , like the exchange rate , is hard to predict .
but it will eventually come .
then you wait for dollars and yen to boomerang .
new york – we know about iran ’ s nuclear program , and we know that it can not be encouraged .
iran , reportedly , has two local enriched uranium – some of which have reached 20 % , far exceeding what the civilian population needs .
the international atomic energy agency reports that iran is exploring nuclear warheads .
in short , iran ’ s officials claim that their nuclear program is simply based on electricity generation or medical research .
still , there are many things that the world does not know .
for example , we do not know whether iran is conducting secret activities in undisclosed places , with iran developing a crude nuclear weapon that is estimated to be in a few months .
nor do we know whether iran ’ s fragmented leadership has already decided to develop nuclear weapons , or only temporarily , or only temporarily , calculated that it can gain many of the benefits of acquiring nuclear weapons without risking a genuine nuclear weapon .
in either case , iran ’ s activities have given the world a difficult choice .
all options are costs and risks .
moreover , neither costs nor risks can be calculated accurately .
one option is to accept a nuclear or a nuclear-armed iran and live with it .
this assumes that iran is not using nuclear weapons , just as the soviet union did during the cold war .
the deployment of missile defense , the us can enhance security guarantees and make iran clear that nuclear weapons threaten to use nuclear weapons or use nuclear weapons , and the us will respond forcefully .
but acquiescing to a nuclear-armed iran would be enormous .
given iran ’ s bullying and terrorist activities , a nuclear-armed iran might be more assertive .
iran could also transfer nuclear materials , technology , or weapons to allies , such as venezuela ’ s hugo chávez , or radical organization , such as hezbollah and hamas .
this does not help countries in the region more cautiously and in terms of stability , and iran or israel could strike the attacks in the crisis .
nor should we assume that iran ’ s fragmented and radical leadership often act rationally , with nuclear proliferation confined to the islamic republic .
if iran develops nuclear weapons , countries like saudi arabia , turkey , and egypt will buy or develop their own nuclear weapons .
the war in the middle east is a best manifestation of a nightmare .
the opposite policy options are defensive attacks : military strikes against al qaeda in iran , which is most likely to be attacked by israel , the us , or both .
its core objective is to impede the emergence of a threat that is still gathering .
but there is also a strong hitch .
even a successful defensive attack will be only delaying iran ’ s nuclear program for several years .
iran will almost certainly reestablish al qaeda , and it could move underground , strengthen al qaeda , and make it harder for future attacks .
moreover , iran is likely to retaliate immediately to target targets , which include saudi arabia , iraq , afghanistan , and the rest of the world , and the us mainland .
hezbollah may attack israel .
if all of this happened , because oil shortages and fear , oil prices will skyrocket , potentially leading to recession in many of the world ’ s moribund economies .
the military strikes could also lead to iranian solidarity , reducing the likelihood of a more responsible leadership .
but , while this may be possible , there is no policy that can ensure regime change in iran .
so the main policy toward iran is to impose tougher economic sanctions on iran .
the principle of this policy is that iran ’ s leaders will worry about political loss , as the impact of the regime ’ s growing discontent on sanctions has become increasingly frustrated , and to revise the costs of a nuclear program .
that may happen .
the international community increasingly supports sanctions .
iran ’ s ( iran ’ s economy is largely dependent on more than two million barrels per day ) to find buyers – especially willing buyers who are willing to pay 全价 .
meanwhile , iran ’ s currency is depreciating , leaving many iranians unable to acquire imports .
some elements of the current policy ’ s policies appear to have implications , owing to some covert efforts aimed at reducing iran ’ s ability to import sensitive technologies .
viruses have already invaded iran ’ s computers , reducing the efficiency of the 离心分离 machines that are vital to enriching uranium .
the assassination of individual people could also slow the process of iran ’ s nuclear program .
but blocking iran ’ s efforts is not the same as forcing iran to stop its nuclear program .
so it is time for the current sanctions to be more widely and more problematic ; here , china and russia must decide their priorities .
another problem is whether sanctions will be enough to persuade iran ’ s leaders to accept verifiable limits on their nuclear program .
the third unresolved problem is that israel or the us will tolerate iran ’ s nuclear program long before the military strikes .
indeed , the only certainty is that iran ’ s nuclear program will be an important international issue in 2012 – most likely to be the most important international issue .
the new natural nature
york – six million years ago , a celestial body hit the planet and wiped out the dinosaurs .
that is the space for the growers to endure , and eventually develop tools for armed , linguistic , 直立 apes , and some believe that their power is almost as large as that of 那颗 objects .
as we enter the so-called anthropocene , human activity dominates climate and environmental impact , and we must examine how we use this power .
many believe that the world is becoming increasingly “ unnatural ” – tainted by humans .
but , given that humans evolve into the world ’ s ecosystems , everything that we do – 杀绝 species , destruction of forests , the atmosphere of pollution – can be seen as a natural product of evolution .
according to this logic , the world has not become so natural because we changed it .
to be sure , environmentalists and conservationists have been tempted to make the environment more resilient to the past .
the reality in today ’ s world is that there is simply no way to distinguish the human race from humans from humans .
across the globe , ecological and evolutionary processes have been the way to survive from environmental changes .
so , instead of automatically opposing this change , environmentalists and conservationists should distinguish between “ good change ” and “ bad change . ”
the challenge is to define good and bad .
most people would agree that a single species would be a bad thing .
but when it comes to the disappearance of some species , such as birds who are prone to 染病 islands , we can choose not to intervene , because reality is that it is difficult to stop the “ higher ” model that they have been evolving into “ higher . ”
nonetheless , conserving as many species as possible makes sense .
today ’ s descendants of today ’ s species will continue to form all future ecosystems – in which they form peculiar conditions for human or planetary processes – and thus have an obvious advantage .
in fact , more species create “ spare parts ” of the environment , which protects a long-term environmental insurance .
more contentious is shifting species to new ecosystems .
the gardener prefers to plant species in its backyard , but local populations often see “ foreign ” plants that are often growing in their backyard as invaders – a dangerous deviation from the past .
sometimes , these plants are not even herbicides .
resistance to this change is so strong that the uk will wait for about 1,000 years , such as the rabbit , as a local species .
in australia , the 澳洲 – introduced centuries ago – should be thought to be a matter of local debate .
but , so far , roughly 2,000 central and local animal plants in central and eastern europe have not directly led to local extinction , mostly causing little harm or no harm .
indeed , over the last few centuries , imported species have increased biological diversity in much of the world in the region .
these regional biodiversity increases – a 20 % increase in the number of wild species in europe and the united states , and the increase in plant species in the archipelago and other pacific islands – should be viewed as positive developments .
given this – and it is not realistic to repatriate most foreign species – new species should be accepted immediately .
this is certainly a more meaningful debate than the protracted debate on them in the name of an idealized old world .
this is not backward , because new species have been producing a new species , especially through the hybridization of migration .
over the last three centuries , the 杂种 crop in the uk – such as grass grass and 猴 面花 – is more polluted than the entire european population ( 记录 ) .
there is something similar in north america .
this new evolution in human endeavor means that , in the anthropocene , we are the creators of the old biological diversity , as well as the creators of new biological diversity .
we no longer rely on the planet ; we are now changing the planet .
recognizing this , we should certainly be clearly not all of the changes that are “ bad . ”
but there should be more acceptance and even active action for biological changes that make species meet .
i , in my new book the earth ’ s heirs : the earth ’ s “ natural boom , ” argues that we live in a “ new natural nature . ”
it remains as ecologically and evolutionary as it was in the past .
the difference is that this dynamic is now largely attributable to the activities of a human race , which is growing .
species will enter the new human environment , and evolve with us .
we should make them work .
perhaps we should even help them .
agriculture ’ s bad medicine
san diego – most of us are oblivious to the threat posed by our actions , without which the existence of these threats will not be thought .
the use of antibiotics is so .
but the efficacy of antibiotics is being squandered by their imprudent use in agriculture .
today , more than half of the use of antibiotics worldwide is used in food production .
farmers use antibiotics to treat infections .
the problem is that they often end up with antibiotics , or they use them to remedy inappropriate agricultural practices – such as overcrowding to factory farms – or to use them to accelerate growth and lower production costs .
while such practices may be impossible to do , their overall effects are dangerous .
antibiotic resistance is exacerbated by the environment that people eat through food or animal waste .
and that has an adverse impact on human health .
every day , in hospitals and clinics around the world , patients are treating bacterial infections with antibiotics , gonorrhea , or pneumonia .
others are using antibiotics , in order to avoid bacterial infections in the basic situation or treatment ( such as chemotherapy ) .
unfortunately , many widely used antibiotics are losing their ability to protect patients , treatments for diseases ; and the key reason is that agriculture ’ s daily abuse is a daily abuse of antibiotics .
shortly after the scottish 微生物学家 alexander fleming discovered a fungus capable of killing bacteria , it recognized that overuse of antibiotics would cause resistance .
as he warned in 1945 , “ the people who use penicillin are morally responsible for the death of those who die with penicillin for infection . ”
large-scale misuse of antibiotics in agriculture is one of the most notorious forms of “ 轻率 use . ”
in 2015 , the national pigs discovered a new antibiotic-resistant bacterium , and the chinese patients were then in such cases .
two types of variant , then discovered that the genes that make these bacteria resistant to antimicrobial resistance could be found in the world ’ s farms and hospitals – the so-called “ 流动性 ” – now found in farms and hospitals around the world .
if the reckless use of antibiotics in agriculture continues , the impact on people will be severe .
fortunately , there is a solution .
more than a decade ago , the eu banned agricultural use of agricultural agriculture , excluding treatment infections .
moreover , while the rule is imperfect , it helps to reduce the use of antibiotics .
in denmark , for example , the use of antibiotics for antibiotics has declined , despite a slight increase in antibiotic use for treating 猪瘟 drugs .
these gains , however modest , are encouraging – and should be further encouraged .
the problem of antimicrobial resistance is a global threat , so only multilateral cooperation – the form of a new treaty or trade agreement – can ensure that farmers are subject to the minimum standards of the minimum – without unnecessary use of antibiotics .
in december 2015 , a study by the british government , jim o ’ neill , led by jim o ’ neill , found that altering the most effective means of behavior is to limit the use of antibiotics , but allowing individual countries to try to use taxes or regulations to achieve that limit .
moreover , i argued in other papers that farmers should be asked to obtain prescriptions before the livestock use .
although the eu ’ s ban includes this provision , the rule is not the rule of law .
if a global consensus – for example , through the g20 or the united nations general assembly – chooses to raise taxes on agricultural antibiotics , countries that choose to tax agricultural antibiotics can drive the shift in alternative farming operations .
money could also be used to finance research and development in vitro meat , which dramatically reduced the suffering of animals and the burden of infectious diseases .
most important , the new treaty must allow signatories to meet their farmers ’ diverse needs .
the goal of global action should be to incentivize farmers to reduce antibiotic use , not to punish them .
while the world has a long way to go from this goal , the us has shown that the us has a way to change its approach if it is encouraged and encouraged by the us .
still , most of us remain blind to the unintended consequences of our decision .
unless people voluntarily stop consuming factory farms , we must rely on governments and multilateral organizations to keep us right .
antibiotics for effective antibiotics
mexico city – from the discovery of penicillin in 1928 to the last major antibiotics in the 1960 ’ s , humanity ’ s ability to fight 病原菌 has changed dramatically .
but , over time , the number of antibiotics with the bacteria is gradually declining , and some pathogens have reacted resistant to most or all existing drugs .
as a result , the infections that could once be treated are becoming lethal .
currently , antibiotic resistance causes roughly 700,000 deaths per year , resulting in financial losses worth tens of billions of dollars .
because antibiotic resistance continues to affect our treatment of cancer , transplant organs , and implant prosthesis , the loss of antibiotic resistance will be even more severe .
the rise in antimicrobial resistance is caused by many factors .
bacteria can reproduce and mutate quickly , and can create a network of similar “ genetic internet ” that allows some to “ download ” antibiotic-resistant genes .
moreover , most antibiotics are natural products of soil bacteria , and antibiotic resistance can occur naturally in the soil .
when large-scale antibiotics are introduced , bacteria with resistance become increasingly prevalent .
today , humans release about 100,000 tons of antibiotics annually .
if these antibiotics are applied properly and save lives , reasonable cost-benefit analysis may be possible .
but about 70 % of antibiotics are being used to accelerate the growth of farm animals .
the remaining 30 % , though used for treatment , are often inaccurate or unnecessary .
and , because most of the drugs used in wastewater have been released into the environment with wastewater and dung , bacteria in soil , water , and wildlife can also be exposed .
if this misuse of antibiotics does not end soon , we will soon find that there is no drug available for bacterial infections .
but while some measures are taking place – a high-level meeting in the united nations high-level meeting last september – they are not enough .
what humans really need is an immediate global ban on agricultural use of antibiotics .
moreover , the clinical 使用指南 of antibiotics , which now parallel to how to choose a relationship with the medical profession , must be reviewed and enforced .
these two measures alone – both of which can be enacted by government regulators – could reduce the use of antibiotics by nearly 80 % , thereby slowing antibiotic resistance considerably .
of course , it is not easy for governments to implement these policies , because they are contrary to strong economic interests , most notably the pharmaceutical industry , which sells $ 40 billion per year in antibiotics .
while large 药企对 continues to abuse the interest in antibiotics , it is not interested in developing new antibiotics against drug-resistant bacteria .
the bottom line is that antibiotics can treat cancer and chronic diseases .
so the big pharmaceutical companies demand “ incentives ” to develop new antibiotics , such as extending patents for patents or tax cuts ; another is to provide astronomical prices for new drugs .
but these incentives provide the benefit of pharmaceutical companies far more than actual r & d costs ; as a result , it is a tool to make public money available to private money – precisely the problem .
but , beyond these carrots , societies should consider using a stick .
i call it nanbu ( no antibiotics , no business ) .
nanbu would add rankings to companies that are actively involved in new antibiotics .
companies that do not manufacture or sell antibiotics for agricultural purposes , or to refuse to promote antibiotics in areas where they do not need such drugs , are also available .
and firms that engage in the opposite behavior – selling antibiotics as livestock “ growth 促进剂 ” or actively encouraging physicians to prescribe patients – will lose scores .
at first , almost all pharmaceutical companies will lose scores .
but , over time , the rating can be adjusted , and it is based on the reasonable advice of an independent group of experts .
the ratings can then be used to guide decisions .
for many types of relevant drugs , there are several options for producing a similar efficacy and safety .
as a result , clinicians could use drugs from highly rated companies to avoid market access to the market .
patients should encourage such decisions , and follow suit on the same principle .
over time , antibiotics could once again gain stronger profitability , because the companies can sell more other drugs , so that they gradually reduce demand for expensive incentives .
the key to nanbu ’ s success is to ensure widespread awareness of the threat posed by antimicrobial resistance and its related responses .
this would promote patients and doctors to consider nanbu ratings when deciding how to use them , and to force their governments to take more forceful action .
the pressure to use public propaganda to strengthen governments ’ ability to implement necessary but difficult policies has been successful – examples that include advances in forest and fisheries sustainability .
public propaganda is a priority for the un conference .
but to advance this global effort , we need new global institutions to take responsibility .
nanbu as an international ngo could live in the face of most multinational pharmaceutical companies and be protected by domestic lobbying or political pressure .
antibiotic-resistant bacteria are a global threat , and thus can not be addressed by domestic policies alone .
the world must think together and act together to protect the enormous benefits and benefits of antibiotics for humanity .
a fair war on antimicrobial resistance
brighton – existing anti-microbial drugs are becoming increasingly effective .
if current trends are allowed to continue , we may be able to recapture the conditions of antibiotics before we are allowed to become a major killer .
meeting the challenge of drug-resistant microbes will not be easy , which requires large-scale investment in new anti-microbial drugs , and to control and limit new treatments to ensure that medicines are effective .
as with climate change , international coordination is based on any effective strategy .
in particular , there must be coordination of pharmaceutical companies , government payers , and the global poor .
indeed , the key to success is encouraging the poor to participate .
low- and middle-income countries are an important source of drug-resistant bacteria .
a crowded housing , poor sanitation , and compromised immune systems are fertile ground for infectious diseases , whether because of malnutrition or 慢性感染 .
the poor quality of antibiotics is misused to make bacteria an opportunity to generate resistance .
moreover , a significant improvement in transportation infrastructure , which has significantly improved rural and urban areas , has led to rapid 基因 of drug-resistant genes around the world .
in many countries that are prone to infectious diseases , the government ’ s health-care systems can not meet demand , so the gap is filled with suppliers from health-care experts to the informal providers of regulation .
such an arrangement would be useful .
for example , a recent study by bangladesh shows that antibiotics provided by the so-called “ village doctors ” that are operating on the border have helped to reduce mortality rates for 败血症 sepsis and childhood pneumonia .
but there are also considerable evidence that the drug quality is rife and is frequently abused .
many people have not been able to use their medicines for a process .
one response would be to develop and enforce legislation that is only buying antibiotics for doctors .
but it would likely severely limit the access to antibiotics for the poor , raising the death rate , and thus both politically unacceptable and politically unacceptable .
the alternative is to develop new strategies to improve antibiotic treatment through informal channels .
for starters , it is safe to invest in a reliable 监测数据 of common infections .
the treatment guidelines must include such information , and will give them all providers of antibiotics .
moreover , high-quality antibiotics must be provided at reasonable prices .
counterfeit products must be eliminated from markets , and in the form of partnerships between governments , pharmaceutical companies , and civil-society groups to control quality .
there is a strong way to ensure that drug prices are low ; in some cases , public subsidies may be necessary .
lower prices need to be aligned with provisions to prevent abuse .
packaging innovations that produce a full range of combinations of drugs could simplify treatment decisions .
similarly , developing low-cost diagnostic technologies can reduce demand for treatment based on symptoms .
the biggest challenge is to encourage suppliers of antibiotics to change their behavior .
this requires certification , amending payment mechanisms , and encouraging intermediaries to provide technical support and monitor effectiveness .
these institutions could include ngos , religious institutions , social entrepreneurs , and companies that distribute drugs .
such activities are unlikely to achieve commercial interests , so the support of the government , philanthropy , and drug producers becomes necessary .
at the same time , reliable information and advice must be made to the right use of antibiotics .
it is especially important if citizens rely heavily on their own resources to cope with the disease .
implementing a systematic reform of antibiotics requires a national and global union .
the fundamental goal is to develop basic standards of conduct for health-care workers and pharmaceutical companies that reflect the needs of patients and communities .
governments must play an effective role in this process ; businesses that develop , produce , and sell drugs and diagnostic technologies will promote cooperation .
the premise that humans benefit is that antibiotics must be managed in a fair , sustainable manner .
the anti-democratic heart of populism
santiago – representatives of the international monetary fund ’ s annual meeting in early october agree that , “ assume that the republicans , irrespective of sexual harassment and trumped-up rhetoric , are likely to lead to populist protectionists . ”
the underlying implication is that the rise of populist forces in the us and europe is a direct consequence of globalization and its immediate effects : the negative effects include unemployment and stagnant middle-class incomes .
davos participants don ’ t like this conclusion , but they embraced it with passionate enthusiasm .
but there is another more persuasive argument : while economic stagnation can fuel voters ’ entry into populist camps , economic conditions are not necessary and sufficient to suffer .
on the contrary , princeton political scientist stuart mueller has proposed in his new book : populism is a “ shadow ” that is “ never out of touch . ”
populism is not the essence of taxation ( or employment or income equality ) .
its essence is representation – and who will speak to the people .
proponents of democracy are often ridiculed as 唱赞歌 .
abraham lincoln , for example , has proposed “ government , by the people , the people , and the people . ”
but modern representative democracy – or any democracy – is inevitably in the short run .
four years after the election , a candidate who campaigned on partisan machines is hard to think about abraham lincoln ’ s words .
as mill put it , the goal of populism is to achieve the broken promises of democracy that italy ’ s democratic theorist 波 比奥 calls the broken promises of democracy , “ just like people can agree on consensus . ”
as if they were a man , it is as if people elect the right representatives to make the fate of their destiny in their hands .
populism is based on a toxic triad : denial of complexity , pluralism , and distortion .
most of us believe that social choice is complex , and there is a natural and reasonable view of future measures .
but populists deny this .
as ralph 伦多夫 once said , populism is simple ; democracy is complex .
in the populist view , only one is right – the perception of people .
if so , the complex mechanisms of liberal democracy and its emphasis on delegation and representation are unnecessary .
the parliament does not need endless debate : a unified will can easily be expressed in a single vote .
so populists are keen on plebiscites .
brexit , remember ?
not just anyone can represent the people .
they advocate absolute representation .
remember trump ’ s boast in the republican national convention : “ i alone can fix it . ”
politics is always about morality , aristotle told us .
but populists favor what mueller calls a particular political ethic .
those who are right about the world are moral ; everyone else is corrupt and corrupt .
this is precisely what hugo chávez , venezuela ’ s ruler , promoted .
after his failure , he was expected to push the country ’ s economy into an american imperialism .
the truth is that we are against them .
from this perspective , populism is not an effective corrective to democracy and an effective corrective to democracy , as marine le pen , rafael correa , recep tayyip erdoğan , or various western intellectuals want you to believe .
on the contrary , it is intrinsically anti-democratic , so it can threaten democracy itself .
so what is to be done ?
my prescription ( not mueller ’ s , but my ) is that democrats must ( and can ) beat populists in areas where they excel .
the toxic triad can be translated into beneficial elements .
first , the complexity of the situation must be acknowledged .
only one thing to do with voters , like being deceived , is the same thing as to their children .
people living in hard life must know that the world is complex .
they don ’ t mind it .
they were adults , and they should be talking with adults .
second , don ’ t treat many ideas and identities as technical issues that need to be addressed .
on the contrary , respecting these diversity is a moral feature of social morality .
in fact , we are not exactly the same as we can live with a great democracy .
we should promote it vigorously .
don ’ t believe that a tired cliché is being asked to appeal to emotion , and democrats must be sensible .
we must promote pluralistic democracy in a way that inspires emotion .
third , safeguarding – and upgrading – representation .
in a complex technical issue , delegating delegation .
taking advantage of modern technologies to make other choices – particularly those close to daily life – closer to voters .
tighter campaign-finance laws , stricter norms of lobbying , and affirmative action programs are needed to ensure that representatives represent and educate people .
these measures alone will not ensure that all of the broken promises of democracy are fulfilled .
but we can not expect a series of simple actions to solve complex problems .
nor can we assume that it alone can fix it .
if we are so convinced , we are populists .
to protect democracy , this is precisely what we should avoid .
the abdication of the left
隆达 , spain – with the world ’ s withdrawal from brexit , economists and policymakers understand that they grossly underestimated the fragility of the current globalized situation .
the wave of popular revolt that is sweeping the global tide is spreading : 强调 and 强调 national and national identities , demands for greater democratic control and accountability , rejection of centrist parties and distrust of elites .
some economists , including me , do warn the consequences of economic globalization beyond the boundaries of existing management , stability , and legalization .
hyper-globalization in finance was intended to create seamlessly integrated world markets , but it tore societies apart .
more surprising is the decidedly right-wing political response .
european countries are predominantly nationalist and nativist populists , and the left has gained significant gains in a few places like greece and spain .
america ’ s right-wing demagogue donald trump has successfully replaced the republican establishment , while the left bernie sanders did not defeat hillary clinton .
the emerging establishment of the emerging establishment is highly reluctant to agree : globalization exacerbates the division of class , amplifying the gap between resources and capable use of world markets and those who do not .
income and class divisions have traditionally strengthened political forces in relative contrast to ethnic , ethnic , or religious identities .
so why did the left fail to meet the globalization of political challenges ?
one answer is that other globalization “ shocks ” have papered over the problem .
people feel that large numbers of migrants and refugees from the very different countries that have been drawn from cultural traditions have exacerbated identity polarization , while far-right politicians are well placed to use such a status quo .
so it is no surprise that right-wing politicians from trump to marine le pen are 确立 in a way that 确立 the state ’ s prestige .
latin american democracies provide a telling contrast .
globalization ’ s main performance in these countries is trade and foreign investment shocks , not immigration shocks .
globalization is almost synonymous with so-called washington consensus policies and financial openness .
the migration problem in the middle east and africa remains limited and politically salient .
so , in latin america , bolivia , ecuador , and the most disastrous venezuela , populism has returned to the left .
the exceptions to the two main exceptions to the european right ’ s return – greece and spain – are similar .
in greece , the main political 断点 was the austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
in spain , until recently , most immigrants came from culturally similar latin american countries .
there are no other places where the far-right forces are growing rapidly elsewhere .
but the situation in latin america and southern europe may have exposed a greater weakness in the left : the absence of a clear plan to restore capitalism in the twenty-first century .
from syriza ’ s syriza to brazil ’ s labour party , the left has failed to propose economically viable and politically popular ideas .
so economists and technocrats are largely responsible for this .
instead of contributing to the reform program , they easily give way to market fundamentalism and accepted their core principles .
worse , they led the hyper-globalization movement at a critical juncture .
the european union , the oecd , and the international monetary fund will free the flow of capital – especially short-term capital flows – as a policy criterion for the most lethal policy in the global economy in recent decades .
harvard business school professor 艾儒蔚 艾儒蔚 has shown that the late 1980 ’ s was not free-market makers , but rather the french technocrats , as the european commission jacques delors and the oecd ( the oecd ) have made to the french technocrats with close ties with the french socialists .
likewise , in the us , it is the technocrats , such as lawrence summers , associated with the keynesian democrats , who promoted deregulation strongly .
the socialist technocrats seem to have concluded from mitterrand ’ s failed keynesian experiment in the early 1980s that domestic economic management was impossible , and no other real measure would replace financial globalization .
the good news is that the left-wing vacuum in the left is being filled , and there is no reason to believe that “ no other choice ” is authoritarian .
politicians in the left have no reason to do so without the “ respectable ” academic power of economics .
to take a few examples : anna admati and simone johnson ’ s radical banking reforms ; thomas 皮克特 and tony atkinson proposed a variety of policies against domestic inequality ; 马里亚纳 和 and josé h. summers have called for long-term public investment in the public sector to promote inclusive innovation ;
there are enough elements for the left to use a programmatic economic response .
the most critical differences between the left and the right are the more fragmented the right – the right of the right , “ we ” and the logic of “ them ” – while the left can eliminate social fragmentation by bridging the gap .
so there are early left-wing reforms ( keynesianism , social democracy , and the welfare state ) – the paradox that emerged in saving capitalism while making it redundant .
without such a response , populists and far-right groups will fill the void , and they will lead the world as they did before , and their leadership only compounds fragmentation and fragmentation .
the new socialism of fools
berkeley – according to mainstream economic theory , globalization will “ make all boats breakfast , ” and there is little impact on broad income distribution .
but “ globalization ” is not just an import barrier to the elimination of tariffs and other 生产商 producers with rent-seeking advantages .
as harvard economist dani rodrik frequently points out , economic theory predicts that the elimination of tariffs and non-tariff barriers does bring net benefits ; but it would also create a massive redistribution of barriers , which would eliminate the relative benefits of smaller barriers .
globalization , for its purposes , is different .
it should be understood as a process , and , in the process , technological advances that reduce the cost of transportation and communications make the world increasingly interconnected .
to be sure , this form of globalization has enabled foreign producers to export goods and services to distant markets .
but it also opens up export markets for the other side , lowering costs .
in the end , consumers have bought more and less before .
according to standard economic theory , redistribution will occur only if the inputs needed for a country ’ s exports are vastly different from their imports .
but there is no such difference in today ’ s global economy .
in the us , the financial balance of financial balances means that more americans are engaged in construction workers , capital-goods producers , and nurses , as well as health aides and family health aides .
likewise , the surplus of services means more americans than in 钢筋 大厦 ( and 高薪 ) advisory work , as well as 门卫 and cleaners .
meanwhile , the manufacturing deficit could create more overseas manufacturing jobs for countries with relatively low labor costs ; but it did not destroy much employment , because us manufacturing is already a highly capital-intensive industry .
as stanford university economist robert hall has been emphasizing for three decades , in the us , there is more than the number of workers who produce cars .
the us imports from abroad to import relatively unskilled labor , but they do not displace much of america ’ s unskilled labor force .
as a result , at least in theory , us employment shifts from manufacturing to construction , services , and nursing industries may have some impact on overall income distribution of gender , but not for class income distribution .
so why is there so much resistance to globalization in the twenty-first century ?
i see four reasons .
first and foremost , it is easy for politicians to blame the country ’ s problems on foreigners and migrants who do not vote .
in 1890 , the habsburg empire of the habsburg empire blamed the economic ills on the jewish people as a famous observation : the austrian dissident · 维特 famously observed that “ Der growth will rise to an anemic level of growth , ” the anti-semitism of anti-semitism .
the same is true of anti-globalization today .
people want a simple narrative to explain why they have not lived up to the prosperity that they once promised , and why the gap between the rich and the rest of the rich and others is widening .
third , china ’ s economic rise coincided with the global north ’ s struggle to achieve full employment .
contrary to hayek ’ s followers and andrew mellon , the economic rebalancing ( readjustments ) did not occur in a bankruptcy that has forced labor and capital out of low productivity , low demand in sectors that have driven labor and capital to high productivity , and to high demand .
thus , neoliberalism requires not only openness and competition , global change , and price stability .
it relies on full employment and almost constant prosperity , just as economists john maynard keynes warned in the 1920s and 1930s .
in recent decades , the neoliberal order has failed to deliver any of its conditions , most likely because , even the best politicians are in power , they can not achieve these conditions .
fourth , policymakers have failed to compensate for this failure with more radical social policies and economic and geographic redistribution .
us president donald trump ’ s recent telling northern yorkers that they should leave the region to find jobs elsewhere , simply in the past generation of politicians in the north .
the global north ’ s current political and economic woes are not very different from the 1920s and 1930s .
as keynes pointed out at the time , the key is to create and maintain full employment , so that most other problems can be solved .
and the austro-hungarian economist karl polanyi argued that the role of protecting the social economy ’ s rights is the government ’ s role .
people believe that they have a right to live in a healthy society , with stable jobs , with a decent income that increases over time .
but these presumed rights are not property rights and natural-resource rights – the currency of neoliberalism – in the sense of the new liberalism .
the global financial crisis and the “ great recession ” in the global north have been over for ten years .
governments still have not repaired the damage caused by these events .
if they do not , the “ XX ” of fools will continue to wreak havoc in the coming decades .
immigration and the new class divide
singapore – the united kingdom ’ s european affairs minister , 登 麦克法 , recently warned that members of labour deserve as much as possible for the global economy , and don ’ t care about immigration as much as they do .
as he put it , “ you can find satisfaction from someone else ’ s suffering and can give others a chance . ”
i think our policies should focus on giving people opportunities . ”
such sensible views are rare in the world , such as the belief that such sensible views are rare in the world , such as those of immigrants , bankers , muslims , “ liberal elites , ” “ european union officials , ” or even some of something familiar .
world leaders should take note .
in the us , the republican party , backed by tea party activists , is threatening to close the government , because president barack obama has provided an opportunity for undocumented immigrants who have already worked in the us for years to come .
the uk independence party ( ukip ) is pushing for a plan to ban permanent citizenship in five years .
russia ’ s deputy prime minister , dmitry rogozin , once released a video promise to “ clean up ” rubbish from moscow – a garbage call from the former soviet republics as garbage .
even the famously tolerant dutch and danes are increasingly voting for partisan parties that punished immigration .
the dutch freedom party , which can free up muslims , wants to ban all mosques .
even singapore ’ s highly harassed and harassed opposition – almost everyone in singapore – has come from appealing to people ’ s dissatisfaction with immigrants ( mainly in india and india ) , who are perceived as taking jobs from “ natives . ”
does the tea party fanatics , russian chauvinists , fearful dutch and danes , and singaporean leftists like singapore ’ s left and singapore ’ s leftist leftists ?
but the poor have little to do with the livelihoods of middle-aged white americans who support the tea party .
the uk independence party ’ s popularity is rare in some places .
and many of the dutch freedom party ’ s voters are not close to any mosque .
anti-immigrant sentiment is not confined to traditional left-right divisions .
the tea party ( ukip ) , or the uk freedom party ’ s advocates of working with working-class voters who genuinely worry about being left behind by low-wage foreigners , is fearful of failing to keep pace with a rapidly changing , supranational world .
in the right , support for the conservative party is split between business interests , which benefit from immigration or supranational institutions .
the british tories can find explanations for the freedom of liberals .
nigel farage , ukip ’ s leader , is more focused on promoting his extreme national independence than in economic development .
and , on the left , disagreement about the claims of racism and intolerance , and those who want to remain “ solidarity ” among those who want to preserve the job and the rest of the working class , differed .
it would be a mistake to dismiss anxiety about the angst about immigration as a revolt against globalization ’ s economic bias and apprehension .
the nation-state , religion , and cultural identity ( there is a lack of more accurate adjectives ) is being transformed , though the dynamics of the shift are less a matter of globalization .
in the new global economy , both losers and winners are clear .
educated men and women who are able to communicate effectively in various international contexts are certainly beneficiaries .
and those who lack the necessary education or experience – there is no shortage of people – are struggling .
in other words , a new class of divisions does not divide between rich and poor , but more often educated urban elites and less sophisticated , flexible , and 灵活 provincials .
the provincials ’ political leaders ( and their supporters ) are sometimes wealthier than their hated urban elites .
they still feel scorned .
as a result , they are all the more resentful and painful , like all those who are preoccupied with bewildering and confusing world .
populist demagogues want to stir up such resentments , 痛骂 foreigners who pay little for income , or do not work .
but the relative success of a minority of ethnic minorities and immigrants is even greater .
this explains the cause of obama ’ s hatred .
americans know that whites will be a minority , and the color of color will increasingly be held .
at this point , all tea party members and those who like them can do just that , “ give the country back ! ”
of course , this requirement is impossible .
without the prospect of mass cleansing of mass ethnic cleansing across bosnia , americans and others have no choice but to live outside of a more diverse society .
likewise , economic globalization can not be undone .
but regulation can and should be improved .
after all , something is worth protecting .
we do not want to allow culture , education , lifestyles , or work to be fully undermined by the creative destruction of market forces .
the problem is that these calls are more likely to attract highly educated , secure groups , rather than those who feel disenfranchised in today ’ s global economy .
the problem with the left-wing parties that increasingly represent the interests of urban elites is a serious problem , while rural populists are pushing for traditional conservatives to turn to the right in the dark areas of popular hatred .
global cooperation as a life-and-death issue
london – the uncertainty generated by the united kingdom ’ s recent vote to leave the european union has hit global markets , and has been dominated by headlines .
but when we prepare for new political tests , we must not lose sight of the challenges that we have faced , especially the global health challenges posed by the rise in antimicrobial resistance , which is marked by economic efficiency and political stability .
as it stands , some 700,000 people die each year from drug-resistant infections .
by 2050 , the data could rise to 10 million per year , costing the world ’ s world gdp worth $ 100 trillion .
to avoid such an outcome , the review on amr , which i led in may , announced a strategy for responding to these infections , ensuring that the necessary new antibiotic development and a more effective approach to human health and agricultural production have been proposed .
four of the ten interventions we propose are particularly important :
· launch a global campaign against different regions in order to raise awareness of the amr problem .
· the market failure to provide a one-time market-entry reward for the development of new antibiotics in research and development for successful new drugs , while ensuring that the global level of research and development is fully available to research and development .
· advance innovation and improve the application of diagnostic technologies to support the efficient use of antibiotics .
· implement country-level targets aimed at reducing unnecessary use of antibiotics in agriculture and human health .
with the final report completed , commentary will continue to urge international political leaders to act directly .
for example , as chairman of the review , i recently convened the world health assembly in geneva to discuss our advice at the united nations and us policymakers in new york and washington .
in these discussions , it is remarkable that policymakers have become increasingly aware of the dangers of amr .
just two years ago , the topic of drug-resistant infections was often met with “ what is amr , ” or “ why should finance minister be responsible for a health crisis ? ”
few understood the scale and multifaceted nature of this challenge ; and the need for a comprehensive approach .
i asked me a similar question when british prime minister david cameron first invited me to lead the amr review .
the situation has changed considerably since then .
policymakers in countries with diverse economies and political institutions are engaging in the amr problem , with some countries already taking targeted steps .
all of this brings hope to people , who may start to initiate real change in 2016 .
but hope is one thing ; action is very different .
while the high-level meeting of the bacteria ’ s amr raises the right spirit , we can not succeed in translating the current momentum into concrete action if the united nations summit in two countries , from the united nations summit in september to the united nations summit , began with the united nations summit in september .
while recent discussions suggest that such meetings are likely to reach a deal , such an agreement would be uncertain .
at the g-20 summit , the necessary agreement should aim to develop a global mechanism for a new global market for affordable , accessible new antibiotics .
the un ’ s goal should be to implement the slogan “ access , not glut , ” to sign a deal to reduce unnecessary use of antibiotics , and launch a global campaign campaign .
investing more money in new antibiotics and diagnostics is also vital to tackling amr .
crucially , the agreement must have teeth .
for starters , tackling amr should be incorporated into broader economic-development strategies , including by implementing the un sustainable development goals .
and progress on targets should be measured regularly , not only for policymakers , companies , and health-care systems , but also by other countries .
to do that , we may need new metrics for calculating the impact of amr .
although it sounds technical ( and that is true ) , the reality is that the most prominent amr problem is to identify a common indicator that can alter countries ’ approaches to their own goals and make us better measured in the coming years .
finally , to prevent changes in political objectives and figures , we need to set the same advocates in the fight against amr .
for example , a united nations envoy to amr could be appointed to make the case for sustained propaganda , and to monitor the importance of countries to do their part .
without a coherent reminder of the rise in amr , let alone timely progress , the world is likely to be disrupted by other problems , and thus will miss the opportunity to push the necessary reforms to prevent drug-resistant infections from rising .
over the last few years , governments , businesses , and international organizations have made significant progress in dealing with amr .
but now we need to make real decisions .
if the slow-motion car crash that is to be avoided is to be avoided , our leaders must take action quickly .
we know what should be done ; now we must get there .
tackling amr with the imf
london – this month marks the first anniversary of the united nations high-level meeting on antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) , which the united kingdom ’ s independent review on amr helped to organize .
because i am chairman of amr , i was also because of my team and the united kingdom ’ s health minister , davis davies .
last year ’ s high-level meeting , the member states ’ representatives will convene again in two years to assess progress – and thus in september 2018 .
the conference also called for an interagency coordination group to guide efforts to contain amr in two years .
the group was convened by a group of highly committed people .
more broadly , policymakers at the national and international levels are starting to focus more on the threat of amr .
indeed , after the un high-level meeting , the g20 has made lofty efforts to curb amr .
at the g20 ’ s summit in hamburg in july , governments agreed to establish a “ r & d partnership , ” and to phase out the use of antibiotics to use antibiotics in agriculture .
the united kingdom ’ s review on amr recommended an additional $ 2 billion in early-stage research on amr , so the effort to establish a r & d center is a welcome welcome .
but the agreement to limit the use of antibiotics in agriculture is even more significant .
in the past , the g20 ’ s major members rejected such commitments .
and , in a document based on the un high-level meeting , agriculture has not been mentioned , owing to fears that the final agreement was stillborn .
the pace of the un and the g20 is encouraging .
but the fight against amr is far from over .
looking ahead , one of the biggest challenges lies in individual countries and multilateral organizations , such as the un itself .
how can we determine whether governments and institutions follow through on their lofty declarations ?
first , we can look at the intersection of economics and public health .
in my view , the international monetary fund should lead the way .
the research that peter 桑兹 and his colleagues published in the lancet in may 2016 shows that outbreaks of infectious diseases produce enormous economic costs , but they are seldom considered to account for the macroeconomic risk .
the imf has already had regular assessments of the country ’ s economic health , and financial markets ’ analysis is high .
for economic health , too , the imf can make excellent performance in tracking progress on amr .
more than a decade ago , the eu announced that it would prohibit the use of antibiotics for livestock growth .
but , beyond the occasional investigation of journalists ’ attention , who really has to do the same , and to investigate the progress of the member states ?
in the united kingdom , my colleagues from amr and the government reactions raised by our advice have been deep , especially in reducing prescriptions for antibiotics , preventing 住院 infections , and limiting antibiotic use in agriculture to 毫克 牲畜 .
over the past year , i have spoken publicly about the threats of amr in several british universities .
i have been encouraged to meet with academic researchers who are more subject to the problem than in the past .
but , by asking audiences , i realized that few people understand the government ’ s policy response .
this may be just because my audiences don ’ t know ; but i doubt it .
more likely , the government has failed to deliver on its promises .
the imf is ideally positioned to solve the problem as part of its conventional economic assessment .
its economic analysis is far less valuable for a richer country , and in these countries , preventing outbreaks of infectious diseases can boost long-term economic growth .
at a anniversary of the first anniversary of the un high-level meeting , my last concern is that policymakers still have not approved a market-entry reward for encouraging the development of new drugs and diagnostics .
these innovations will be crucial to preventing and discovery amr , and incentives to stimulate these innovations are increasingly viewed as the right way .
here , too , the imf can provide valuable advice .
the social science of medicine
davos – when i was a medical student in the 1980 ’ s , i was in my 新几内亚 巴布亚 .
this is a terrible experience .
my temperature soared , and was anemic .
but i eat the medicine and got it right .
this is not a pleasant experience , but thanks to cheap and cheap malaria , i have never been in danger .
the pills i cured – chloroquine is no longer useful today .
even when i took them , the parasite ’ s many parts of the world have already had resistance to chloroquine .
now , chloroquine has basically disappeared from our medical lists .
the growing resistance to antibiotics and other antimicrobial drugs is becoming the biggest crisis in contemporary health care – a crisis that can not be solved by science alone .
other drugs are following chloroquine ’ s wake .
multi-drug-resistant strains of tuberculosis , e. coli , and salmonella are already commonplace .
superbugs like the 甲氧 aureus ( mrsa ) and 艰难 aureus ( mrsa ) and hard times are proliferating .
in india , antibiotic-resistant infections killed more than 58,000 newborns in 2013 .
today , malaria is often used by artemisinin ( a drug that china uses as a whole ) and other antimalarial drugs .
but these revolutionary drugs are most likely to go to the end of chloroquine ; resistant strains of malaria have been recorded in southeast asia .
this is not just a medical problem ; it is a potential economic disaster .
according to the economist jim o ’ neill , if current trends continue , drug-resistant infectious diseases will kill more than 100 million people in 2050 , costing the global economy $ 10 billion over the next 35 years .
even such a serious prediction could significantly underestimate the situation , because it includes the immediate loss of the lives and wellbeing of the disease .
cancer patients receiving chemotherapy are designed to suppress bacteria that would otherwise destroy their weakened immune systems .
many surgical units that are now viewed as routine means , including joint replacements and caesarean sections , can be implemented only if antibiotics are preventable .
the origins of drug resistance are well known .
if pathogens are exposed to the pressure of selective toxicity , they eventually adapt to this drug .
the wellcome trust , which i am managing , has invested hundreds of millions of dollars to study these mechanisms , improve diagnoses , and create new drugs .
to address the problem effectively , this effort must be extended beyond the realm of science , and entry into areas traditionally associated with medicine .
in rich and poor countries alike , we are systematically abused .
the key to countering resistance is to delay the pathogen ’ s adaptation .
but , given the failure to perform the necessary courses of antibiotics , we are making the bacteria just the same kind of 药量 that can encourage resistance .
as a result , we actually help germs in the form of drugs that we hope to fight against them .
that is because we have always seen antibiotics almost entirely as consumer goods – we ask physicians to give us a prescription , and take steps when we feel appropriate .
even the most knowledgeable patients do not make such excellent medicines .
the uk study found that even those who know how drug resistance can develop , and often use antibiotics or to give their medicines to family members , exacerbate the problem of resistance .
changing this disruptive behavior requires a better understanding of the social and cultural factors that underlie it .
disciplines like history , psychology , sociology , anthropology , economics , market research , and social marketing can help .
this is not just the case with antimicrobial resistance .
the same is true of outbreaks like ebola .
fighting the virus requires us to understand the biology of the virus , the infectious diseases that transmit them , and the drugs and vaccines that can be used to combat it .
but it also requires understanding the behavior that makes infectious diseases endemic in liberia , sierra leone , and guinea .
explaining why these societies are so vulnerable requires understanding the region ’ s recent history and understanding why people there are deeply distrustful of public authorities .
while patient segregation and infant security can contain the key to ebola , the implementation of the two measures will require cultural sensitivity – not just the scientific explanation behind them .
today ’ s great public-health threats have far-reaching economic consequences .
science provides powerful tools .
but we need more than science to use these tools effectively .
what is the battle against amr ?
london – to commemorate the second anniversary of the british government ’ s review on antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) , which i had had the right time to assess the group ’ s mandate , i was published with two other 成员 成员 , the group ’ s two other members .
in this book , we discussed the group ’ s ten original interventions – which i call the ten “ ten commandments ” – while considering what progress has been made , and what remains to be done .
the first part of the new book specifies that we understand bacteria and drug resistance , and point to evidence that drug resistance is now likely to be much faster than we might expect .
for example , colistin , who is widely viewed as the last available antibiotics after the failure of other data fails , is rapidly losing its 失效 , owing to excessive use of animals .
equally disturbing is the increasing frequency of drug-resistant strains of gonorrhea .
in assessing the report , we predict that if current trends are allowed to continue , there will be some 10 million deaths per year by 2050 , costing about $ 100 trillion worth of damage from the 2015 global economic output .
but there is now reason to fear that the situation may turn out to be worse .
to avoid this scenario , the second part of the book focuses on solutions , and together the assessment of many experts ’ opinions .
progress has been made on two of the three “ supply ” interventions recommended by our recommended interventions .
first , funding for early-stage research and development is increasing .
until recently , the 英中 and the wellcome trust , the wellcome trust , the united states ’ biomedical advanced research and development authority , and denmark ’ s pharmaceutical company have created new funding packages .
if such support is sustained , the assessment that the panel ’ s recommendations will increase $ 2 billion over the next five years is feasible .
second , the number of researchers focused on amr seems to be increasing .
indeed , i like to joke that in northern england , the research center for amr is now more likely than the city ’ s northern powerhouse , which is now likely to agree on devolution .
the progress made in these two regions has enabled me to make similar progress elsewhere .
but further progress will require less talk of government and industry leaders and more action .
this is especially true of the pharmaceutical industry – the target of the third supply-side intervention that we have proposed .
instead of focusing solely on short-term profits , the pharmaceutical industry must invest more in r & d and produce new treatments .
i know that representatives of the top 25 biggest pharmaceutical companies around the world met at the world economic forum ’ s annual meeting in davos this year to discuss amr and agree to the problem .
in other words , they agreed to do nothing .
the industry ’ s lofty rhetoric is becoming increasingly frustrating to any concrete action .
this 25 largest pharmaceutical companies could easily persuade major governments to evaluate the market ’ s recommendations for market-entry rewards .
as long as the $ 1 billion prize in new treatments for amr or a larger grant for amr can lead to more companies to start exploring .
this also suggests that governments need to act further .
in assessing the group ’ s efforts , the review on amr will finally be incorporated into the g20 ’ s agenda in hangzhou , china , in 2016 and last year ’ s summit in hamburg , germany .
this year ’ s g20 summit will be held in buenos aires in argentina , and we can only hope that world leaders will begin to fulfill their commitments in the last few years , especially to establish a market-entry prize .
two years ago , we had asked western countries to begin demanding quick fixes to all amr prescriptions by 2020 .
as a result , no government welcomed such ideas .
but unless health systems do better to implement effective diagnostic methods , we can not reduce unnecessary antibiotic use and ensure effective treatment for patients with real demand .
as a result , innovations in diagnostic methods should be incorporated into the 奖 .
some progress has been made to improve public awareness , improve sanitation , and improve regulation , and dramatically reduce the use of antibiotics in agriculture – but not enough .
the world bank , the world health organization , and the international monetary fund need to be exposed to countries that do not invest in their health-care systems .
the united nations needs to follow the targets outlined at the high-level meeting on amr in september 2016 .
this means taking steps to strengthen regulation and monitor compliance , and urge the un ’ s 193 member states to implement the “ same health ” national action plan agreed in 2015 .
in agriculture , some major western food producers and distributors have made it clear that the plan for amr is possible .
to that end , they should agree to start labeling their meat and fish products to make clear that antibiotics are used in the production process ; and they should refuse to purchase or sell for any products that use colistin .
defeating the amr threat is entirely possible .
but confronting the challenge requires us to turn words into action .
as long as the comfort zone is taken now , we can avoid worse conditions in the coming years .
the seed treaty at odds
stanford – in september , the united states ratified the international treaty on genetic resources for food and agriculture , which also called the international seed treaty .
like many international agreements under the auspices of the un , the agreement has serious problems .
in fact , the seed treaty can be said to be a political right , but not a failed treaty against technology .
to be sure , the treaty concluded in 2004 was intended to be laudable .
but it has turned into a 一堆 hope , and has translated into harsh legal constraints on the exchange of genetic resources ( mainly seed ) among countries .
the ctbt ’ s formal statement reflects the treaty ’ s unreal : “ the benefits of protecting and using genetic resources for all food and agriculture plants , and the benefits of the adoption of the convention on biodiversity and food security , and the long-term lasting durability of agriculture and food security . ”
in short , the guiding principle of the treaty is that genetic resources belong to the “ sovereign right ” of member states .
this would amount to a clear denial of the long-term explanation of the “ common heritage of human beings . ”
it violates the idea that some of the global resources deemed beneficial for all people should not be exploited and monopolized by individuals , states , businesses , or other entities , and past wisdom is that these resources should be managed in ways that benefit all people .
the seed treaty was driven by fear of “ biopiracy ” – the 偷盗 of the world ’ s genetic resources , which would then demand patents and exercise monopoly control .
but while charges of biopiracy may be in some of the mood for some , a fair analysis shows that such an approach does not exist .
in fact , biopiracy is rare – and thus can be addressed directly .
instead , the world has created a complex , bureaucratic , politicized system that imposes limits on scientific research , plant breeding , and intellectual property creation .
the seed treaty achieves this by establishing multilateral systems that restrict access to agricultural genetic resources .
the seed treaty ’ s signatories and secretariat also control 15 studies of the international agricultural research consultative group ( cgiar ) , which has global influence .
the same rules are not much helpful .
unfortunately , as the seed treaty , countries treated their country ’ s genetic resources with a dog to highlight the obstacles : even in their own scientists and plant breeding , most international genetic resources have been stagnant in the last twelve years .
the international consultation panel for international agriculture can continue to exchange the genetic resources , but it is now much more complicated and demanding than the seed treaty before the seed treaty entered into force .
the precise impact of the seed treaty on the us is difficult to estimate , especially because the treaty contains the 空泛 and vague wording of its meaning and rules .
what is clear is that the experience of the treaty is not particularly positive , unless they are highly tolerant of bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty goals .
the seed treaty is similar to the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , 的 convention on biodiversity .
it also mirrors the flagrantly unscientific and 遗传工程 cartagena protocol , the cbd .
moreover , it has much in common with a 样板 model of compensation and supplementary compensation for the cartagena protocol in cartagena , which , in addition to intimidating potential entrepreneurs from agricultural biotechnology , has little to do with the agricultural biotechnology techniques .
the agreement stipulates excessive , complex , and chaotic – in short , the innovation that can benefit the world ’ s poor .
the seed treaty violates science , agricultural development , and intellectual property .
this is the equivalent of a 一记 臭球 in policymaking .
the us senate , which ratified the seeds of the seed treaty , should reconsider the treaty ’ s article 32 .
since then , the us state department should inform the treaty ’ s secretariat , and would be formally withdrawn a year later .
donald trump , the author of the art of trading , has promised to americans that he would repeal unwise decisions .
the withdrawal of the seed treaty from the seed treaty would be a good choice .
defending jews again
madrid – despite the impression that mass solidarity in france has left the opposite impression , the recent attack on the satirical magazine charlie hebdo does not mean that free speech in western europe is facing any serious threat .
nor does it mean that islamic radicalism is about to engulf or transform western societies .
what is true about this incident is that the 不为人知 threat to europe ’ s jews is resurgent , and that discrimination and violence against european jews are resurgent .
charlie hebdo is the last vestige of the brutal and savage tradition of religious politics in france in the nineteenth century – an ideal symbol of freedom of expression to be seen as an ideal symbol of freedom of expression .
europeans rose to defend an important principle ; however vicious they are , they have a place in any democracy .
likewise , the “ eurabia ” prediction that the two children of the nile and the west is supposedly doomed to the doom doom of the islamic state has simply not materialized .
no islamist party is holding seats in the european parliament ; few prominent muslim figures have been playing a role in europe ’ s main cultural and political power centers ; almost no arabs and muslims enter the eu .
the radicals recruited to entice young european muslims do not reflect the unstoppable spread of islamists – even islamist influence in europe .
instead , it reflects the extremists ’ frenzied desire to influence europe , where most muslims are eager to integrate , not challenge , the existing order .
what is true of europe is the jewish community .
in 2006 , the french jewish 宜兰 宜兰 was kidnapped and brutally tortured three weeks , leading to the death of the last three weeks .
in 2012 , three jewish schoolchildren and a rabbi were gunned down in toulouse .
then , last april , a jewish couple was held captive in the suburbs of paris , owing to the attackers ’ belief that “ jews will have to be very rich ( ” but that did not explain why they then raped the woman ) .
a few months later , a mob assaulted a synagogue in paris .
the public outrage of these events has been far less popular in recent weeks .
assuming that the killing of four jewish jews in paris ( the culprit was the “ charlie hebdo ” terrorist attack ) occurred in other cases , we can conclude that it will not lead to mass movements that defend french values .
some argue that the palestinian dilemma is the main motivation for a significant increase in anti-semitism in europe .
but , in 2012 , the polls showed that more europeans believe that a long anti-semitism of anti-semitism is fueling violence against jews .
radical islam has been preaching hatred long before zionism , and it will not stop even after palestinian statehood .
given this , it is not surprising that islamic extremism has become increasingly assertive ( by attracting attention from young muslim young men in europe and elsewhere ) to violence against jews .
but the underlying problem can not be solved by the impression that the jews have no future in europe .
a recent yougov poll found that a large part of the french population is anti-semitic .
another survey conducted by the center for prejudice in warsaw university found that , in 2013 , roughly 63 % of poles believed jews were conspiring to control the banking system and the global media .
this problem has serious implications not only for jews , but also for europe .
as hannah arendt noted six decades ago , the rise of anti-semitism drives europe into authoritarianism .
as right-wing extremist and populist movements continue in many countries , europe ’ s political system and the values that they depend are under threat .
french prime minister manuel valls has recognized the danger .
in a recent speech by the national assembly to commemorate the attack on hatred of 120 years ago , valls asked : “ what can we accept in the streets of france ? ”
how to accept the killing of french anti-semitism by the killing of his jewish identity , and then warned of the revival of anti-semitism in france , for example , shows that democracy is in crisis .
but valls remains the only european politician who emphasizes the dangers of this danger .
other politicians now need to be 加快脚步 and should not rule out bold tactics aimed at influencing israel ’ s policies .
at the same time , a deep-seated problem for europe – and for islamic history – is to find solutions to the israeli-palestinian conflict or the exclusion of young muslims as a dangerous mistake .
if we want to avoid the clutches of fear , hatred , and appalling politics , europeans must take seriously their actions .
market monopolies and antitrust antitrust
london – this year ’ s world economic forum annual meeting in davos comes at a moment of confusion among the world ’ s economic and financial elites .
despite the global economy ’ s recent performance , voters are still rebelling against them .
despite some well-known challenges and weaknesses , the economic good news has proliferated in recent years .
since 2009 , with globalization and technological progress , global per capita gdp grew by 2.5 % per year – lower than before the great recession , but historically high levels .
over the last 35 years , the share of people living in poverty worldwide has dropped from 40 % to just 10 % .
perhaps the biggest grievance in the past year comes from inequality .
but , globally , inequality is falling .
and , while inequality has increased within some advanced economies , the increase is not particularly dramatic , and it remains reasonable .
according to the latest transition report by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) – a period based on the world bank and the ebrd ( which i am chief economist ) – people feel far more unequal than the realities outlined in formal data ( often based on household surveys ) .
in the 34 countries where households are surveyed , most of the respondents surveyed believe that inequality has increased in the last few years .
but official data show that the gini coefficient ( standard measure of inequality ) is only small , with inequality falling in most countries .
one might think that when data and feeling conflict , the data always have data .
but , in this case , it is the data that are wrong – or , more accurately , that we use the wrong data .
unlike ordinary citizens who see the homeless in the streets and the billionaire who are in the news , a household survey that is based on inequality indicators is not enough to cover the top and the bottom of the income distribution .
another data compiled by the french economist thomas piketty may provide a more accurate picture of today ’ s inequality : tax records .
these data suggest that income growth for the super-rich has lately far outpaced the rest of the population .
philippe 阿吉翁 , the harvard university de france and the college de france de france , and his co-authors have confirmed this finding , arguing that while inequality among the bottom 99 % of rich countries has not increased , the top 1 % are already in place .
as piketty and others point out , concentration of wealth at the top is likely to be dangerous .
if the political system is weak , wealthy tycoons can use money “ captured ” government officials to tilt economic regulation to them .
with the newly acquired comparative advantage , they can accumulate inappropriate profits and reinvest their ill-gotten assets into capturing more unfair rents .
the concentration of wealth will be difficult to control , and over time , smaller entrepreneurs will be crowded out .
of course , in a country where political systems are strong enough , even the super-rich can not distort the rules of the game .
in this context , those who can accumulate the most wealth are those most talented and lucky entrepreneurs who are rewarded for driving innovation and growth benefiting the entire economy .
unfortunately , in the ebrd ’ s 36 member countries , political systems are not strong enough .
this is reflected in the fact that commodities and natural resources comprise most billionaires in the ebrd countries , which suggests that resource rents are not just available , but also that they are not taxed adequately .
clearly , the unfair political influence of the super-rich is needed .
most directly , this means making political contributions more transparent , more intrusive , and effective .
but it also means removing the use of media to manipulate politics for themselves .
as zingales zingales pointed out in 2012 , oligarchs could use media ownership to consolidate their political status , using political status to ensure rents and use the rents to fund the media .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi , zingales argues , was a factor in this regard .
but many oligarchs in the former communist countries are doing the same thing .
some oligarchs would say that they have the media better than the government , at least they are competing with other oligarchs .
this is nonsense .
yes , media ownership is dangerous to make a kleptocratic or authoritarian government access to media .
but it is equally dangerous for oligarchs who can collude with one another to protect their collective interests – their interests may be very different from the rest of society .
the media are the cornerstone of modern democracy .
as a result , media ownership should be transparent , and , ideally , media owners should prohibit possession of other assets .
of course , such an antitrust policy would face significant political resistance .
and even if this policy is implemented , tycoons will continue to work on the media by , say , 定价 advertising contracts .
and , in some ways , some media may welcome oligarchic subsidies as a way to meet the challenges that traditional business models face .
addressing these issues requires a strong independent regulatory authority .
at the same time , transparent and politicized public subsidies can help support the social wealth of honest news media .
implementing an effective media antitrust framework will not be easy .
but this is still more difficult than ever to lose faith in democracy and open markets .
sudan ’ s imperfect peace
stanford – the united states has finally intervened .
president barack obama ’ s senator , john kerry , went to sudan to go to sudan , a major step in avoiding a bloody conflict between the country ’ s bloody conflict , and the two and 20 years of the north ’ s civil war , which now seems to have ended , now seems to have ended .
in recent months , obama has stepped up his own involvement in the country ’ s peace strategy for peace with senior officials .
as president , kerry has proposed a package of solutions aimed at breaking the deadlock between the north and south , pulling both sides back from dangerous brink .
we have written a memo outlining the indispensable elements of the peace negotiations in sudan .
if you are interested in the details of this potential peace deal – or to support it with action – it is to be www .
the situation is now looming .
the people living in southern sudan on january 9 , 2011 , will decide whether to secede from the north , move not only to three-quarters of the oil reserves , but also to millions of people who will face war .
on the other hand , the sudanese government in khartoum , khartoum in the capital , is now under the control of omar bashir , who not only planned command of the north-south civil war , but also has led to the detention of the darfur war , which has been condemned by war crimes and genocide .
yet renewed war in sudan is not inevitable .
if stakeholders are more deeply involved in negotiations , they can negotiate a complex but feasible peace proposal .
the current situation in which this is a realistic diplomatic maneuver – one that is not a taste for you , but a diplomatic approach to achieving it .
we believe that kerry is a highly sophisticated envoy , and the need for the parties to understand the compromises is clear .
any agreement to avoid war would necessarily involve the national congress of the north and the sudan people ’ s liberation movement , representing the north .
moreover , the us should be involved , because it will be essential to the agreement with the north and south over the agreement after the referendum .
we believe that for the sake of lasting peace in the north , the parties must do the same :
· the referendum on the southern sudan took time and fully respect and enforce the outcome of the referendum .
· agreement on the territorial territory of the main border area , a major disputed border area .
· developing a long-term profit divided into an agreement to ensure that oil gains from oil and other major border areas are equal in the north-south , and that small segments of the income distribution will be used to promote local development in 阿拉伯 regions .
· about 80 % of the disputed border can be drawn directly , and the remaining 20 % is left to international arbitration .
· to provide serious and effective protection to minorities , and recognition of the dual citizenship of a particular group , when a southerners were hit or otherwise attacked by the north , and the international community is on the defensive .
in exchange for the peace process in the south and darfur peace process , the us will pursue a clear , binding , and binding approach to normalizing relations .
these include , for example , the instructions – in order to keep sudan from supporting the country ’ s national list of terrorism , and ambassadors , ambassadors , and acquisitions of unilateral sanctions and multilateral and multilateral debts are combined .
on the contrary , the us must step in to lead the international powers to punish it , to try to bring sudan back into war .
peace and security in darfur should be a sign of normalizing relations with sudan .
in a new round of negotiations , the obama administration is committed to this stance , and appointed a senior official to coordinate his policy toward darfur , ensuring that peace processes are equal to the peace process between the two koreas .
and what is most urgently needed is political resolve ( not just in the us ) .
the eu and its neighbors in sudan – especially egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to be active .
given china ’ s massive investment in sudan to develop local oil resources , its diplomatic position will be a litmus test , testing whether the country really wants a responsible stakeholder in africa and worldwide .
ensuring that the government is trying to achieve peace is the stuff in which you enter .
putting pressure on the government to support the peace process will prevent a war .
without guns , there is no money .
the road to peace in sudan is rocky , but it is bright .
many difficult choices must be made .
and we can choose whether we are right now , or to tell ourselves that peace is messy , and that , in the meantime , apathy is left to millions of innocent men and children .
and all of this depends on how we choose .
a partnership for peace in the hindu kush
northwest pakistan ’ s frontier province – pakistan ’ s president pervez musharraf and afghan president hamid karzai never fully shared a border strategy .
but , when you stand in the sand to 米奇尼 米奇尼 at the peak , the 答案 of the shadow in the 山脉 river in the hindu kush , the answer was obvious : control of the afghanistan-pakistan border would be obvious : control of the afghanistan-pakistan border requires a policy that focuses on afghanistan and pakistan .
pakistan ’ s new government is very promising to make such changes .
in order to cut off the taliban and al-qaeda ’ s recruitment and supplies , two countries should work together to combat militants .
this means , first and foremost , the security protection of the border force , starting with pakistan ’ s 50,000 afghan combat forces in afghanistan , which began its border in afghanistan .
these “ sons of the soil ” are poor .
they patrol the income of a 沙漠 desert area to barren deserts in the mountains of 000 .
they also fight with old weapons .
as one senior commander told me , “ the taliban are better equipped and more 火力 . ”
they have no air force , worse , and , worse , to support them .
the border corps of 拉哈 fort in south waziristan has been attacked in the last few months .
security along the border can be conducted along parallel tracks .
监察 阿兰 , the military commander of the border army , has suggested that , “ we take our border troops away from them , and then take them back . ”
through nato ’ s international security assistance units ( isaf ) afghan national army training program , afghanistan should be able to bring together border forces and their pashtun brothers simultaneously .
the additional assistance provided by pakistan ’ s proper training for equipment and army – including the establishment of a frontier corps rapid response force – should ensure that , in pakistan ’ s border corps , soldiers could become an 伙伴 and disruptive partner .
second , reconciliation with the insurgents should begin by inducing defections .
a senior us military commander recommended that , “ 60 % of the insurgency can be carried out by reconciliation . ”
despite overwhelming support for this process , there is no way to do it .
in afghanistan ’ s helmand province , 2,000 taliban fighters were surrounded and accepted by international security assistance units , and they were advised to give up without support from the afghan central government .
in 霍斯特 , many of the taliban members from the tribal areas were committed to the unconditional surrender of their weapons .
in both cases , the defecting insurgents said that the same thing happened : they could recruit more people ; they need simply to induce them .
pakistan and afghanistan should develop and enforce a regional settlement that is targeting the taliban and al-qaeda commanders .
third , drug lords should be arrested and detained .
as one afghan government official said , “ if you can ’ t eliminate a corrupt judge , how can you deal with the taliban ?
there are a hundred top drug lords in afghanistan .
everyone knows who they are , but none has been arrested .
fear of doing so without doing so would only strengthen their power .
and allowing them to continue to control the smuggling routes led to a chain reaction to corruption in provincial officials and the afghan state police , which in turn nurtured insurgency .
finally , the education system is reforming .
not all madrassas are fertile ground for terrorist training .
but the problem is that , after 19 or 20 years old , afghanistan ’ s religious students must go to pakistan .
then they were quickly pressured to become “ bad taliban ” through money , propaganda , and pressure from pakistani mullahs .
in order to address this problem , afghan education minister 哈尼夫 阿特 is likely to be the most reform-minded member of the government – a goal that is being used to build up to 34 % of the country ’ s madrassas ( whose goal is 2,000 ) .
its advice on curricula to reform course , including islamic studies , gender studies , computer science , and english , should be won .
with the reduction of pakistan ’ s students from afghanistan , pakistan could concentrate its attention on its own madrassas and the mullahs who convert students into suicide bombers .
two countries ’ curriculum , according to minister atmar ’ s proposal , should be coordinated .
madrassas that meet these curriculum standards should be registered , supported , and encouraged .
only an effective 伙伴关系 partnership can begin to control the insurgency in the border areas .
without this , the war in afghanistan and instability in pakistan will not end .
a path through europe ’ s minefield
london – earlier this week , nearly 100 european celebrities sent a letter to the leaders of all 17 member states in the eurozone .
the letter directly expressed the point of saying that europe ’ s leaders seem to have known what they know : no longer the use of “ 拖字 . ”
indeed , europe ’ s banking problems and sovereign-debt problems are mutually reinforcing .
the fall in the price of government bonds exposes the banks ’ capital shortfalls , while the government ’ s prospect of financing bank recapitalization has boosted the risk premium on government bonds .
now that the price of bank shares is less than book value , raising new capital will give banks a means to reduce their balance sheets by cutting credit lines and reducing their loan portfolios .
europe ’ s leaders are considering the response , and their next step will determine europe ’ s fate – or let the market resume calm or push markets toward new extremes .
everyone agrees that greece needs an orderly restructuring , because a disorderly default could derail the eurozone .
but , when things are involved , i suspect that eurozone leaders are considering implementing some inappropriate measures .
specifically , they are talking about recapitalizing the banking system , rather than guaranteeing the banks .
moreover , they are prepared to do so at the national level , not at the eurozone level .
this is understandable : germans are reluctant to pay for the recapitalization of french banks .
but , with german chancellor angela merkel ’ s inherent rationale for insisting on it , it is inevitable .
let me explain how to do so in a 密集 minefield .
the banking system needs to be guaranteed first , and then recapitalized .
governments can not afford to recapitalize the costs now , providing insufficient funding to address sovereign-debt problems .
it is far less costly to recapitalize banks after the crisis , government bonds , and bank shares returned to normal levels .
but the government has the power to tax it , so it can provide credible guarantees .
the eurozone needs a new , legally binding agreement – not attempting to change the treaty of lisbon , which is too many – to mobilize this power , and the new treaty ’ s consultation and approval will take time .
but , during this period , governments could demand that the ecb act – the european central bank ’ s share of the total guaranteed by eurozone members .
in exchange for guarantees , the eurozone ’ s major banks must agree to accept the ecb ’ s guidance .
this demand is radical , but it is now in the context of the environment .
the ecb has embraced member states ’ mandates , with enough persuasive advice : it can shut down the discounted window for banks , and governments can sanction financial institutions that refuse cooperation .
then there is the ecb ’ s request for banks to maintain credit lines and loan portfolios , while strictly monitoring the risk of bank accounts .
this would eliminate one of the two main drivers of current market turmoil .
the european central bank will also be able to deal with another dynamic : the lack of financing for sovereign debt is to reduce the discount rate , encourage distressed governments to issue debt , and encourage banks to bank subscriptions .
these bonds can sell to the ecb at any time , in exchange for cash ; but , as long as their yields exceed the ecb ’ s deposits , banks hold a profit .
during the emergency , governments can borrow at very low cost at very low cost , and the ecb would not violate article 123 of the treaty of lisbon .
such measures would be enough to calm markets and pull the crisis out of emergency .
recapitalization of the bank will not wait until then ; only greece ’ s debt restructuring will need to be filled quickly .
according to germany ’ s request , the additional capital comes from the market , and then from national governments , and the financial stability facility in europe will be in the last , so it will not be wasted .
the new eurozone agreement , negotiated in a calmer fashion , can not only act in an emergency period , but also a foundation for economic growth .
a peace agenda for global development
monrovia – this week , the 27 members of the high-level panel on the post-2015 development agenda will gather in monrovia , liberia , for un secretary-general ban ki-moon .
at the meeting , the panel will establish a vision of a “ bold and realistic ” vision of joint development .
the discussion was shaped by liberian president ellen johnson , indonesian president susilo bambang yudhoyono , and british prime minister david cameron , where the sahel and the great lakes region were still plagued by violence and conflict .
indeed , mass displacement and deep human suffering are occurring in many african countries ( not to mention syria and elsewhere ) , threatening the continent ’ s unprecedented economic progress over the past decade .
the group ( as one of my members ) must seize the opportunity of the monrovia meeting to show a global development agenda that addresses the vicious cycle of conflict and poverty that undermines economic activity and undermines human wellbeing .
for more than a decade , the un millennium development goals ( which expire in two years ) provide the framework for international development cooperation , focusing on combating poverty worldwide .
in developing new comprehensive catch-up agendas , global leaders must recognize that the millennium development goals have left millions of people out of illiteracy , disease , and hunger , and the impact of the millennium development goals has not yet been shown , particularly in countries divided by fragmented and conservative conflicts .
the world bank data show that no conflict has reached a single millennium development goal , suggesting that this arrangement can not be addressed effectively by the problems that organized violence and lack of security .
that is why the post-2015 agenda must be centered on a fear of peace , security , and freedom from fear .
it should aim to bring justice and prosperity to every point .
it should reflect a belief that without peace , without development , without peace , peace and sustainable development can not be sustained without respect for human rights and the rule of law .
moreover , the monrovia meeting ’ s theme , “ the national building base , ” notes that the post-2015 global development project should emphasize support for national measures , in order to achieve strong , stable , and long-term prosperity .
strategies that help countries to overcome domestic insecurity and conflict , achieve economic transformation , and full development of their potential include strengthening governance systems and the rule of law , ensuring participation , and ensuring that all citizens can equal equal access to justice .
international support for this effort means giving african leaders and stakeholders the opportunity to beat behind , stimulate prosperity , and create responsibilities .
moreover , while eliminating poverty is still one of the point after 2015 , the focus must shift from national averages to local disparities .
measures must go beyond overall social needs to spur progress in productive employment creation and income formation .
conflict-affected countries must work hard to promote reconciliation and prevent violence .
in recent years , liberia has made success in post-conflict reconstruction and human development ( the country ’ s previous civil war ) , so it is a fitting setting for the development agenda .
since 2003 , domestic vision and commitment have been accompanied by international support , enabling liberia to hold democratic elections , rebuild basic public services , reestablish public finances , and make progress in addressing local corruption , rebuilding public institutions , and reviving national infrastructure .
the panel should use liberia to ensure sustained efforts to secure peace , maintain stability , and guide economic and social transformation as a blueprint for successful post-conflict transformation .
other inspiring models are rwanda , mozambique , and sierra leone .
the panel will work to create a bold , clear , and feasible agenda for sustainable development .
the process will be open , inclusive , transparent , and consider the views and experiences of experts and stakeholders representing young people , women , the elderly , the disabled , and the authorities .
the group will also take advantage of comprehensive online and offline efforts to interact with the people of the world , take insights into what they see as the future of their eyes .
their view will broaden the group ’ s vision , helping to develop an agenda that addresses the priorities they perceive .
in a world of conservative conflict , development efforts are inadequate .
the post-2015 global development agenda must take a comprehensive perspective with the elimination of efforts to eradicate poverty , together with the economic transformation that helps to build peace .
that way , global leaders will begin to lay the foundations for prosperity , justice , and sustainable development worldwide .
the asian paradox
seoul – as the asia-pacific economic cooperation forum comprises 54 % of global gdp and 44 % of world trade , the agenda for this month ’ s apec summit will cause global attention .
but the only question that everyone has asked is whether chinese president xi jinping and japanese prime minister shinzo abe will meet on the sidelines of the sidelines , with a substantive discussion that will ease bilateral tensions if they meet .
this is not entirely unreasonable , of course , because both countries are critical to shaping the future of east asia .
indeed , the uncertainty about whether two key leaders of apec will be communicated underscores the grim reality of asia ’ s international relations today .
the so-called “ asian century ” is plagued by a paradox : deep economic interdependence can not alleviate strategic mistrust .
recently , sino-japanese relations have deteriorated – a trend that has intensified since japan ’ s purchases of the senkaku islands ( diaoyu from the diaoyu islands ) in japan to prevent japanese nationalists from controlling the islands .
a meeting between abe and xi – for the first time since taking office – will give greater hope .
the japanese government has made a significant diplomatic effort to arrange a meeting , and former prime minister yasuo fukuda visited beijing in july to ease tensions .
according to some media reports , to ensure that china agreed to participate in a meeting at the apec summit , abe would even be willing to acknowledge japan ’ s claim to the senkaku islands .
such a move would mean that china ’ s claim to the senkaku islands may have some legitimacy , so it is not irrelevant ; it may even mean that abe would agree to restore the state of the past .
if that is true , one hopes that xi will follow deng xiaoping ’ s counsel , putting the issue “ stranded for some time , ” allowing the “ smarter ” generation to “ find ways to find acceptable solutions . ”
today , it looks like a realistic possibility .
indeed , xi ’ s recent rhetoric has softened , and the diplomatic line may be so .
for example , he allowed li 小林 , the daughter of china ’ s former president , to meet with abe to meet abe , who watched china ’ s performance in tokyo .
chinese state council premier li keqiang shook hands with abe on his recent milan meeting .
abe and xi ’ s recent display of flexibility , which may reflect changes in both countries ’ domestic politics , have created a more equal balance between conservatives , nationalist groups , and more internationally oriented commercial interests .
two leaders have been overcoming their domestic opponents and consolidating power over the last two years , and now they may have gained confidence in a compromise .
in japan , abe ’ s cabinet has satisfied conservative supporters by agreeing to expand the right to self-defense .
although there are still many objections to its new security doctrine , there is no influential political bloc capable of challenging abe ’ s approach .
now , with japan ’ s economic recovery stalled , japanese business has begun to pressure abe ’ s government to try harder to mitigate the deterioration of relations with china .
china ’ s government reports that in the first half of 2014 , japan ’ s direct investment in china fell by nearly 50 % a year in the first half of 2014 – a clear indication that japanese business leaders are worried about the future of japan ’ s second-largest market .
at the same time , in china , xi has gained considerable confidence through his massive anti-corruption campaign , with penalties for top officers indicating that he has mastered control of the pla .
as a result , xi may think that there is now more room for dealing with china ’ s economic slowdown , including by mitigating the damage caused by antagonizing japan .
if this analysis is correct , it is clear whether the next question is whether abe and xi will move toward better progress , pleasing the business community without losing support for their nationalists .
for abe , his choice is whether to cool down nationalist rhetoric and moderate his position on contentious historical issues .
this would include stopping the need to travel to the controversial yasukuni shrine , the “ comfort women ” of south korea ’ s “ comfort women , ” which gave up sexual services to the country ’ s forced service of the japanese army .
how abe will decide may depend on his confidence in his political position .
similarly , if xi had enough confidence in his control of the pla and truly china ’ s official “ peace development ” policies , he could take the prudent approach that deng advocated .
observers will view him as a real strategic change , not just ad hoc tactical adjustments .
in this uncertain environment , the apec summit will provide a much-needed insight into the intentions of xi and xi , thereby casting a glimpse of the key clues about the future direction of sino-japanese relations .
the economics of ordinary people
new haven – we are in the midst of a rising tide of popular economics : books about economics , articles , blogs , and speech are greeted with popular excitement .
i recently participated in a panel panel on this phenomenon in the united states ’ economic association .
the group ’ s members recognize this kind of contradiction : the rise of popular economics is precisely what is at odds with people ’ s distrust of professional economists , because most economists fail to foresee ( or even alert ) the greatest economic crisis since the great depression .
so why are the masses buying books written by professional economists ?
the most interesting explanation i heard is that economics is more interesting because it seems no longer a perfect and closed discipline .
if one book tells you that economic forecasts would be best left to computer models , and as a common reader , you have to have a ph.d. to hide the models , just how tedious it is .
the fact is that the public is right : while these models are more or less consistent with scientific science , they have been spectacularly wrong .
sometimes , we would be wise to close our 导航仪 instructions and think for ourselves , especially when it comes to the personal intelligence of the crisis .
in the first half of the spectrum , the agreement was agreed : popular economics has become a medium of communication with the general public – a kind of communication that reflects unprecedented significance .
after all , most economists failed to foresee the crisis because they have completely escaped the idea and actions of people in the real world .
successful popular economics will view readers or listeners as a participant .
obviously , this means that economists must be willing to embrace original theories that are not yet recognized by academics .
until recently , many professional economists were reluctant to write a book .
after all , it is certainly not a sound basis for buying chairs or promotion .
estimates of the panel ’ s people would argue that , because it does not include any equations or 统计图表 , it can not be a careful work .
making matters worse , it was not until recently that a committee of responsible economists even thought that writing an economics book with a classic theory is immoral in professional economics .
and , of course , if you were a medical professional expert , how do you think of those who would be given a 权威部门 treatment to the masses ?
countless seemingly promising new therapies have proven ineffective or even harmful in research and development .
there is a rigorous and rigorous academic assessment mechanism for new treatments , and peer journals with high levels of professional journals .
any attempt to bypass the process to extend untested new ideas to the public is a violation of ethics .
in the decades before the crisis erupted , economists used these criteria to look at themselves and their profession , and research trends have contributed to this .
for example , when the university of chicago was invented a common computer tape that can accommodate the price of millions of shares in the 1960 ’ s , a large number of scientific research was used to validate “ efficient markets hypothesis . ”
the competitive forces that scientists find in exchange exchanges seem to force all stock prices to converge toward their true value .
as a result , any deal based on the hypothesis was regarded as either foolish or outright frauds .
science has triumphed over stock-market theory – at least for it .
but the ensuing financial crisis struck a resounding blow to overly confident scientific economists .
one explanation for this is that the economics profession has not fully understood the economic content of the economy – one that is not reducible to mathematical analysis .
and that is a small group of economists who have been warning about the current crisis : not just the literature , but also the personal judgment : gut the current situation with some historical scenarios ; and the moral objective of speculative transactions , price bubbles , and market confidence ;
these judgments come from economists who know the business community – those whose machinations , beliefs , gamesmanship , and rationalizations – are well known .
these scholars ’ views can never be published on scholarly journals or are treated like a new medical treatment .
there is no existing scientific procedure to justify these views .
of course , economics is indeed a science in many ways , and the contributions of these scholars and their computer programs are not extinguished .
but , as the economist edwin R put it in 1903 : “ economics is a social science , in other words it focuses on ethics , in other words , the science of ethics , which has different economic ethics , as well as the science of science . ”
for me , and for the rest of my term , the search for economic uncertainty is a public dialogue with the public , and that they learn from them , learn from them , and ask : are i most likely to believe that the theory is really near reality ?
a 复苏 recovery ?
new york – the united states is more than a year old .
one view is that the crisis was a 型 – a period of relatively short time , and is probably only eight months old .
as the two crises that occurred in 1991 and 2001 , the world economy will not suffer from the us recession .
another view , of course , is that , of course , my view is that financial leverage in the private sector , such as the household , financial institutions , and companies , could be a regressive – a recipe for continuing and deep time .
the second phase of the time is 24 months of the world ’ s recession .
now that 20 months after the crisis in the united states , the global economy has become far too far off , with a 型 view that the worst of the us , and the world , has been the worst economic crisis for the last 60 years .
if the us crisis ( which is likely to be in place ) end at the end of the year , the current crisis is about three times more protracted than the previous two , with five times more likely to be calculated in terms of recession output .
the consensus now seems to be that the recession is over .
the us , and even the global economy , will soon recover , without recurring .
unfortunately , this consensus is also the wrong thing , as it has been in the past three years .
the data that the us has now published – including rising unemployment , declining consumer consumption , production of industrial goods , and still weak housing – suggest that the us recession is not yet over .
one reason for this is that households need to deleverage , increasing their savings , which will affect consumption and thus drag down the economy .
the second is that the financial system – which includes banks and other financial institutions – is nearly destroyed .
without active credit support , private consumption and investment in the private sector are 无本 sources .
third , corporate products , which are weak and economic weakness has reduced profits , are still under threat .
investing in nature will not be good .
fourth , the government ’ s recovery , at the expense of fiscal deficits and debt , is a permanent boon .
by early next year , there will be no shortage of domestic demand to support sustained growth .
private households , especially in terms of consumption , have continued to decline in countries with a transitional overdraft ( and , in the united kingdom , spain , ireland , australia , new zealand , etc . ) , the pace of growth has not been expected to offset the impact of declining exports .
global depression , together with overcapacity , has impeded economic recovery .
first , the government continues to increase the problem of fiscal and financial investment , regardless of doing it , regardless of what is done .
cutting spending by cutting taxes , reducing spending , eliminating excessive credit , and reducing excessive credit would make it worse .
if the government continues to invest more , the fiscal deficit will rise .
inflation will become inevitable , with long-term government bond rates rising and recovery will be impossible .
the second problem is that the price of oil , energy , and food will continue to rise , driven by the twin combination of money flows to fixed capital and speculation .
oil prices of $ 145 per barrel have hit the world economy considerably , especially for the us , europe , japan , china , india , and other oil-importing countries .
for today ’ s very fragile economy , it would be a mistake to make a blow if the speculative price is causing oil to reach $ 100 a barrel .
in that sense , the global depression is not yet over , and it is expected to rise by the end of the year .
so far , the recovery in the stock market , commodity markets , and credit markets may be better than the real economy .
if so , the global economy is too far behind .
a pivot to the people
princeton – the united nations security council convened on february 1 to review the arab league ’ s proposal to stop the violence in syria .
the us delegates were secretary of state hillary clinton .
when speaking to half , she eschewed the syrian ambassador of the scene , even the syrian government , who began directly to the syrian people .
she said that the change in syria requires syrians of all faiths and ethnicities to work together to preserve and respect minorities ’ rights .
when it comes to minorities , she continues to argue : “ we hear your fear and experience , much more respect for your ideals . ”
don ’ t allow the regime to extend the crisis .
clinton also reminds the syrian business community , the army , and other players in other areas that their future depends on the country , not a regime .
“ syria belongs to its 23 million people , not a leader and its family . ”
people who are directly speaking to a country – not only with the country ’ s government , but also with their citizens – are not just a means of debate .
when many diplomatic studies are focused on america ’ s “ asian pivot , ” clinton has also launched a new , but less important , strategy to expose a “ pivot to the people . ”
in implementing traditional government diplomacy , she introduced policies that encourage the government and the social community , programs , and institutional reforms .
these initiatives have not been reported relentlessly by media coverage , but will gradually shift many us foreign policy .
in january , the us state department created a new “ 办公室 ” of civilian security , democracy , and human rights , led by secretary of state william otero .
the office ’ s full integration of responsibility for international law , counter-terrorism , and reconstruction and reconstruction with other institutions to promote democracy , human rights , and humanitarian assistance is all the more common .
otero explains the idea behind this office as “ protecting each individual . ”
this , in turn , means that “ not only the interactions between countries ” ( interactions with countries ) , but also those of “ our traditional diplomatic channels . ”
from this perspective , terrorism must include a strategic communications campaign that refutes terrorist propaganda .
the counter-narcotics gang has worked with 墨西 , the telecommunications tycoon carlos slim , to develop communication tools that enable ordinary citizens to report violent messages , and to police the police ’ s target .
in understanding the basis of different countries , the “ axis of people ” means not just dealing with the supreme council of egypt ’ s armed forces , but also by civil bloggers ; and , in the case of tunisia , algeria , and morocco , 利用 the country ’ s 政府 and 指导 .
at the same time , alongside brazil at the official level , together with brazil ’ s joint government partnership , governments committed to increased transparency , accountability , and civic participation are taking advantage of mutual peer pressure and public reporting of their promises to induce them to fulfill their promises .
these integrated conditions provide a different strategic perspective .
clinton has created a new set of jobs to encourage communication with different social groups .
for example , while ambassador to global women , special adviser for global youth affairs , civil society , and a senior foreign minister of democracy , special representative for the muslim community , special representative of the muslim community , and business and business affairs , their respective strategies and programs often reflect a very different one .
as a result , clinton has launched a substantive strategic dialogue with civil society .
for example , ambassador 梅兰 华 , a global ambassador to women , has attended more than 1,000 discussions on women ’ s empowerment from peace negotiations to women .
likewise , she launched programs such as “ mWomen ( mobile women ) , ” working to expand and support mobile technologies , enabling women to increase their independence and personal security , and to use mobile phones to understand health and other useful knowledge .
the office of the global youth issue has created a local youth council that is responsible for providing advice and helping embassies implement policies aimed at local youth .
much of the program focused on the planning of young people , women , entrepreneurs , foreign jews , technologists , and other social groups .
indeed , the obama administration ’ s national security strategy mentions “ public-private partnerships ” more than 30 times .
clinton created the global partnership for the initiative to create coalitions and partnerships with companies , foundations , ngos , universities , and other civic organizations .
of course , the “ axis of people ” will not exclude americans : the dynamism and dynamism of american business and non-profit organizations , and creativity and resources across the world .
a private fund funded by the state department , which would transport 300 million cubic meters to japan this spring and grow in the geographical and tokyo affected areas , will send us teachers to the japanese people and to encourage american teachers .
after the “ friends of syria ” meeting in tunisia , clinton negotiated a town hall with tunisian youth .
she argued in a public speech that “ young people are central to today ’ s grand strategic opportunities and challenges , ” and that she added : “ the empowerment of women in the international agenda for the young , ” she added , “ is time to empower young people . ”
all of these actions , as clinton put it , are deeply profound .
today , us diplomatic relations with other countries will involve direct engagement with others and connect them with the us as much as possible .
from the perspective of american diplomats , each country ’ s people have the same status as their government .
this assumption is the essence of democracy ; it is a revolution in diplomacy .
a planet for all apes
melbourne – two films gathered this month – a red science blockbuster , and a documentary – are involved in apes ’ recent primate animals , and , with a role in play , demonstrated that we are in the face of a 戏剧 and 教训 .
the rise of the earth ’ s “ the planet , the planet ’ s rise to the planet , ” directed into the planet ’ s “ planet of the planet , ” is tailored to a 的 film , a 世界 film that describes it as a “ 主角 , ” and described it as a “ 主角 . ”
but there was no real apes to participate .
by contrast , the “ 阿凡 ” developed by the “ avatar of avatar ” enables a human actor like 瑟金斯 瑟金斯 to become a great ape , with a “ caesar ” that can play a role in the “ caesar ” of apes , and to act as a “ of the apes .
when i spoke last month and 怀亚特 , he admitted that he did not use real apes .
but he also understood the ethical issue .
“ something is going to be done , ” he told me , “ if you want great apes to do your mind , you will have to dominate them ; you must manipulate them and be manipulating them . ”
“ we ’ re not . ”
威尔 franco , the most important human actor , is a scientist who seeks a cure for alzheimer ’ s to find a cure for alzheimer ’ s .
many films have long preached such scientists , and believe that the use of animals is for granted .
the rise of the earth ’ s “ the planet ” is , in franco ’ s words , an “ indifference , isolated people . ”
only when the superiors cancel the experiments , will the scientist ’ s musical “ caesar ” begin to care about the idea of care .
the ensuing plot , which grew up to be able to live up to human home , will be delivered to a human home , a 实为 of the animals that have been abused by animals .
in the sense of a great apes , much of the film is derived from reality , just as the “ nim plan ” was based on the 著作 of the 尼姆 ape : one might be a symbol of a chimpanzee ’ s chimpanzee .
the chimpanzee , known in 1973 , was born in a primate animal sanctuary in oklahoma , where he was born from its mother in a 天 experiment in a 天 experiment .
in a human family , he learned to use the advice of 100 friends from the us .
but then it was handed over from the first human family to other 导师 teachers who did not .
as a result , it has grown stronger and more aggressive , and even began to attack its mentor .
herbert terrace , the columbia university psychologist at the time , decided to end the project and send him back to oklahoma .
there , the chimpanzee , who is being raised only in humans , was being made in a cage when it comes to the human and ape images of humans and apes .
and it shows how to go to the passing people with “ i ’ m out ” to see the situation .
he suffered from other bad conditions – even in medical experiments – before he was released to a sanctuary at the heart of a animal sanctuary , which ended up in 2000 .
in 1993 , 帕 卡瓦利 and i joined a group of “ great apes , ” working to make people aware of the existence of great apes in nature , and that the moral status of a 能力 , as well as the moral status of such a fundamental nature , should be a moral place to be reckoned with .
at least at the very least , these apes should be living with survival , autonomy , and rights from torture , regardless of their intelligence .
in these years , the idea has made great strides .
since 2010 , the eu banned great apes from using great apes .
such experiments are in new zealand , and australia , australia , and japan have been banned or severely regulated .
in the united states , a bipartisan congressman is pushing legislation to prohibit the use of chimpanzees in any 介入性 experiment .
a parliamentary resolution in 2008 led to a parliamentary resolution that urged the government to impose basic rights on some ( human ) rights , but the government has failed to implement it .
or the release of these two different films will further drive great apes into the biological range of biological and legal rights .
that way , the recent life of the family ’ s relatives can help close our own moral gap with other animals .
a portfolio approach to climate change
the world ’ s efforts to reduce carbon emissions under the kyoto protocol have been minimal .
a huge effort to put the protocol on the kyoto treaty shows how much work will be needed to reach the next agreement that would be adopted in december 2009 .
environmental organizations call for tougher and far-reaching policies , but some countries will resist such policies in order to ensure their own economic dynamism .
a new round of negotiations would have an advantage over previous efforts , because governments now recognize the need for a portfolio in adaptation , mitigation , and research .
a new study conducted by my colleagues and i at the center for denmark ’ s copenhagen consensus has explored the effectiveness of a different response to the global challenge , but for several reasons .
we also know that the effects of climate change are not evenly performing in the world .
in some places , if changes in precipitation patterns are not negative and irrigation remains available , a slightly warmer temperature can lead to higher food production .
even if temperatures rise above 0.6 , many crops in africa and south asia are almost immediately cut , and will eventually be more vulnerable to epidemics .
these effects are clearly the biggest impact of the poorest people on the planet , despite the burden of disease , poverty , war on war , and malnutrition .
ensuring that adaptive capacity is broadened and developed is thus an important challenge for us to become .
long-term development will enhance the ability of countries to mitigate climate change for environmental and civic health , but the poorest people on the planet urgently need the help of rich populations .
our analysis has explored the benefits of a more targeted policy in the short run : for example , the bed nets for children who suffer the most from climate change , and the provision of oral cancer therapy , in order to tackle some of the marginal health effects of global warming , in order to tackle some of the fringe health effects of global warming .
such jobs will almost immediately produce benefits , but as the economy grows slowly .
even if the economy ’ s terms are improved , it is becoming increasingly important to reduce carbon emissions from the long term as climate change has become more severe .
given that the effects of climate change are observed in many parts of the world , how to reduce climate change makes sense everywhere .
but we found that the impact of mitigation alone on mitigating climate change does not meet costs .
we assumed that the annual cost of climate policy has kept pace with global gdp by 2100 , starting with annual costs of $ 18 billion .
the discounted costs incurred by fixed annual costs amounted to $ 800 billion , but the damage avoided by this approach is only $ 685 billion .
copenhagen consensus has also tested a portfolio chosen by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change .
we assume that research on greener technologies is $ 50 billion , and the economic costs of adapting and adapting to climate change are $ 750 billion .
reducing the cost of carbon emissions and carbon emissions has been reduced , and the tax on carbon cuts will become more effective .
as a result , research and development programs , combined with the total discounted benefits of $ 800 billion , are expected to exceed $ 2.1 trillion .
ensuring that research and development become part of the world ’ s portfolio response to climate change will make efforts to mitigate climate change more effective , and will strengthen the impact of its efforts to reduce carbon emissions significantly in the next century .
but these favorable net benefits reflect a very conservative estimate of emissions reduction and the very conservative predictions that developed countries are “ actively acting . ”
for a long time , investing in 优化组合 could raise the discounted benefits more than one-third .
if we make the potential for climate change more sensitive to climate change , we are expected to generate higher interest rates , even though it would have to be assumed that the benefits of climate change will be higher .
fighting climate change is a useful investment , though neither mitigation nor adaptation is sufficient to “ solve ” this conundrum .
to bring about change , especially in the near term , the world is working to reduce and adapt to climate change , while increasing research and development efforts to reduce carbon emissions and carbon sequestration , which in turn requires designing and exploring market-based incentives .
a post-nuclear euro-atlantic security order
washington , dc – as 2011 begins , the euro-atlantic region has become a strategic strategy for research .
over the past 20 years , the geopolitical dimension of the atlantic from the atlantic to the urals has changed .
we have seen this in the darkest days of our lifetime before the cold war ’ s darkest days , and the threat of a devastating and nuclear war in europe during the cold war ’ s era of devastating and nuclear war has been removed .
but , while things turn out to be good , two regional powers , such as the us and russia , still cling to thousands of nuclear weapons , accounting for more than 90 % of nuclear weapons worldwide .
many of these weapons remain designed or deployed in the euro-atlantic region .
a massive strategic nuclear force that is highly vulnerable to the high alert and the deployment of tactical nuclear weapons in some parts of nato and russia created the possibility of accidental , unauthorized , or mistaken launch of nuclear weapons .
so security vigilance is a top priority .
in response to this challenge , the three of us agreed on the plan for action , adopted in 2010 without treaty review conferences , and set a series of urgent but practical steps toward long-term implementation .
this includes :
· prolonging the time and timing of the launch of the nuclear ballistic-missile launch ;
· create missile defense and early-warning systems ;
· ensuring the highest safety standards for nuclear weapons and materials ;
· launch a dialogue on tactical nuclear weapons in russia , the united states , and nato ;
· launch processes that facilitate the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty ;
· developing international and multilateral programs for managing the risks of civilian fuel production ;
· push for nuclear disarmament in the us and russia .
as former us secretary of state george shultz , former us secretary of defense william perry , former us secretary of state henry kissinger and the united states former us senator sam 基辛格 and the us former us senator sam nunn put it in 2007 , “ there is no way to be fully informed and desirable .
if it can not be put in place , the vision of denuclearization will not be realistic and workable . ”
perhaps the most critical step toward achieving this goal is to redouble efforts to address regional rivalries and conflicts that produce the emerging nuclear powers .
large swaths of the country from north america to europe can play a vital role in stabilizing the increasingly fragmented and fragmented international order .
these countries , however , will be able to make their own geographic regions a truly inclusive and vibrant security community that can be achieved .
otherwise ( we do not ) , the euro-atlantic countries and their organizations will be in the process of dealing with the twenty-first century ’ s security challenges , including nuclear proliferation , which is often insufficient .
recently , several heads of state , such as russia , the us president , and nato secretary general , have begun to embrace the idea of european security community and highlight the importance of shaping a stronger and more inclusive european security order .
it is time for this change , because the euro-atlantic family has entered a critical period .
on november 19 , nato ’ s heads of state have approved a new “ strategic doctrine ” that will guide the direction of organizing direction in the next decade , while russian president dmitri medvedev and his nato partners have issued joint declarations that support the common security challenge of the twenty-first century , and to determine the threat of missile defense .
two weeks later , european security and cooperation organization ( osce ) heads of state met in astana , kazakhstan , to develop the osce ’ s next phase of development .
concerted action to mitigate the nuclear threat must be a key element in the direction of a strong and stable global leadership in europe .
the real cooperation plan on missile defense will address our common threat , helping to eliminate fears that the security community has created .
similarly , europe ’ s atlantic countries can strengthen the international atomic energy agency ’ s safeguards , thereby ensuring that nuclear energy programs are not shifted to other uses , thereby creating a new mechanism for opposing the threat of nuclear terrorism , and establishing a new mechanism to protect key facilities from attack .
these efforts are essential to protect the countries ’ national-security and mitigating the nuclear threat .
implementing proposals to extend warning and decision-making time for all of the euro-atlantic region ’ s countries would add stability to the nato-russia relationship .
adjustments in the norms of strategy , tactics , and conventional forces are a step in the end of the militarized framework of the two .
if governments do want to build a stronger , more inclusive european security order , mitigating and ultimately eliminating the consequences of nuclear weapons , this is only part of what must be done .
the three are working with the leading organizations in the euro-atlantic region to develop these and other concrete steps that are essential to establishing a true security community , covering areas like economics , energy , and the environment .
appeasement revisited
i remember the 滑稽 , slightly embarrassed , and somewhat distressing dilemmas of western diplomats during the cold war .
they often encounter the sensitive question of whether to invite 77 charter parties , human rights democrats , critics of the communist party government , displaced politicians , and even banned writers , academics , and journalists – all of whom are friends .
sometimes dissidents are not invited to invite , and sometimes invite , an apology , but we are not willing to take the lead in our brave diplomat friends .
sometimes we are invited to attend , hoping that we will leave early before the official representatives , an approach that sometimes worked , and sometimes didn ’ t .
if we don ’ t leave , or the official representation we see as a protest , or we are all but invisible , or we all see the other , the only dialogue between the government and the opposition , which is the only thing we have in the face of each other , is the government and the opposition .
these are happening in europe and the world , divided into two opposing blocs .
western diplomats consider their country ’ s economic interests , but they and the soviet side of the “ dissidents or trade ” are different .
i can not think of western countries or organizations ( nato , the european union , and so forth ) who have called for , advice , or decree , in order to rule certain specific people – regardless of how they define , and that they can not be invited to participate in foreign affairs , 庆祝会 , or hosted activities .
but this is happening today .
one of the world ’ s most powerful institutions – the european union – is not hesitate to send the cuban dictatorship publicly to the cuban dictatorship .
the eu ’ s embassy in havana is now set to set a guest list in accordance with the cuban government ’ s wishes .
the shortsightedness of spain ’ s socialist prime minister , josé zapatero , is now in vain .
consider what is going on : every european embassy would appoint someone to choose the list of subjects , review whether the censors behave unchecked , or whether they are routinely published , and whether they are critical of the government , or even their political prisoners .
some will be removed from the list , and the list will become shorter , so that it is often removed from private friends who are responsible for censorship , with those diplomats who have been 无私援助 in ideas , politics , or material .
the situation could become worse if eu countries tried to disguise their screening activities by asking only diplomats to participate in the celebrations in cuba .
to tarnish the noble ideals of the eu ’ s innate freedom , equality , and human rights , no better way – the principles actually include the eu ’ s constitutional treaty .
to protect european companies from the profits earned from havana ’ s hotel , the eu will stop inviting open-minded people to the embassy , and will judge them with the face of dictators and their henchmen .
there is no more shameful deal .
of course , dissidents in cuba would not be frustrated without western 鸡尾酒会 and polite conversation .
this persecution , while difficult to combat , is certain to survive .
the question is that the eu can not survive the past .
today , the eu is seeing fidel ’ s tune .
that means that tomorrow , it might participate in the construction of missile bases on the coast of the people ’ s republic of china ( pboc ) , which could then allow itself to be influenced by russian president vladimir putin ’ s advisers .
then , for some unknown reasons , it could tie its aid to africa with the worst of its worst dictators .
where is it ?
unleashing milosevic ?
a visa for russian human-rights activists ?
an apology to saddam hussein ?
the european union ’ s worst political tradition is tantamount to suicide for the eu , which has the common denominator of keeping the best way to calm the integrity and conviction of others .
instead , the opposite is true : such a policy exposes the indifference to its own freedom .
after all , europe is uniting for freedom and values , and must not sacrifice these ideals to a dictator ’ s peaceful coexistence with the dictator , risking the growing dangers of the anti-democratic soul .
i am convinced that the new members of the european union will not forget that they have had the totalitarian and non-violent experience that they once had in a manner of non-violent violence , and that their experiences are reflected in the eu ’ s approach .
indeed , it may be the biggest contribution they can make to the common spirit of solidarity , morality , and politics in europe .
apple versus the 探员
virginia beach – apple ’ s refusal to unlock the iphone related to the attack on san bernardino in san bernardino , california , has triggered an open battle with the us justice department and the fbi – a controversy that has far-reaching implications for global data privacy .
but the situation is not as straightforward as it seems .
as a senior american intelligence provider , i believe that the fbi has already gained access to 法鲁克 法鲁克 ’ s iphone .
the apple mobile phone that he uses is relatively older , and , in other cases , has already been hacked .
the fbi ’ s request for apple is strange : why is the us government willing to 屈尊 the public debate on the issue ?
the fbi is america ’ s most powerful law-enforcement agency , and apple will eventually be forced to accept its demands .
( full disclosure : i hold apple stocks . )
the fbi has indicated that it is not just about a phone .
but few people know that this is not a simple issue of interests : public safety versus personal privacy .
to understand the fbi ’ s request , we need to understand apple ’ s latest mobile phone line , which is fundamentally different from that of 法鲁克 , the old 型号 technology , which includes the us security agency and the new 芯片 technology that it shares with israelis .
this technology is now entering apple ’ s products through apple ’ s israeli chip .
each of the chips has a unique signature personal signature , with the use of user ’ s fingerprints .
without a sign of physical contact without physical contact within the chip – a chip itself can not be shattered .
encryption also applies to any information sent to a 配对 service , like apple ’ s mail service system .
in the past , an instant visit to the fbi does not matter for the fbi , because the authorities ’ information about and out of the phone would be unlimited .
but with such improved security functions , apple now has closed this door .
not only did the company shut down new access ; it will soon be threatened by existing access .
this makes the fbi deeply uncomfortable , because it is its work .
interestingly , the nsa has taken a different stance .
the national security agency admiral admiral mike rogers has recognized that the backdoor is dangerous , and says that “ encryption is the foundation of the future . ”
if access to private communications is possible , anyone can do just that .
this complicates the fbi ’ s argument about public safety .
for example , do we really want terrorist groups to visit the president or a prime minister ?
for example , if apple accepted the fbi ’ s request , it would be happy .
for years , they have been asking apple for a backdoor .
apple ’ s current position may lead to its loss in the large chinese market – if the government ’ s demands are imposed .
the fbi ’ s request signals a new attempt to control .
the agency ’ s request is often delivered under seal , meaning that it remains secrecy .
this time , the fbi took steps to open itself publicly , in order to draw on the media ’ s attention .
the fbi seems intent on forcing lawmakers to respond to public outrage .
most legal arguments against the release of this phone cite the constitutional protection of free speech .
but the gun ownership provided by the us and its constitutional provisions is a better parallel .
in the past , technology in the united states was driven largely by military development and war services , while maintaining social order .
in the late eighteenth century , the sun was the apotheosis of the technology .
no technology is more effective than gun technology , so the us constitution dictates that guns can not be used to limit statements ( the first amendment ) or deprive citizens of their freedom ( the second amendment ) , the government ’ s gun owners ( the third amendment ) .
the ninth and tenth amendments prohibit the use of gun damage to the other implicit citizenship that may become apparent .
information involving our ideas , relations , and bodies has become the most powerful technology today .
if the us constitution ’ s framers are alive today and as well educated as they were at the time , the human rights act will likely focus on balancing access to information , to ensure that the government does not .
the fbi has called attention to the balance between people and the police .
as the debate unfolds , we need to consider whether , at a legal or policy level , it is time for everyone – including enforcement agencies , hackers , and terrorists – to gain or access information .
apple ’ s case will affect the balance of information power , while the scales are skewed against the public .
the problem is not hysterical tweeting , but more thoughtful responses to american politicians .
given the power of information in modern societies , we must think carefully about the legal consequences of the fbi ’ s request .
realism on north korea
berlin – despite the north ’ s poor poverty and collapse , the world is not on the ground to force it .
on the contrary , it is in this situation that calm and thoughtful heads must be met .
the genius of the habsburg empire ’ s prince 梅特涅 metternich in the postwar world order was that he did not turn the defeated france into a corner .
although metternich sought to stop the french renaissance , he restored france ’ s prewar border .
on the contrary , as henry kissinger has put it , the victors of world war i had neither a defeated germany nor encouraged it to accept the treaty of versailles .
instead , they offered harsh conditions , hoping to weaken germany permanently .
we know how to end it .
john f. kennedy was a believer in metternich .
kennedy ’ s pragmatism prevented the outbreak of world war iii .
sadly , north korea has not received such far-sighted statesmanship .
in the face of north korea ’ s dangerous nuclear program , we should ask ourselves how to deal with the north korea problem if the last 20 years have been handled with metternich and john f. kennedy .
of course , north korea is not unlike the soviet union in the early nineteenth century , and the soviet union in 1962 .
the leaders of the west , including japan , believe that north korea is just a small sum , and its bad economy seems to be on the verge of self-destruction .
in most cases , world leaders are reluctant to take north korea seriously , so that north korea ’ s response to every security issue is passively distributed .
but now , thanks to north korea ’ s nuclear tests and ballistic missile capabilities , we must change .
perhaps the great opportunity to address north korea ’ s problems following the soviet union ’ s collapse in 1991 was perhaps a perfect opportunity .
at the time , kim il-sung , the founder of north korea , faced economic collapse , reduced military power , and diplomatic isolation .
in interviews with asahi shimbun and the washington times in april 1992 , kim made clear that he wanted to establish diplomatic relations with the us .
but south korea ’ s leaders are not yet ready to accept kim ’ s proposal .
their old view of north korea has failed to recognize the fast-changing political reality .
another opportunity was missed in the decade .
if the north korean envoy william perry ’ s visit to pyongyang in may 1999 , president bill clinton ’ s policy toward north korea could have escalated as a diplomatic gesture .
instead , north korea delayed , until clinton was close to the us in october 2000 when he came close to the end of his presidency .
a few months later , president george w. bush overturned clinton ’ s north korea policy .
i remember that as south korea ’ s foreign minister persuaded the bush administration to negotiate with north korea , rather than putting pressure on the north to surrender , it is difficult to see the north korean surrender .
at that point , north korea restarted its yongbyon nuclear facility , thereby strengthening its ability to negotiate with the us .
in 2006 , before north korea ’ s first nuclear test , it was squandered .
despite a few months since bush began negotiating policy on bilateral talks with north korea , the kim regime has become more obstinate .
indeed , north korea ’ s behavior has ever been more unpredictable since then .
the sinking of south korea ’ s cheonan , the south korean cheonan , in 2010 , has been unprecedented , and tensions between south korea and south korea have reached its apogee for decades .
now , after the third nuclear test , north korea ’ s regime has declared that it will never abandon its nuclear approach , and we seem to have entered the most dangerous phase ever .
what is to be done ?
the first option is to contain further provocations by diplomacy .
but china ’ s cooperation is necessary to achieve diplomatic deterrence , only to recognize china ’ s vital national-security interests .
china is worried not only about the socioeconomic consequences of north korea ’ s explosive population , but also on the strategic consequences of reunification – and , in particular , the us military ’ s control of its border with china .
america ’ s mere announcement that it has no intention of tapping this military advantage does not alleviate china ’ s concerns .
china ’ s leaders remember that the united states had committed to soviet president mikhail gorbachev ’ s reunification and democratic transition in eastern europe .
only after their security is assured can china escape the north ’ s reliance on north korea and north korea , strengthening its control over north korea .
china ’ s cooperation , though necessary , will not solve the north korean problem .
a comprehensive approach must recognize the pace of change in north korea , especially the pace of change in ordinary north koreans .
simply put , the north koreans are no longer as isolated as they have been in the past , because they are increasingly aware of their poverty and growing links with china ’ s burgeoning trade .
this domestic change must be encouraged , because it proved that it will influence government behavior more effectively than external pressure .
but , while encouraging change to change the north ’ s fear of destroying north korea ’ s fears , south korean president park geun-hye continues to recommend providing humanitarian assistance in the right direction in recent tensions .
the importance of ordinary north koreans is no less important than the security of north korea ’ s neighbors .
the international community needs to develop a comprehensive solution that focuses equally on the realm of human and security .
it remains to be seen whether the vision and courage of these proposals will be beyond the capacity of today ’ s south , west , and china ’ s leaders .
被告席上 president
new york – in some ways , the derision caused by the international court of justice ( icc ) to prosecute sudan ’ s president omar al-bashir in the war crimes and crimes against humanity is surprising .
after all , the court of justice itself can not arrest anyone in sudan , let alone head of state of the country .
nor is it possible that third parties will intervene in sudan .
though the icc ’ s chief prosecutor , luis luis Moreno , has expressed confidence that bashir will be brought to justice , it remains uncertain .
but it is possible .
despite the icc ’ s seeming powerlessness , leaders in many countries have been engaged in an effort to stop prosecuting .
they do not seem to care whether these allegations are fair ; they seem to be showing solidarity with a head of state .
those countries that condemn bashir ’ s attempt to put on trial include most of the member states , including the organization of the islamic conference and the african union , and those of china and russia .
one can only guess whether some of the heads involved are motivated by their own concerns : they may one day face the icc judges ’ judges against bashir .
while bashir may be able to avoid arrest merely by limiting his international travel , it is not irrational .
charges against him have a powerful stigmatizing effect .
the university of judges , representing the icc ’ s members , accused bashir of responding to the negative responsibility of the crimes committed in darfur over the past six years .
these crimes have already claimed 300,000 people , and have displaced 2.7 million people .
even if the leaders of bashir ’ s heads of state succeed in persuading the un security council to defer to prosecution – a very small possibility – these charges will continue to hang over bashir ’ s legacy , unless he is on trial .
in 1999 , an international criminal tribunal indicted another state head of state , slobodan milosevic , the head of the republic .
although he seemed to be safe , he was sent to trial in the hague for a year and a half .
likewise , a 2003 international criminal court indicted liberia ’ s president charles taylor .
he had to flee liberia a few months later , first in nigeria , and now in the hague .
when those indictments were issued , no one can predict the development of events ; in retrospect , the indictments have had important consequences .
the court is still in its infancy , and antagonizing many heads of state with the same battle might jeopardize his future .
but we should also acknowledge that the court ’ s stakeholders are also fulfilling their duties .
the treaty ’ s founding treaty treaty explicitly states that heads of state have no immunity .
the un security council referred the darfur case to the court in 2005 .
this is a necessary investigation , and those who are found to bear the highest responsibility for the crimes must be prosecuted .
many who now oppose bashir also participated in a resolution that led to the indictment .
if the icc ’ s indictment now makes them uncomfortable , it is only because they did not anticipate the court ’ s mandate .
the primer of pandemics
every year , a few times will remind the world of the threat of pandemics .
in 2003 , it was sars .
it is now a potential birds virus that is dangerous and more dangerous to 30,000 people in 1914 .
the fact is that “ bird flu ” can be transmitted to humans , and it can not be avoided , implying that it could become the next global killer .
still , there are many potential pandemics , and some are not even viruses .
bacteria , prions , parasites , and even environmental factors are likely to occur deadly mutations .
the scientific forecast is widely understood that the economic and human costs would outweigh any previous war .
indeed , what is humiliating is that , in historical memory , the deadliest invasion was caused by a single-cell organism , such as cholera , 腹股沟 , and tuberculosis .
countries with a resource support have developed solutions that confront these pandemics – and to protect their citizens ’ limited strategies .
many governments hope that early detection makes them possible to contain pandemics .
containment is highly dependent on vaccines , but vaccines are only part of the answer .
while they have good defense against many viruses , each vaccine has a specific set of targeted goals .
viruses are parasites of cells , and each virus attacks a particular cell .
a virus is shaped by a particular cell , and it has injected some of its own into a particular cell , disrupting the function of cell cells , and destroying it in the process .
a unique form of the virus makes the most effective anti-viral vaccines conditional on a narrow range of factors .
sometimes viral characteristics are good for us .
for example , they will find it difficult to jump to different species , because they will have to change their own structure .
but if many of the host ’ s host – for example , birds – encountered many human beings , the virus eventually will find ways to reproduce in a new type of cell .
birds are the greatest concern today , just because they are widely dispersed .
but aids comes from 猴类 , and several kinds of flu came from pigs .
any deadly mutations need to be explored , so that we can develop effective vaccines before the virus is fully adapted to the body .
and when you realize that scientists should also monitor bacteria , prions , and parasites , they will be more concerned .
bacteria are more resistant than any form of life .
many are harmless in our bodies and useful functions .
they can also evolve and adapt , which means that they can learn to sidestep our drugs for enough time .
the bacteria ’ s two mutations need to be particularly specific : in a form of hostile form , they have the resilience of 超强 mutations ; or the deadly variants of the “ safe ” bacteria in the bacteria .
prions are a relatively recent discovery .
they are proteins similar to the proteins used by the body and the body , which means that they can deceive the body ’ s body of sorts .
they have only recently been identified as the cause of several infectious diseases , including mad cow disease and 克 , which are fatal by crowding out healthy brain cells .
prions may also lead to diseases that many nerve , respiratory , and muscle systems .
finally , parasites , simple animals that infect us , are already classified as pandemics .
malaria afflicts 300 million people and is the world ’ s biggest killer of children .
many parasites are worms : 800 million people ( 800 million people ) , 蛔虫 ( 1.5 billion ) , and 血吸虫 ( 200 million people ) , and the worm of elephantiasis ( 1.5 million ) .
and there are antagonists that are currently ignored .
environmental chemicals and particulates are likely to be 自成 .
or consider the combination of the problem , such as the combination of chemical infections and 花粉 花粉 , which would increase the number of asthma cases dramatically .
the new fungal infections are scarier and more difficult to treat .
ultimately , we can not predict where threats will emerge , so we need a distributed , intelligent detection system .
in practical terms , it is how to build such systems .
“ detectors ” must be experts , capable of knowing when a seemingly normal symptom is in an emergency .
they should be located everywhere , especially in high-risk regions .
initial warning of pandemics typically arises in developing countries , but it should be at the expense of at least as much as possible .
that sounds less complicated .
the key is to harness existing infrastructure .
health-care facilities exist in some form .
even where corruption is most acute , it is often the least corrupt institution .
health centers and clinics are expected to investigate the cause of the cause of a number of patients in a number of patients , even when symptoms seem routine .
in the public health system , only increases in a small amount of technical expertise and laboratory equipment can satisfy general demand .
strengthening existing resources has two main causes : first , urban hospitals are more likely to be reported than professional clinics .
second , this investment would fuel the region ’ s public-health potential .
the returns on these investments in rich countries reflected the benefits of early detection of major threats from early detection .
tropical and urban slums are humanity ’ s front line against pandemics , so these areas must be equipped properly .
for any country , public health is an important asset .
in this grim situation , it is wise for every city to build a 岗哨 , a city , every public market , and every public market .
a prisoner ’ s christmas
卢科 prison , kyiv – there is no atheists at night .
and now , after the trial and four months of jail , i found no atheists in prison .
when you live with great pain ( even in the cell ) , the regime ’ s enforcement system , including its own media , has been the only one , with your prayer , a credible , and reassuring way of life .
you will feel that god is the only friend and your family , because no one can listen to your worries and hopes for even a trusted priest .
in this season of love and family , the 寂寞 of the cell is almost unbearable .
those who are bleak , 死寂 , and 死寂 ( who are not likely to be able to read through the 铁门 小孔 ) , sometimes send their own bodies , and , together with the 郁闷 and 铁门 of 狂吼 , are not sure to be 窃窃私语 , but also 焦躁 , 形同 and 铁门 .
but , paradoxically , it was not overwhelmed by the 死寂 world of despair : your ideas have freed themselves from the monuments of the daily monuments and the role of their role in the problem – the spirit of liberty really the most pleasant gift for christmas .
in the cell ’ s darkness , i have accumulated power and hope in the sense that god is around the corner .
there is one person who will get those who suffer from pain and persecution .
in fact , i recently 读迪 特里 霍费尔 , who is in a remarkable and challenging prison in the prison of 狱中 , who aspires to be the savior of the world ( our world ) , and then in order to be a person ’ s well-being .
in a man who is likely to die sooner than that of the body , hofer wrote a narrow , 阴冷 cell in the cell , an open mind , an open mind , and , of course , hope – even in the darkest times of human history .
in my current predicament for ukraine , i would resonate with a particular line in which hofer was written in prison in prison : “ these ( atrocities ) , ” in prison , have been written in prison : “ these ( atrocities ) are not covered by 暴行 , but a surprise … . ”
as a result , i have gotten a little comfort in this christmas , because i know that the 不敬 of the current regime in kyiv , whose brutality and lawlessness are exposed to the eyes of the world ’ s god .
its democratic credentials have been stripped of the political joke that has led to the eu ’ s commitment to joining the european union , and the rapacious greed of those who are stealing is apparent .
the regime ’ s contempt for the constitution and the rule of law is now impossible to hide .
more important , the suffering of ukraine ’ s people is more well known , and we are no longer isolated .
europe and the world regard ukraine ’ s agony as a 正义事业 .
a daily crackdown on the rights of the people , suppressing media discourse , and extortion of business , has shown a mafia state in europe ’ s borders .
our european friends , while forced to deal with the regime , are no longer in vain to hide the smug inhumanity of the regime .
and i am thankful for christmas , because i can believe that democracy will not be tolerated in europe .
ukrainians will also be strongly perceived to be alone .
i do not want to treat myself as experts on religious faith and spiritual values .
i am just an avid believer in the existence of a universe that is a cosmic accident .
i believe that we are part of a mysterious and complete act of behavior , and there are reasons for the direction , direction , and purpose of the moment , and there must be a zero-sum purpose – even in the walls .
we have the ability to recover or revitalize our freedoms and societies , not individuals , but by uniting like-minded people around the world .
i know that we will do it .
this christmas , i told my family and friends not to worry about me .
as anna akhmatova , the great poet of stalin ’ s terror , said , “ i ’ ve lived in this graves . ”
indeed , i know that i am more alive than those who have imprisoned me .
christmas means that a new beginning will be possible for everyone , and , as hofer ’ s stated book , “ it ’ s the beginning of my life . ”
the ukrainian political opposition leader , yuliya tymoshenko , had twice as much as the ukrainian prime minister .
a personal affair ?
can public figures have a private life ?
recent events in three countries highlight the importance of this problem .
in france ’ s presidential election , both candidates tried to keep their domestic life separate from their campaign .
hollande was a father of four children , but royal was not married with him .
when asked whether they were married , royal replied : “ our lives are our own . ”
similarly , in response to president nicolas sarkozy ’ s wife , nicolas sarkozy , sarkozy said , “ it is a private problem . ”
the french have a long tradition of respecting individual citizens ’ privacy privacy , and french public opinion is more lenient than the us .
in fact , last month , tobias tobias , the top foreign aid adviser in the us state department , resigned after acknowledging that he was using the service that he allegedly offered “ sex fantasies , ” though he said he was just a massage .
in the united kingdom , bp , ceo of bp , has transformed the company from an second-rate european oil company into a global giant , and he resigned after acknowledging that he was on the ground in court , when he was aware of how he met a gay partner ( he was met by a male company to meet him ) .
when he resigned , he said that he had always believed that his sexual problems were personal , and he was disappointed by the mail on sunday .
public candidates should be judged by policies and performance , and those who occupy high executive or business positions , rather than personal behavior with them .
of course , both overlap .
the mail on sunday and his sister newspaper , 把表 brown , is the 理由 of the 材料 ’ s disclosures , with the reason that those materials include brown allowing him to use the company ’ s resources to benefit his private business .
the british oil company has denied that these allegations amount to substance .
as the administrator of the us agency for international development , tobias implemented the bush administration ’ s policies that would require the treatment of the aids organization to condemn prostitution to condemn prostitution .
this policy has made it harder to help sex workers who have been able to develop and disseminate hiv/aids .
there is no doubt that those who know how to implement these policies have the right to sex with the public .
if it is not clear that individual moral problems affect business executives or government officials , we should respect that person ’ s privacy .
but what about candidates for political leadership ?
because politicians ask us to hold power on their behalf , we can say that we should know as much about their ethics as possible .
for example , we can reasonably ask whether they pay the taxes they should pay , or ask their charitable contributions .
similarly , three years ago , the leaders of australia ’ s opposition leaders , hopes to become prime minister , were beaten to beat taxi drivers and interrupted his 胳膊 .
but are the legitimate interests of knowing more about politicians extend to personal relationships ?
it is difficult to draw a principle line in any field and determine whether it will provide the moral character of such a political figure .
the problem is that the media are publishing information about the relationship between their readers and their interests , and private conditions , especially personal ones , often do so .
even so , whether people decide whether to marry or whether they are gay , or whether they are to pay for them , do not tell us whether they can choose the good guys , and , of course , unless they do .
if we can cultivate greater tolerance for human diversity , politicians , business leaders , and executive officials will no longer fear “ exposure , ” because they will recognize what they do not have to hide .
prostitution is illegal in most of the us , including washington , dc , which may be one reason why tobias had to resign .
but , when new jersey governor helmut kohl was engaged in a serious road accident last month , it was known that he had no wearing , violated the law of his own state .
in any measure , corzine ’ s violation of the law is more serious than tobias ’ s .
laws requiring wearing wear have saved many lives .
laws prohibiting prostitution have nothing to gain from the law , and they may have a downside .
but no one said that corzine should resign because of his folly and lawlessness .
in the united states , at least , breaches of sexual norms still have a moral opprobrium with any real damage .
where has the water gone ?
manila – we live on a parched planet .
farmers 耕作 farm pastureland , and policymakers fret over empty reservoirs , dry rivers , and cities .
and that is just the surface of the world ’ s water problem .
subterranean aquifers , which play a role in the world ’ s aquifers , are running dry .
if this continues , especially for water-stressed and fast-growing asian countries , the consequences could be dire .
subterranean aquifers are essentially water water underground , stored in deep rock , soil , and 沙砾 .
they contain roughly 100 times the amount of water they contain in the face of the earth ’ s surface , lakes , rivers , and wetlands .
if you live in central africa , south america , or some parts of europe , you can live with subterranean aquifers in several hundred feet .
surface water resources , including 脱盐 waters and recycled wastewater , are not the global gap between water supply and demand – a gap that is expected to reach 40 % between 2030 and 2030 .
as a result , subterranean aquifers are increasingly being used to supplement agriculture in urban areas , where agriculture , electricity generation , and rapid economic growth are growing daily ( about 120,000 people per day in asia ) .
today , around 30 % of global liquid freshwater comes from subterranean aquifers .
one-third of the 37 largest aquifers studied by the university of california between 2003 and 2013 were severely depleted , and they are virtually non-existent .
some of the most stressed aquifers are in the driest regions , including asia , with 88 % of the water burden in the region .
asia has a land of groundwater irrigated around one-third of the world , with india , china , and pakistan being the biggest consumers .
south asia alone accounts for half of global groundwater consumption .
on the contrary , water tables are becoming deeper and water tables are falling .
in pakistan ’ s punjab province , over-pumping of over-pumping led to a drop in groundwater levels a year ( 20 inches ) , because it is difficult to continue growing food and water security for plants like sugarcane and rice .
asia ’ s surging population – which could grow by 25 % and reach 50 billion by 2050 – will cause food , energy , and water supplies to increase further .
globally , by then , food demand will be 60 % higher than it is now , and increasingly scarce freshwater resources will be absorbed .
climate change will worsen the situation further .
but the problem is not limited to water depletion .
over-pumping of groundwater leads to soil 沉降 , causing some asian cities to sink .
by 2030 , up to 80 % of north jakarta ’ s north may be below sea levels .
some estimates indicate that parts of beijing are sinking each year .
moreover , depleted aquifers close to coastal areas are vulnerable to contamination of seawater , causing soils to become 贫瘠化 .
some aquifers are contaminated by arsenic , and arsenic occurs deep underground .
natural earth physics estimates that more than 60 % of groundwater in the ganges aquifer is contaminated or polluted by arsenic .
in bangladesh , water contaminated by arsenic is blamed for more than 40,000 deaths per year .
the first step in remedying the status quo is precisely how much groundwater is available , and how it is used – and that is not easy , but not entirely impossible .
nasa ’ s gravity recovery and climate experiment satellite provides information that results in changes in the earth ’ s gravity .
by applying 遥感技术 to river basins , we can determine how much surface surface surface and surface surface usage .
another important step is to improve the pricing of groundwater .
china has already engaged in a pilot program for the extra use of farmers ’ excess water .
similar measures have worked well in australia and mexico .
but such measures are politically difficult to implement .
the key to success is not only to help countries develop the right policies , but also to help them establish the legal frameworks needed to establish and enforce them .
the political difficulty of eliminating electricity and gas subsidies is even more difficult , with subsidies encouraging farmers to pump groundwater per day .
if such subsidies can not be eliminated , there is an alternative program for innovation that can stop over-pumping .
in gujarat , india , for example , the government controlled groundwater by adding power per day .
farmers can acquire the power they need , but they can not pump the day long .
another way is to buy surplus power from farmers and 充回 the grid .
doing so would not only reduce over-pumping , but also complement rural incomes .
efforts to replenish aquifers could also be taken .
a pilot project in uttar pradesh , india ’ s uttar pradesh state , collects excess water into the water table , injecting them into the water table .
some 80 % of wastewater is released into rivers and caused pollution .
doing so would be far simpler or politically than to protect this behavior from logic or politics .
subterranean aquifers are the reservoir of last resort .
if we protect today , our children will pay dearly – or even survival – at the cost of today .
the arab autocracy trap
tel aviv – more than six years after the start of the arab spring , the living standards of most arabs are worse than they were in 2011 .
unemployment is rife in the middle east and north africa , where two-thirds of them are between 15 and 29 .
throughout the region , the system will shut down channels for political expression entirely , and the regime ’ s response is increasingly brutal .
the egyptian and saudi governments ( and , to some extent , morocco ’ s government ) are the best examples of the arab establishment ’ s inability to escape the authoritarian trap – even if the current situation suggests that another popular awakening is in the offing .
egypt is the classic case of how the revolution ended in betrayal .
president abdel fattah el-sisi ’ s dictatorship is even more violent than the strongman mubarak , who ruled egypt 30 years in the 2011 uprising .
with the help of the police force , which he himself called a “ 百万 , ” sisi has turned his repression into the most salient organizing principle .
it is an extraordinary task for anyone to reform egypt ’ s economy and benefit from its nine million people ( plus an additional two million additional each year ) .
the task is that egypt ’ s leaders can not be shy away , because the social contract of the mubarak era – egypt in exchange for an expansive welfare state and generous subsidies – is unsustainable .
the rate of youth unemployment in egypt is 40 % , and only a strong reform-minded president can pull egypt back from the brink of economic disaster .
sadly , instead of giving hope to the young egyptians in tahrir square six years ago , sisi has attacked individual programs , leading the military to become the main actor in the economy .
perhaps fearing greater social unrest , sisi has yet to meet the conditions presented by the international monetary fund as part of its $ 12 billion bailout package in november .
these include massive cuts in egypt ’ s bloated public sector ( which remains six million employees , not military and police ) , and reduced subsidies ( which still account for 30 % of the national budget ) .
moreover , sisi ’ s message of expression of political appeal is even smaller than the one-party system .
according to the egyptian economic and social power center , the number of street protests in egypt in 2016 was five times higher than in the arab spring .
a social volcano is forming , sooner or later .
in saudi arabia , the theocratic monarchy weathered the arab spring with relatively easy handouts , because the system can be bought on generous handouts .
but the kingdom ’ s social contract – like egypt ’ s – has been unsustainable , owing to falling oil prices and a population surge ( by 25 % over the last decade alone ) .
earlier this year , the saudi government was forced to cut public-sector salaries and subsidies for basic public goods .
this is a huge risk for the regime ( indeed , after protests erupted in four cities ) , owing to the fact that the country is the largest employer of saudi citizens .
many of the region ’ s autocrats embraced the “ china model ” of non-democratic development .
but this model clearly failed them .
this pattern of social and political 化 requires far more than the conditions that the arab world has .
this means that the ambitious program of saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman is facing a long and uncertain process , with prince salman ’ s crown prince seeking to transform the 转型 economy into a modern industrial economy .
like saudi arabia , morocco , another monarchy , was largely unscathed from the arab spring .
at the time , king mohammed vi responded to protesters in response to a constitutional reform and elections .
but morocco now faces its own “ tunisia moment ” – similar to the street vendor mohamed bouazizi ’ s self-immolation in 2010 – to protest against his own harassment .
bouazizi ’ s desperate act sparked the arab spring .
last year , morocco has suffered a terrible parallel in a similar fashion , when the merchant 压缩机 , a businessman who tried to recapture caught caught caught by the authorities , was 碾死 .
kerry ’ s death triggered the wave of protests in the northern rif , the region ’ s long history of insurgency .
the terms of revolution have often led previously unknown leaders to enter .
in the rif , an unemployed man named nasser 扎菲 ’ s unemployed men quickly spread to other parts of the country .
through online videos , he railed against government corruption and morocco ’ s “ dictatorship ” in morocco .
on june 11 , the capital , rabat , was the largest mass protest since the outbreak of the arab spring .
unlike his father , king hassan ii , mohammed supported the indigenous region ’ s indigenous region , and invested the rif to transform the rif into a manufacturing hub .
but progress has been erratic , owing to the monarchy ’ s insistence on all government-led economic projects .
the commitment to investment promised in 2015 remains unfulfilled .
nonetheless , morocco ’ s monarchy remains open to the rest of the arab establishment when it meets the public mood with thoughtful means .
this political skill , together with morocco ’ s improved economy , helps the regime to weather today ’ s turbulent and future violent upheaval .
but the government must also implement the political reforms that it promised in 2011 ; relaxing its grip on the economy ; and promote inclusive growth and prosperity , including deep regional disparities .
when complacent kings and “ elected ” autocrats do not respond to popular protests , they inevitably face more bottom-up , bottom-up revolutions .
for arab countries , whether subsidized or suppressing threats , the political genie can not be restored to the bottle .
learning arab online education
dubai – education has long been the problem in the arab world , with high-quality schools lacking a shortage of skills gaps , leaving many young people ( and even university graduates ) losing their lives to their lives .
in a region plagued by conflict and chaos , addressing these problems will not be easy .
but if a bold and innovative approach is made , it can be done .
of course , there is no strategy to ensure the arab world ’ s education challenges .
the recent establishment of abdullah al ghurair ’ s education fund , which has $ 1.1 billion in capital , is an opportunity to expand its opportunity for arab youth to expand their opportunity – and cost efficiency – for all possible approaches .
the result stands out : online learning .
arab countries have made rapid progress in expanding internet access .
by 2018 , the arab world is expected to have 2.26 million internet users , which account for more than 55 % of the population – nearly 7 % higher than the global average .
but most young people use the internet for social media , not for economic or educational purposes .
in this sense , they are missing a major opportunity , especially given the great strides made in improving online learning and attractiveness .
and , contrary to popular belief , these courses are not a practical and 长达 online lecture .
instead , they contain short 视频教程 , interactions in the practice of practice , and peer assessments and peer assessments that provide valuable feedback to students .
thanks to these rapidly developed models , online learning is now a better option than traditional education .
this is encouraging news .
after all , access to education through technology technology can address some of the core issues facing arab countries ’ education systems .
the first is the sheer number of young people who need access to cheap education .
once communities have access to internet access ( the arab world ’ s growing progress on this front ) , they can be scaled up at relatively low cost , to reach millions of young people who are in school or can not access access to high-quality education institutions .
the arab world ’ s only few institutions of higher education certainly can not accommodate so many students .
and , even with this capacity , they may choose to choose .
we have seen how the region ’ s universities and universities around the world have closed their doors to refugees in syria and beyond , forcing them to overcome huge bureaucratic and financial obstacles .
the second problem is the very low quality of education currently available .
for too long , the region ’ s institutions of higher education need not be shown to provide the international quality and quality requirements that they provide .
online learning will significantly reduce the difficulty of progress , and ensure that students are able to learn useful knowledge and skills .
moreover , online learning can facilitate the introduction of innovative education and learning methods .
for example , the reduction in traditional lectures and rote learning can create space for 自学 and personalized learning and assessment tools , with several professors now using these tools on a massive open online course and other online online platforms .
third , the arab world faces the challenge of delivering continuous education services .
to adapt to today ’ s fast-changing economic environment ( that is , the use of technology makes many jobs redundant and encouraging greater specialization ) , workers everywhere must continue to upgrade and expand their skills .
as the current status quo is , only young people from the rich world have sustained continuous learning in ways that do not require their families and jobs .
open online courses can provide an enabling level of expertise to promote personal careers by creating a level playing field .
given all of this , we have created the al ghurair open teaching scholarships program , which aims to provide the world ’ s best education programs through online degrees programs .
we have developed high standards by working with mit , the leader of open online learning .
together , mit and the open teaching scholarships are set to launch two new “ 硕士 ” programs , including those that have not yet taught the so-called stem cell ( science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ) that the arab world has not yet taught .
one hopes that such programs , open to young people in the arab and other countries , will mobilize students and receive strong support from employers .
but to maximize the impact of investment , we must also change the idea of online learning , which requires a concerted effort by educational institutions and the private sector .
indeed , arab educational institutions must begin exploring the development of high-quality online programs .
for its part , the government should reconsider the position of recognition that reliable and internationally accredited institutions provide online learning .
for private actors , the key is to reward employees with degrees and certifications through online programs .
at the same time , abdullah al ghurair ’ s education fund will embark on concerted action to provide innovative stem degrees ( science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ) to the world ’ s top universities .
not doing so would allow most arab youth to be left behind .
in 1999 , leaders in jordan , morocco , bahrain , and syria died in a short period , beginning with a generational realignment , and the death of yasir arafat and the united arab emirates ’ s longtime leader , sheikh 宰德 , died .
the region ’ s population is younger than the world average , but their political leaders are older than the world average .
this process of generational displacement is likely to be a key factor in determining whether the reforms in the arab world are effective .
at the moment , four political generations in the region have a political map .
the outgoing generation of leaders – that is , arafat , king hussein , or hafez al-assad , france ’ s king , and president hosni mubarak ’ s generation – had been born until 1935 , from the 1970 ’ s to the middle east .
the generation of leaders in this generation worked in decolonization and began their careers .
they grew up in gamal abdel-nasser ’ s 阿拉伯 nationalist education , and , for them , the most important political event was the arab defeat in the 1967 arab-israeli war .
this generation sought a strong , capable arab leader with israel .
they also believe – or at least pretend – that various forms of socialism and state socialism , democracy , and civil rights are not the first to issue .
the next generation was born between 1935 and 1955 , in many ways “ transitional . ”
most of this generation has invested in economic growth and more educational opportunities for the 1970s .
at the same time , politics remains dominated by the last generation , and the last generation will never be willing to put down power .
naturally , most of the generation was dissatisfied , and many are seeking an islamic system that alternative mainstream political institutions .
the generation , however , will not decide on the next two or three decades , but it is likely to be the next generation of people born between 1955 and 1975 .
this is the generation of syria ’ s president bashar al-assad , jordan ’ s king abdullah , and morocco ’ s king muhammad vi .
some call this the “ generation of sons ” – sons of leaders who led their countries for decades .
this generation has not been influenced by the arab-israeli war or the conflict in the middle east .
instead , their political education was in the gulf war in 1991 , with the arab-israeli peace process of the 1990 ’ s , including its crisis and bust .
in addition to the leaders of syria and jordan , abu barghouti , the leader of the west bank fatah , is a representative of this generation .
the generation is more familiar with the concepts of globalization and economic reform than socialism and revolution .
beyond palestine , they have lived independently and relatively stable lives within their respective countries .
in the palestinian context , the 一代 al , a generation of the first ( first and second ) palestinian uprising , will be a cornerstone of the generation .
but the importance of generational problems in the arab world is the fourth cohort .
together , the entire three generations are just one-third of the arab population .
almost 60 % of arabs are under the age of 20 , with roughly 70 % under the age of 30 .
this raises a key question : what would happen if the current generation of people who are now in power , as mubarak , assad , and hussein , insisted on without losing power , will be in the “ baby boom ” ?
assad , king abdullah , and gamal mubarak – whose son , king abdullah , and gamal mubarak – are less coherent than the outgoing generation of leaders , is less coherent than the outgoing generation of leaders .
many of the older generation were engaged in military careers , and many of their aides and partners were engineers and civil servants .
the social community of new elites is more broadly professional .
there are also more traditional politicians : figures representing specific societies or economic interests , rather than 政治 technocrats .
the new leadership leadership is more global in many ways than its predecessors ; the average education level is higher ; and some have been given foreign degrees .
the role of women has also increased .
developments in morocco , bahrain , and jordan do seem to suggest that changing leadership can help to mitigate rigid political structures and allow more people to participate .
but generational change is not necessarily accompanied by economic reforms and political emancipation – witness north korea under kim il-sung ’ s son , kim jong-il .
indeed , from experience , there is no reason to think that a modern way of talking , the willingness to liberate the economy , and urge technology development automatically represents the democratization of democratization .
it is more true to see the new elites in the arab elite using the power of the state to eliminate the economic agenda , while consolidating the power of the 其刚 .
this is certainly not a risky road .
if there is no significant increase in opportunities for participation , including a truly competitive election , the chasm between a predominantly young population and a narrow ruling elite will deepen .
this continued political inertia will ultimately lead to an increasingly young arab population , with the appeal of extreme ideologies , while driving the most capable of seeking development elsewhere .
arab fathers and sons
the succession of succession in the arab secular republics highlights the dilemmas they face when they turn to the post-revolutionary era , because regimes that fail to create a strong system tend to trigger a systemic crisis .
while the decision to make a transition within the family may lack democracy , it is not entirely irrelevant .
to be sure , such a choice would facilitate economic modernization , end political infighting , and further political change .
the liberal movement that is being supported by the west for years to come to power in office stifles the infant , and any abrupt free election has turned into a dangerous imposition of islamist democracy .
such a democracy has led to a government led by hamas , hezbollah , or the muslim brotherhood , which inevitably inevitably fights against the west and opposes the “ peace process ” that the us championed .
syria has sought to secure the regime ’ s continuation through a hereditary succession of similar monarchies , with hafez al-assad handing the regime to his son , bashar al-assad .
there are indications that egypt will follow suit , and mubarak ’ s son , gamal , will inherit .
likewise , libya ’ s muammar el-qaddafi could also make his son 赛费尔 伊斯兰 .
as a product of a revolutionary military coup , these secular nationalist regimes failed to produce popular legitimacy , but rather to return to the dynastic succession that they overthrew .
the center of dynastic succession is to seek peace and stability , which , when hafez al-assad agreed to achieve a peace deal with unprecedented intentions .
as a few months later , he has a sense of urgency that is a sense of urgency for an agreement , so that his inexperienced son will not be pressured to fight the fight for the golan heights .
assad has remained loyal to his father ’ s legacy .
unlike the provocative nuclear strategy of north korea and iran , assad ’ s “ axis of evil ” has called for dialogue with the us , rather than making the decision to invade them , and a compromise with israel , rather than a war with it .
in egypt , mubarak ’ s failure to heed nasser ’ s revolution and his grand strategic design was a matter of stability .
as a result , he will not accept america ’ s awkward democratic agenda , but rather to occupy the stage at the center of arab diplomatic support for the annapolis peace conference .
after all , the kind of sympathy that the palestinian predicament evokes among ordinary egyptians is a dangerous source of instability .
mubarak ’ s succession is in a particularly complicated way .
unlike assad in his father ’ s death , his son ’ s succession is far from certain .
he was widely trusted to set the country ’ s agenda , and the master of the liberal economic reforms that have enabled egypt ’ s economy to take a high-quality ride since 2004 .
perhaps , as mubarak ’ s critics put it , this long-delayed process of democratization is intended to prevent any possible challenge .
but , with secular nationalism and the rise of islamism , the muslim brotherhood ’ s hidden electoral power is a mortal threat to the regime and its strategic alliance with the west .
as a result , the regime refuses to take any risks .
qaddafi ’ s decision not to be excluded from the international community is not entirely unrelated to his desire for a country that wants to be left to his son .
his grim human rights record is not eliminated , but the lavish “ guide of the revolution ” has stopped dealing with weapons of mass destruction and global terrorism in exchange for ending sanctions and returning to the international family .
as a patient who challenged the challenges of the islamist opposition , he recognizes that the international community ’ s ostracism , and domestic problems , would be too dangerous to be dealt with .
algeria is particularly difficult .
as a last survivor of the revolutionary generation , bouteflika will have to find ways to bring about his country ’ s civil war to end his country ’ s civil war .
the infant democracy may well lead to a victory for islamists as it did in 1991 .
the transition to democracy in the past through revolutionary arab regimes can not be put in place by the western model , nor can it be enforced by F fighter jets .
but , as countries like egypt , syria , and libya have shown , dynastic succession is not an internal response .
instead , it means shifting to the 革命 transition , and economic modernization and integration with the international community may be a recipe for greater political change in the future .
the silent arab majority must speak up
algiers – since the united nations development program began to compile the arab human development report in 2001 , the situation in many arab countries has deteriorated .
indeed , the region ’ s cooperation today is unlikely .
this is unfortunate , because a new common goal for arab citizens , especially arab youth , is a prerequisite for achieving peaceful prosperity in the middle east and north africa .
the first arab human development report was published in 2002 by explicitly blocking three “ development deficits ” in the middle east : knowledge , women ’ s empowerment , and freedom .
the report , described as “ arabs for arabs , ” has made clear that regional development prospects and national elites speak of social problems .
after the first ahdr , there is reason for optimism about the future .
israel withdrew from gaza in 2005 , following its withdrawal from lebanon in 2000 .
the new arab leaders – such as abdullah ii in jordan , mohammed vi in morocco , and bashar al-assad in syria – have come to power , with hope of change .
saudi arabia announced the first municipal elections in 2003 , and was completed in 2005 .
egypt and iraq both held democratic elections in 2005 .
thanks to high oil prices throughout this period , algeria ’ s efforts to quell prolonged civil strife have largely succeeded .
the arab spring revolutions that began in december 2010 were widespread in 2011 , when the undp began to compile the 2015 ahdr , focused on the plight of arab youth .
i was a member of the 2015 arab human development report , and there are about 30 intellectuals and activists in the arab world .
the 2015 arab human development report similar to the 2002 report , but this time we directly engage with influential arab youth in order to acquire the full range of data that we have , and focused on the consequences of the wars engulfing the region .
the 2015 report was finalized in may 2015 .
what i can say in the 2015 report is that the arab world ’ s “ silent majority ” of thinking is freer , especially among young people .
a generational comparison of global opinion polls reveals this hopeful trend .
arab youth have more access to information from outside the outside world than ever before , and they are receiving the values that young people share in other countries .
specifically , arab youth yearn for membership in civil society , emancipation from rigid hierarchies and more space for personal creation .
while the curriculum is not liberated in the same way as the rest of the world , it is not the same as the rest of the world .
given these polls ’ outcome , the 2015 report recommended that national , regional , and international progress support the liberation of power , which is the key to ensuring a domestic solution to the many challenges that have been found in effective governance , skills , and flexible societies .
the only way to bring large-scale change in the arab world is to launch innovation and creativity – and that requires an unrestrained civil society .
basic citizenship , a deep reform of the education system , reform of the family law , and more open space for media and culture .
the 2015 report , which i hope will be forthcoming , will encourage rational and constructive regional dialogue .
the report begins with such a warning : “ the 僵化 of the 年轻人 regime that led to the marginalization of young people has deepened . ”
unless the government realized this reality , they will face far more than a few extremists . ”
the collapse of the old order led to a political vacuum that is filled by extreme suicide and 暗流 , with the strongest defense force in the face of such a delicate defense force .
reform-minded arabs must focus on expanding the center , rather than trying to bridge the gap between extremists .
the silent majority must break the silence .
otherwise , resistance to the status quo will continue to be dominated by extremists , who can only hate , without aspirations .
the arab world of the early 2000s was hopeful , and we see hope again for young people today .
arab civil-society reformers must speak out , or risk losing another generation .
economic growth after the arab spring
cambridge – five years after the arab spring uprisings , egypt , jordan , morocco , and tunisia have all achieved considerable political stability .
but economic growth remains tepid , and the international monetary fund expects it to grow by no more than 1.5 % per capita this year .
the region ’ s catch-up potential is large and large , and it is strange to wonder why .
one obvious explanation is that , despite significant progress in building a stable government , these countries are still beset by political risks that discourage private investors .
but these risks were high before 2011 , and private investment was mediocre .
there must be other explanations .
look at these countries ’ economic history , and we can get insights into this question .
market economies are relatively new things for the middle east and north africa , until the country ’ s dominant economic growth in the 1980 ’ s was followed by inefficient , and resulting debt .
but , unlike latin america or eastern europe , arab countries liberalized their economies without liberalizing politics .
with western powers , dictatorship is deeply entrenched .
thus , even if the reforms of the 1990 ’ s transformed the country ’ s economic role – in egypt , where national spending declined from 60 % of gdp in 1980 to 30 % in the 1990s – politics is still around the market .
in egypt , for example , 32 businessmen were closely connected to former president hosni mubarak , who gained more than 80 % of total credit to the formal private sector in 2010 , earning 60 % of total total credit , but only 11 % of the country ’ s labor force .
in tunisia , former president zine el abidine ben ali received 21 % of the 2010 private sector ’ s total profits , even though their firms employed only 1 % of tunisia ’ s labor force .
not surprisingly , this system has only modest growth .
political loyalty has not translated into economic efficiency , and the spectacle of autocratic leaders failed to create a world-class world-class company .
the potential competitors are at a disadvantage , so there is no incentive to innovate or invest enough .
and failure to realize its growth potential is not limited to traditional rent-seeking sectors , such as real estate and natural-resource .
in the tradable sector , such as manufacturing and utilities , rents are created through non-tariff protection and subsidies , leading to weak export growth .
as a result , jobs are scarce in sectors where jobs are rarely more than 20 % of the workforce .
with few good jobs reserved for the group ’ s relationships , a growing number of educated young workers can only find low-quality jobs in the informal sector .
add to that low quality of service and social mobility .
intensifying social discontent is met with escalating repression .
as political risk increases , autocrats ’ cronies demanded higher returns .
ultimately , the system can not control the streets and the private sector , ultimately leading to mass protests and political revolutions .
governments from the ashes of the arab spring inherited a broken and closed trading system .
inadequate property rights impede investment , but , thanks to the petty corruption and polarization of petty bureaucrats , it is not realistic to move toward fairness and enforcement in the current environment .
these countries could try to replicate the country ’ s economic success in 2000-2010 , with the ruling party and a large number of dynamic small and medium-size enterprises forming a political union that tripled exports .
the challenge is to find the right investors who can boost growth and create jobs without just the right investors to provide political support .
here , morocco and jordan have made some successful successes , with their monarchies demonstrating the capacity to manage the provision of political acquiescence and economic support .
but , while these countries ’ governments have made some success in expanding their business union , traditional rent-seeking groups are fighting progress .
concessions to them would mean reducing investment in the tradable sector , thereby undermining export growth considerably .
unlike morocco ’ s model , it has expanded its export sector by attracting foreign direct investment , while opening its domestic services sector to its own smes .
but it still needs to face the challenge of economic liberalization , and trade unions protect inefficient incumbents from the impact of intensifying competition .
egypt , for its part , relied on private firms with close ties with the military , as well as financing support from the gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) .
but , given falling gcc oil revenues – not to mention disappointment with the arrangement ’ s inefficiency – this path may not work .
in all four countries , employment growth will remain constrained for some time to come .
improving economic inclusion without threatening political leaders will not be easy , requiring a more inclusive governance arrangement .
for morocco and tunisia , the convergence between moderate islamists and liberals offers some hope .
but this hope is currently lacking in egypt and elsewhere in the region .
why economists fail to foresee the arab spring
unlike in previous years , no one commented that those shook the arab world , and that it seemed to have promised it , have been transformed .
of course , novelty will always disappear over time .
but the waning interest of the arab uprisings reflects a deeper change : the hope of a new , more representative political system is no longer , and as the expected revolution evolved into counter-revolution , civil war , state failure , and deteriorating religious extremism , despair is desperate .
but , as much as so far , the arab spring uprisings must be focused on the arab spring uprisings .
like any landmark event , they have new problems .
one of the most important questions is why economists have failed to anticipate the unrest .
forecasting political upheaval is not easy .
even in predicting the economic crisis , economists ’ record is not uncommon .
but this forecasting failure may reflect a deeper problem with economic assumptions and frameworks .
on the eve of the fall , some arab autocrats were actually being applauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund to praise the so-called success of their “ right ” economic policies .
in the wake of the arab spring , the world bank recognized that the wrong policy prescriptions for the arab regimes were problematic .
this raises many other questions .
are economists concerned about the wrong indicators ?
are they misled by false analogies ?
or are they not paying enough attention to potential pitfalls ?
in short , is it a matter of data or analysis ?
failure to foresee political revolutions , at least partly , is the lack of ideas .
mainstream economics tends to focus on rational choices about rational economic selection , which seeks marginal benefits equal to marginal costs .
this conceptual framework can not be used to tackle social and political upheaval , which is not a marginal change .
empirical economics is also partly responsible for this forecasting failure .
many data suggest that economic conditions in the middle east and north africa ( mena ) are good .
in the decade before the uprisings erupted in the arab spring , the region ’ s economy grew reasonably well , to around 4-5 % .
given that these growth is diluted partly by population growth , real per capita gdp growth is hovering around 2-2.5 % .
nonetheless , the mena economies have improved considerably in the 1980s and 1990s , when the mena economies were far behind .
according to traditional standards , the human development indicators in the mena countries have improved considerably , some of which have declined in some countries .
for example , egypt ’ s gini coefficient has declined .
moreover , despite the data , the mena poverty rate has been the lowest in developing countries , and the countries that have swept across the arab spring – mainly in tunisia – continue to decline .
the benefits of direct or indirect benefits from years of international oil prices – especially in 2002 , when oil prices reached a record of $ 5.7 per barrel – benefited from the recent upswing in business cycles .
of course , neither good news nor good news .
unemployment – especially among young people – is very high .
autocrats have not made social justice a high priority .
nonetheless , the fact remains that the mena countries continue to improve relative prosperity , without facing a recession or stagnation .
this is equivalent to a number of conventional thinking , which suggests that the masses rose up with economic hardship , with a relatively quiet period of relative prosperity that should be matched by a popular political movement .
aristotle ’ s stated interpretation of the relationship between economic performance and political stability is a very different interpretation of the relationship between economic performance and political stability : “ to ensure power , the tyrant must remain poverty , and keep them on the sidelines . ”
this is not to say that revolution is the privilege of the rich , but rather that a relatively prosperous growth might lead to greater loss of freedom , causing opposition to poor governance .
to some extent , history bears this out .
in 1979 , the iranian revolution , as well as the arab spring uprisings , followed an unprecedented period of economic growth ( quadrupled in 1973-1974 ) .
even after the revolution , previous improvements in prosperity could play a role .
according to the american sociologist james c. davis ’ s so-called j-nomics theory , revolution – such as the russian revolution of 1917 and egypt ’ s revolution in 1952 – has occurred in a long and abrupt period of economic and social development .
in other words , it is not direct economic hardship , but a dismal gap between expectations and reality that awaken the masses .
the arab spring shows that improved economic performance can not be viewed as a policy to prevent political instability .
learning that lesson may help us avoid being blindsided by future political upheaval .
it may even enable us to avoid the disappointment and despair emanating from the arab spring .
arab spring and western winter
beirut – there are many striking parallels between the arab spring , which began in 2010 , the brexit referendum , the election of us president donald trump , and the recovery of the european right .
each of these cases involved the collapse of the old order , and progressive parties are too weak to attack the form of governance and xenophobia , such as authoritarianism and xenophobia .
the resulting discontent with the status quo , which led to the rise of the arab uprisings in 2010-2011 , has varied widely , and the opposition has pursued progressive and conservative opposition .
the middle class is dissatisfied with losing dignity in the hands of an unaccountable elite .
young people are unhappy with their parents ’ generation of their parents ’ future .
the islamic state ’ s resistance to the loss of ethical values against social ethics has been tempered by islam .
in the growing number of disaffected whites , displaced workers , and frustrated young people in the west , this is a recurring theme in the long debate .
over time , as economic liberalism crowds out the principles of equality and social solidarity , the vast gap between rich and poor has eroded the politics of many western countries .
moreover , globalization and technological innovation have a huge negative impact on some social groups , while public policy has failed to mitigate it .
it is now urgently urgent to adjust to far-reaching policies , especially because climate change is posing a deadly threat to the world .
but what adjustments will be made , and who will be implemented ?
so far , the popular revolt against the streets and voting sites in the streets has failed to establish a credible alternative framework for addressing political , social , and economic issues , and now the west and the middle east are drowning in these issues .
the explosion of popular anger in the arab world has led to a long-standing regime ’ s anger .
but the old autocrats worked hard to prevent the opposition from a credible opposition .
instead , the military , tribal groups , sectarian groups , and religious parties are quick to take the stage .
egypt is now undergoing a restoration of autocracy .
yemen , syria , and libya are mired in civil war .
lebanon and iraq are fragmented .
oil producers that try to extinguish the region ’ s fire by pouring money into the region are running large fiscal deficits .
turkey is also moving toward strongman rule ; and progressive forces in iran are weakening .
only tunisia is still a full transition to democracy ; but , even there , economic reform is not enough to address the challenges facing the country .
the new autocrats in the middle east are consolidating power by divide-and-rule tactics along sectarian and identity lines .
given widespread lack of personal security , many people chose sectarian groups rather than security and civil rights .
in today ’ s west , populist politicians who do not actually plan for a better future are emulating the middle east autocrats .
by stoking fear of the “ other ” – including refugees , muslims , or foreign terrorists – they have promised to gain power to gain power .
once in power , they began to consolidate their rule in the same way .
democracy may be able to adapt to populist governance ; but , as we have seen in the us , these institutions will soon be tested , and they are not sure that they will be weakened without any means of doing so .
the same is true of international relations .
the middle east ’ s geopolitical landscape is being redrawn by hostile states like iran and saudi arabia , which is redrawing the middle east ’ s geopolitical landscape , as well as external intervention in regional conflicts .
likewise , the west ’ s populist leaders are undermining their countries ’ interests relative to china , russia , india , and northern europe , and the post-1945 international order will be challenged by the world ’ s post-1945 international order .
moreover , political forces can not provide such an alternative .
the dominant theory of global dominance has changed .
most people no longer believe in the future defined by progress in economic dynamism , global integration , and social democracy .
a more pessimistic view is that globalization , unfettered markets , labor-saving technological innovations , and global warming are eroding our future .
restoring optimism in the middle east and the west will depend on whether intellectuals , unions , progressive parties , and civil-society groups can establish a common political base and establish a shared vision for the future .
this requires not only a new solution to the ongoing problems , but also a credible approach to implementing democratic change .
at the very least , this new era of resistance and revolution has led to the constant openness of the past .
as a result , we know that economic policy should be oriented toward inclusion ; material consumption must be cut ; and it protects democratic institutions from the negative effects of wealth and vested interests .
to be sure , these are huge challenges ; but if we know it , we can begin to take action .
and success in a region could be a model for all other regions .
the right of the next tens of millions of people to go to cairo ’ s streets on the street ’ s call for peace may not be the result of · 自焚 , but the riots in istanbul , the us president , or progressive political parties in europe .
how can the arab world avoid the abyss ?
cairo – a series of startling events in november highlights the abysmal situation in the arab world .
one of the missiles launched from yemen to saudi arabia ’ s capital , riyadh , launched a major anti-corruption campaign and affected dozens of high-profile figures .
meanwhile , egypt has experienced the worst terrorist attacks in memory , killing more than 300 civilians and injured .
videos from libya ’ s alleged slave auctions have underscored the persistent chaos and turmoil that followed the country ’ s total collapse .
the success of a military struggle against the islamic state and reconciliation between palestinian factions in gaza and the west bank have failed to moderate the region ’ s collective anxiety .
these positive developments have failed to inspire people to believe that the arab world can escape the abyss .
foreign interference in syria , lebanon , iraq , and yemen has also become commonplace .
and the ongoing debate about identity politics and the border of the levant marks the beginning of a serious challenge to the future .
indeed , the situation in the middle east is not surprising , because , in recent years , no arab country has tried to resolve the ongoing conflict in libya , syria , and yemen .
in many conflicts , the influence of arabs is less than foreigners .
historically , from the crusades to european colonialism , the middle east has been the target of numerous foreign invasions .
this is the natural resource that has been corrupted by greed , and it was a proxy for proxy wars during the cold war .
even today , arab territories are being occupied .
but while there are several reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’ s dangerous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – can not solve the problem .
after all , there are many problems in the arab world itself , including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances , and weak national capacities .
any region that decides no future will only face disaster , and the majority of citizens everywhere feel disenfranchised .
although the arab world has traditionally been conservative , its population is under 35 years old , while young people have become victims of high unemployment in most countries .
this is not only a massive waste of resources , but also a source of serious , long-term sociopolitical problems .
and it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region .
arabs must take control of their future plans and hold their own future in their own hands to their own .
of course , they should continue to engage with the outside world and strengthen their strategic relationships with the outside world .
but they must learn less to rely on foreigners .
first , governments need to develop their own national security capacities to guard against threats and to prevent the expansion of the hegemon .
this , in turn , will strengthen its political influence and give them more diplomatic tools to resolve regional problems and prevent military conflict .
moreover , arabs must defend their national identities .
the national system in the middle east remains to be completed , but it is far more likely than a religious or ethnic faction that threatens to threaten regional stability further .
to avoid such an outcome , the region ’ s existing nation-states will need strong institutions to provide social inclusion and effective governance .
unfortunately , the vast majority of arab institutions do not have the capacity to do the job .
looking ahead , arabs should recognize that the best way to prevent foreign interference and maintenance of national interests is to pursue domestic reforms .
the arab awakenings over the last few years have revealed a neutral middle-class yearning for change .
but this is unlikely to change the fact that these movements have been fueled by a long period of mismanagement , with citizens expressing their anger over arab leaders ’ failure to promote incremental reforms .
arabs also need to develop more economic , political , and security solutions to adapt to changing circumstances .
the world is no longer bipolar or eurocentric .
indeed , it is not just the westphalian national system itself that is being tested for rapid technological , economic , and social change , but also the geopolitical model established by the post-war era .
finally , the arab world must confront regional hegemony and illegal occupation of arab lands .
addressing the current problem must respect people ’ s expectations of national and sovereign sovereignty , while not just the technical and transactional way to mitigate short-term difficulties .
after all , any policy that can not protect basic rights can not succeed .
both alone and as a group , arab countries need to develop a comprehensive strategy to address the existential threat that threatens its sovereignty and security over the next few years .
it is time for arab leaders to portray the vision of the future relationship with arab countries and develop plans to cooperate with non-arab neighbors to meet regional challenges and opportunities .
finally , but equally important , arab leaders must show how they can provide better domestic governance to their citizens .
if the arab world is to retain its own voice in its own future , it can not be complacent about the status quo .
leaders and citizens in the arab world must now work on plans for planning .
rethinking the government ’ s role in the arab economy
washington , dc – the arab world has a long tradition of commerce and business .
but , since independence , many arab countries have adopted state-led development models , leading to excessive reliance on economic activity .
this is unsustainable .
despite major setbacks in the 1990s , economic models in the arab world continued , owing largely to government hiring and providing universal subsidies .
this eliminates the risks that people face in economic life , strengthening their dependence on government while stifling innovation and entrepreneurship .
it has also undermined the provision of public services , resulting in mistrust of a severe dependency on the government .
the arab world ’ s state-led development model is now likely to reach a tipping point , as hundreds of millions of young people prepare to enter the labor market for decades to come .
because the public sector is unlikely to absorb these new entrants , it is urgently needed to create a dynamic private sector that requires not only adoption , but also requires technological innovation , thereby enabling workers to achieve inclusive and sustainable economic growth .
these strategies are consistent with the sustainable development goals , adopted by all un member states , including arab countries , to require .
achieving the sdgs – targets ranging from eradicating hunger and poverty to protecting the environment – will require a dynamic private sector capable of delivering technological solutions and willing to provide key financing .
financing the private sector – for example , the infrastructure projects required to target sustainable development – is particularly important in the arab world , where many governments are already burdened by debt .
to help fund financing , the world bank group has launched the largest financing 促发展 program .
of course , governments must also maximize their own resources .
in the past , high investment and energy income limits the willingness of tax revenues .
but as government money becomes depleted , the world ’ s most efficient arab countries are under increasing pressure to push for meaningful reforms .
arab governments must also increase their spending efficiency .
to improve the government ’ s ability to regain their citizens ’ trust – if it can help the tax – arab governments should integrate the concept of “ value ” into public administration .
such a framework for assessing the costs of public-sector behavior would require the collection , assessment , and disclosure of data in a transparent way .
mechanisms such as feedback loops would then allow the authorities to find the quality of quality and quickly correct them .
in this area , the world bank group is taking steps to help .
given that investment in human capital is the most important long-term move that governments can take , the focus on human capital projects is to identify the factors that are undermining investment in the field .
even before the full range of data sets , some way to improve public spending and 管理效率 is already apparent .
in particular , arab countries can emphasize the localization of development .
by boosting local governments ’ ability to plan and provide vital services , including health care and education services , countries can do the money to boost the value of their money , boost confidence , and make significant gains in achieving the sdgs .
the final area where reforms are necessary is regulation .
in many arab countries , existing public and private sectors – particularly in key sectors such as financial services , telecommunications , and energy – enjoy obvious advantages , including direct protection , blocking new entrants into markets , and inadequate restrictions on natural monopolies .
this hampers market competition for market competition , impeding the diffusion of general-purpose technology , and impeding the adaptation and evolution that the dynamic private sector needs .
instead of controlling the economy directly , arab governments should promote an independent and accountable regulatory body capable of improving economic outcomes .
of course , if history offers anything , we can know that the transition from state rule to regulation is a difficult process .
but past experience provides useful lessons for guidance .
in any case , we must not choose the regulation of the status quo , which would bring arab youth to unemployment and disenfranchisement .
this is all the more true at a time when tech giants like facebook , amazon , tencent , and alibaba are driving a shift to “ 超 ” a shift through digital technology .
against this background , the creation of a dynamic private sector capable of providing young workers in the arab world will need to operate under the framework of wisdom , thereby creating a more alarming and effective regulatory body that addresses issues like data collection and use .
it is often said that private innovation is driving developing countries across the future .
but this narrative can not be allowed to obscure the extreme importance of the wisdom and innovation that support such progress .
the government ’ s role in the arab economy must be improved , not less .
the lonely arab crowd
paris – according to descartes , the colombian philosopher 圣地亚哥 castro ’ s slogan in the “ zero point at zero , ” descartes described the slogan “ 我思 ” of europe as the only arbiter of knowledge and truth that gave themselves the only arbiter of knowledge and truth .
after this turning point , they began as observers , and their scientific methods , moral , and ethical priorities are above other cultures .
culture ’ s “ zero point ” is important , because they constitute a dividing line – a dividing line that has had a fundamental impact on the development of private and public life .
it is instructive to examine the idea of the castro concept .
indeed , it is arguably possible that many of the region ’ s troubles are attributable to a lack of homegrown “ zero points , ” leading to a modern culture that can not find solid roots .
david riesman , the american sociologist david riesman , has proposed three broad types of cultural categories : traditional guidelines for traditional guidance , morality , and values are guided by the principles of 价值观 , 道德 culture , and 指引 culture .
riesman ’ s framework is particularly resonance in today ’ s arab world , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology have led to the battle of competing cultural narratives , with culture competing to determine the region ’ s future .
ironically , it is the combination of this rising literacy and a combination of modern technologies that incited a clash between two types of “ reformers ” – religious 派 and western-oriented modernizers .
but , according to the lebanese publisher 扎伊德 扎伊德 , religious books are one of the most downloaded literature in the arab world .
the trouble is that most of the religious texts used in the arab world today are no longer available to experts , and – as riesman warned – they are often twisted .
the authors and 成书 of these texts are very different from those reading them today .
devout muslims themselves , of course , have their own zero point : in the year of 6.1 years , the angels of the angels and the prophet mohammed wrote to the prophet muhammad .
from that point , many muslims view themselves as the bearers of moral truths and moral sentiments , more than others .
this will inevitably lead religious ennahda to the type of culture that dominates the arab world ’ s dominant role in the arab world – an approach that treats descartes ’ s slogan as a reference point .
these arabs – often the economic elite – read , admire , and consume culture , while claiming to be committed to “ universal values , ” is a strictly european relic , dominated by christian intellectual tradition .
as a result , they are increasingly likely to face the headlines at home and abroad .
the final type of arab culture – the other 导向 – may be the most dominant : riesman , who is “ solitary arabs . ”
they are obsessed with the roots of their roots and traditions , and they are obsessed with the 表面性 of the conflict , seeking consumerism , careers , and lifestyles .
their zero point is the latest fad .
the reason for this cultural upheaval – at least partly – is the lack of intellectual tradition that lacks the inner compass that can give arab societies the inner compass of local values and modern ideas .
the best illustration of this cultural vacuum is the mismatch between the region ’ s reading habits and the response of the publishing press .
egyptians , for example , read 7.5 hours per week , compared to five hours in the united states .
but in 2012 , according to 扎伊德 , the entire arab world and its 亿 million inhabitants wrote only about 15,000 works , compared to romania ( million million people ) , ( 46 million ) , or us publisher penguins .
according to the population , the book published in the arab world is about 10-20 times higher than it is today .
the dominance of religious texts and western works has led arab readers to move toward extreme , unable to reach their own point .
ironically , the increase in literacy and the 蚕蛹 of modern technology did not lead to intellectual growth , but to regional conflicts .
it may be no coincidence that lebanon is one of the region ’ s first countries to increase literacy rates , and it is the first country to succumb to civil war .
unless arab and muslim societies rediscover , 激活 , and in some ways create homegrown contemporary intellectual traditions , the result will be cultural drift , or , worse , a bloody internal conflict .
arafat ’ s ghost
history gave yasir arafat more time than any other leader .
after all , he died for 35 years when he died .
but he kept his people in a terrible situation , without a state , a failed war , and a collapsing economy .
whether his successors can recover , the historic burden of the palestinian state depends on what they do .
looking back at his lifetime , arafat never really changed his faith : to destroy israel at all levels and replace the palestinian arab state as its lifelong goal .
his independent palestinian state , which does not include all of israel ’ s territory , misses the point .
he is equally indifferent to his people ’ s 疾苦 , and how to build a truly viable political and economic system .
today , in the post-arafat era , palestinians must choose from several strategies .
a more moderate strategy would be as soon as possible , believing that once israel ’ s occupation or violence is eliminated , the palestinians could concentrate on building , including relocating refugees , improving living standards .
but that is just the point of a few leaders who former prime minister mahmoud abbas and muhammad dahlan have found themselves in gaza .
if arafat chose another alternative – accepting israel ’ s existence , ending terrorism , and opposing palestinian extremists - the conflict has long ended .
without the only all-powerful leader , however , any successor wants to implement such difficult decisions .
the hard strategy is the traditional idealized approach , with fatah and plo veterans returning from exile in the west bank and gaza to support such positions , including arafat himself .
their current leaders , including the council chairman of the council of states , and fatah leader 哈巴 哈巴 , insisted on continuing war with israel until it is to destroy it , and then build a relatively solid nationalist regime in palestine .
their younger rivals , they also view islamists as a threat .
the leaders of the new generation of west bank palestinians , which began their political careers in the late 1970 ’ s , have adopted militant attitudes that are , in their view , a group of exhausted 老顽固 and lost all power .
unlike the hardline secularists , the militants are the most famous leader of the militants , led by fatah officers , who are willing to cooperate with islamists .
the militants claim a two-step approach to defeating israel .
for starters , the long-term continuation of violence will force israel to withdraw from the occupied territories .
then , with the palestinians gaining the upper hand , they could enter the second stage : using military force to conquer all of israel - a process that will continue for years to come .
finally , there is a revolutionary islamist view of hamas that continues to fight , continue to use terrorism , and , until eventually , defeat israel and palestinian nationalists , regardless of how long and ultimately the israeli nationalists will be .
since then , palestine will be a pure islamic state , with moderates being shot , and the old national leader was forced to leave or be jailed for corruption .
at the same time , however , hamas is willing to alliance with the nationalists , particularly within fatah .
the problem for palestinian moderates is clear : any leader who is willing to reach a peace deal with israel would be opposed – opposition – that is , to more than 80 % – from the power of more than 80 % of the movement .
the key question is whether the palestinian people , tired of their leaders ’ endless debate , corruption , and incompetence , can make the government heard , ending the conflict that has already cost them too much .
but none of the major factions is proposing much more listening to the masses , and arafat left no such mechanism .
moreover , we can not underestimate the enormous impact of radical religious , ideological , and misinformation .
four years ago , arafat refused to establish an independent palestinian state that amounts to an independent palestinian state and the gaza strip , and more than $ 20 billion in refugee reparations , but a few palestinians who really know the matter .
the main problem left by arafat is the lack of any form of leadership .
the founder of political movements deliberately pushed their organizations to chaos , and this history has been extremely rare .
arafat not only left the successor , but no order .
for decades , the plo has produced a political culture of 守纪律 .
arafat managed a group of 混乱 competitors , threatening not only other potential leaders , but also of all power ( and money ) that musharraf himself managed to manage .
only when arafat ’ s leaders decided to be determined and genuinely wanted to end the conflict in all areas will the real chance of peace emerge .
arafat ’ s death may also herald the beginning of this process , but the transition to a new palestinian leader will not only take years , but also to guarantee that the new leader will be moderate .
arafat ’ s last hurrah
during a long period of death , yasir arafat gave the palestinian cause the last thing that he was working for .
he launched a protracted war of national liberation , which he endured for a series of long siege - in amman , 1982 , beirut in 1982 , and in ramallah to ramallah .
in contrast to the arab world ’ s leaders , arafat ’ s tenure is also the longest , because his life exceeds the four egyptian presidents , najib , nasser , anwar sadat , his term in office , and three other leaders in the country ’ s two most populous countries , the united kingdom , and the three other leaders of the country ’ s king , france , and the three other leaders in morocco .
today ’ s political leaders , alive and alive , are not alone in meeting the world ’ s leaders .
but arafat left us far less than endurance .
many people say that arafat was a mixed blessing for his people .
their fate and fate are inextricably linked , and they are at times the verge of collapse .
in the decades after the expropriation of their homes , the palestinians have become a group of homeless refugees , some remaining in the new state of israel , where they remain second-class , and others to the arab world and the world .
it was yasir arafat , who founded the plo ( plo ) he created , giving them a sense of dignity .
ultimately , the armed struggle launched by the plo did give the palestinians the power to survive , and it is deeply embedded in their minds .
they can no longer afford to ignore their cause .
there is no modern issue that has attracted so many un resolutions and international diplomacy .
if the political struggle is an art of compromise , arafat is a master of the palestinian and palestinian people .
he managed to stay in power for four decades , with no serious challenge .
internationally , he can not keep up with the post-cold war era .
regardless of whether he bears full responsibility , the real opportunity for the camp david settlement in august 2000 to miss the camp david settlement was an undeniable reality , and one year later , he admitted .
but it was too late , because both israel and the us have changed , and they have lost interest in solidarity .
in the last four years of his life , arafat ’ s public space was substantially reduced , regardless of whether it was directly or metaphorically .
he can no longer unite his israeli counterpart , or control the palestinian militants who favor suicide attacks .
nor can he contain the mounting corruption within the pa .
the world is also moving in the direction of arafat ’ s adverse performance , shifting attention to bush ’ s war on terror in afghanistan and iraq .
if anything , the impact on him , whether for him or his career , is highly detrimental .
arafat ’ s familiar world is like his own health , as he did with his own health .
ironically , as arafat ages , world leaders and the media have rediscovered his importance as a leader and individual .
the media gave him a long , or even near saturation , the focus of the world ’ s attention .
both tony blair and jacques chirac ’ s speech in the aftermath of arafat ’ s death as soon as he was an end to arafat ’ s death have been more urgent than ever .
the death of arafat did not seem to give the palestinian people an opportunity to secure the opportunities he can not acquire – namely , the dream of an independent , democratic palestinian state .
that is arafat ’ s last hurrah .
why have central banks started experimenting ?
london – over the last decade , central banks have been on a rollercoaster ride , from heroes to bear and becoming heroes .
in 2006 , when alan greenspan retired from the fed chair of the federal reserve board , the reputation was high .
he steered the us economy through boom-and-bust cycles , carefully crossing the potential growth threat posed by the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , with gdp and productivity growth .
at his last board at the fed board , timothy geithner , the chairman of the new york fed , told greenspan that he now looks embarrassing to greenspan , saying that greenspan ’ s reputation will continue to rise rather than decrease .
a mere three years later , the nobel laureate economist paul krugman has borrowed a python sketch of monty python ’ s 鹦鹉 , saying that greenspan was now discredited .
central banks were widely viewed as being in the early years of this century .
they have allowed global imbalances to take over over time , with 亲切 watching a large credit bubble , ignoring dangerous signals in the mortgage market , and 赞美 the innovative but toxic financial products created by overpaid investment bankers .
the early reactions to deepening the crisis are also puzzling .
the bank of england talked about moral hazard as the bank of england talks about the collapse of the banking system , and the european central bank continues to struggle with imaginary inflation when almost all economists consider the eurozone collapse and the associated credit crunch .
but , despite these missteps , the central bank , once viewed as part of the problem , was seen as a key part of the solution .
they gained the power of the new regulatory system , and are encouraged to adopt new , highly interventionist policies to contain depression and deflation .
central banks ’ balance sheets have expanded dramatically , and new laws have strengthened their mandate considerably .
in the us , dodd-frank has allowed the fed to enter its regulatory system in which it has never been regulated , giving it power to take over and settle failed banks .
in the united kingdom , banking supervision was separated from the boe in 1997 , and , in 2013 , the bank of england , which was also a prudent supervisor for insurance companies – its role was greatly expanded .
at the same time , the ecb is now a direct supervisor of more than 80 % of the eu ’ s banking sector .
over the last five years , central banks have become the world ’ s fastest-growing industries .
the central bank seems to have reversed the number of attacks , making great strides .
they sometimes produce innovative measures that help the world economy recover .
but , for now , this power expansion may be producing ambiguous results .
in fact , some central banks are beginning to worry about its expanding role , potentially counterproductive .
there are two related dangers .
the first danger can be summarized by the title of mohamed el-erian ’ s book the only game in town .
central banks are expected to assume more post-crisis adjustment burdens .
their large-scale asset purchases are a life-support system for financial economies .
but they can not solve fundamental problems like global imbalances and large debt overhangs .
indeed , they may be blocking the other adjustments needed to address the economic recovery , including fiscal adjustment and structural adjustment .
this is particularly true in europe .
the ecb has managed to maintain the euro by what mario draghi called “ whatever costs ” success , but the government has done little .
if the ecb continues to prescribe heavier doses of heavier doses from its currency , why should it make tough decisions ?
the second danger is that it is sometimes called the problem of “ too powerful citizens . ”
quantitative easing is one of them .
it blurs the line between monetary and fiscal policy – which is clearly the subject of elected governments – with unease .
we can see this in germany , with many germans questioning whether the ecb is too strong and independent , independent , and unaccountable .
similar criticism is driving those who want to “ audit the fed ” – often demanding that monetary policy be subject to congressional oversight .
there are also concerns about financial regulation , particularly the new macroprudential tools that central banks are 亮闪闪 .
in the new book the end of alchemy , mervyn king , the former governor of the bank of england , points out that using credit to intervene directly should be subject to political decisions .
others , notably axel weber , the former president of germany ’ s bundesbank , argue that central banks directly supervise banks .
what matters is financial markets , and supervisors are blamed .
if central banks are put on the front line , contagion risks are contagious , and the risk of a lack of confidence in monetary policy .
this brings the greatest concern .
central banks ’ monetary-policy independence is a hard-won prize .
this independence has brought enormous benefits to our economies .
but there is a need for a different form of political accountability in a way that uses public money to buy bonds , determine whether mortgages are available , and that the banks are costly to their shareholders .
the danger is that hasty post-crisis decisions to make the central bank more function could have unforeseen consequences .
in particular , strengthening political oversight of these functions could affect monetary policy .
for this reason , whatever new mechanisms of accountability are adopted , it must be carefully designed .
immunization on the front line
maputo – much of the news in mozambique is not good – poverty , disease , conflict , and floods .
but my country does not have a good thing .
over the last two decades , mozambique has become a well-functioning democracy , with its agricultural sector growing , increasing its literacy rate , and its children ’ s mortality rates have declined in the first half of 1990 ; in 2010 , the number fell to 135 .
the last achievement , i am proud , has been particularly proud , given that my work colleagues with my work in mozambique have been working hard , and i believe that we contribute to this achievement .
in an era that i grew up , mozambique was still under portuguese rule , and the inequality of the colonial community made me a concept that all have had the right to secure health and health care .
i remember a pediatric ward working at a pediatric ward , and often witnessed children ’ s death from polio , measles , and tetanus , which can simply be prevented by vaccines .
the impact of this experience has helped me to ensure that every child in mozambique has been committed to ensuring that every child in mozambique , where he is born , where he is born , can deliver a healthy vaccine to him .
a few days later , i joined 300 global leaders in abu dhabi to attend the world ’ s first vaccine summit in abu dhabi – a meeting aimed at ensuring that all children in the region have access to vaccines .
bill gates and kofi annan have shown that immunization programs deserve adequate funding and political support .
my audience is unlikely to be as much as gates and annan , but i would add my own insights to my own .
millions of health workers , like my colleagues and i , have done their part .
we have made tremendous progress in bringing more children to vaccines , which is why a growing number of children can escape their fate .
so , if parents refuse to give their children to their children , a major priority for the vaccine is that i work with workers , community leaders , school teachers , and local political figures to educate parents with vaccines .
but access to community support is not enough .
ensuring that vaccines are in the right place is also crucial in the right place .
for example , in order to prevent shortages , VillageReach VillageReach , the organization i worked , helped to correct the data data that are needed to forecast the number of vaccines that each health center needs .
VillageReach has also opened a company to deliver diesel gas to the health center in northern mozambique , where access to electricity is unreliable , and the electricity it needs to be used for refrigeration is not even available .
by 丙烷气 , we can ensure that vaccines do not spoil in the hands of manufacturing from manufacturer to mother and children .
every month , we all need to ensure that health workers do “ last mile , ” bringing vaccines and other health services to remote rural communities and children .
finally , i understand that meticulous records and measuring outcomes are essential to bringing more children to vaccines .
this is why we assess different methods for gathering data data , including using mobile apps to digitize paper records .
the creation of routine immune systems has enabled us to eradicate polio and most measles ( only one type of 尚待 ) .
earlier this month , we had a routine immune system to vaccinate pneumonia , the first in history in mozambique , for the first time in the history of the country ’ s history , which is the first killer of children under the age of five .
our long-term goal is to strengthen the conventional immune systems , which cover all children in mozambique , giving them access to basic vaccines and other health services .
i believe that we can do that , because we have made significant progress , despite challenging difficulties .
there are major challenges ahead , but i am confident that , with the support of the global community , i am confident that my children and societies have a thriving chance of a successful chance of success .
a recovery for all
new york – over the last two years , most countries in the world have chosen to expand public spending , buffer the global financial crisis for their economies and citizens .
but this year , with signs of economic recovery beginning , developed countries quickly shifted from fiscal stimulus to fiscal consolidation .
even developing countries are now joining the consolidation .
unicef ’ s survey of 126 countries shows that a large number of low- and middle-income countries are expected to cut public expenditures in 2010-2011 .
it is now time to restore the timing , because governments have just pledged to achieve development goals , such as reducing poverty and reducing infant mortality , at the united nations millennium summit last september .
for most low- and middle-income countries , the incipient economic recovery is fragile and uneven .
indeed , many low- and middle-income countries are vulnerable to commodity-price volatility , weak financial systems , low demand for world markets , weak external financing , overseas development assistance , and investment shortfalls .
more importantly , according to the un and the world bank , the impact of the global economic crisis continues to reflect hunger , unemployment , and social unrest .
rising food and fuel prices have weakened poor households ’ purchasing power , as well as the social services and employment opportunities they enjoyed .
moreover , poor households have begun to reduce food consumption , according to the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) .
in addition to the hundreds of millions of people who already have reached poverty in 2008-09 , the long-term cumulative impact of the financial crisis will add another 64 million to extreme poverty in 2010 .
in the 1980 ’ s , the adjustment program forced the state to cut education , health care , water supplies , agriculture , and other areas in areas like other areas .
as the late tanzanian president , nyerere nyerere , has called for : “ do we starve our children to pay for debt ? ”
infant mortality rates rose in many low-income countries , and inequality is growing .
as a result , unicef has proposed a life-threatening adjustment program , and has proposed that children are protected in the economic crisis .
it argued for more expansionary macroeconomic policies , creating jobs for the poor while creating opportunities for job creation and public investment .
similar responses have been repeated after three decades , and we should take the same approach .
the poor in developing countries have once again been forced to shoulder the worst consequences of the crisis .
the key is that this time can not be transformed into another lost decade , and poor households , especially children , can no longer suffer as they did in the 1980s .
that is possible .
unicef surveys for 126 developing countries showed that , in nearly half of the country ’ s public spending , the usual adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts , elimination of food subsidies , and restrictions on the already meager social security system .
these adjustments are often implemented without serious studies of social impact .
how many poor children in food and health-care services can suffer or die ?
how many children have a shortage of teachers , or poor children , who are forced to work for their children ’ s job ?
adapting public spending to the risk of a recovery in the recovery would exacerbate inequality in developing countries further .
premature fiscal austerity and/or cancellation of the threat of a countercyclical economy threaten public finances that are essential to restoring recovery from the worst affected by the crisis .
as the global recession improves , the need for recovery is the most urgent need for recovery , and the recovery must be taken to everyone , expanding employment , improving inequality , and continued development .
the goal is achievable .
but it needs to maintain assistance for poor countries ; the government needs to focus on supporting expansionary macroeconomic policies that support employment and broader economic activity ; a new program to expand health-care delivery and social protection ; and need education , water supplies , health , agriculture , and food security .
springtime for fascism
new york – are we seeing a new dawn of fascism ?
many people are beginning to think so .
donald trump has been compared to the fascists , as did vladimir putin and a variety of demagogues and right-wing 大嘴巴 in europe .
the recent wave of gun bluster has been 远播 the philippines , whose president-elect , rodrigo duterte , has vowed to nudge suspected criminals into 马尼拉湾 .
the problem with terms like “ fascist ” or “ nazi ” is that they were too often used by too many ignorant people to have lost any real significance .
few people actually understand what fascism actually meant .
fascism has become an integral part of what we do not like .
the alternative is not only political debate , but also historical memory .
when a republican candidate in 2014 compared the us property tax to the holocaust , mass murder of jews was dismissed to almost meaningless .
the same is true of trump ’ s case with hitler or mussolini .
as a result , we are too easily distracted by the real dangers of modern demagoguery .
after all , it is not difficult for trump – geert wilders in the netherlands , putin , or duterte – to refute the fascists and nazi accusations .
they may be 令人生厌 , but they do not organize a 冲锋队 , build concentration camps , or call for a business government .
of course , forgetfulness or ignorance in the past is both two-way .
when a young dutch writer of the new wave of compassion expressed antipathy toward “ cultural elites ” at home , it is strange to wonder whether , in the words of the “ 调 ” and other arrogant forms of 健康美 , it is a mistake to do so .
no amount of 前卫 music is the cutting edge today , which is precisely what hitler ’ s followers loathe – and ultimately shut down .
something else in contemporary political bombast reflects the darkest history of our darkest history , such as a few decades ago that would have dared to push any politician to the margins .
incitement to hatred of minorities , 怒斥 journalists , stoked popular opposition intellectuals , financiers , or anyone who possesses a language can not enter mainstream political ideas , because there are plenty of people who still understand the danger .
clearly , today ’ s demagogues are less concerned about the “ political correctness ” they call the “ political correctness . ”
we are less clear about whether they have enough historical sense of history to understand that they are waking up to the post-world war ii generation , but now we know that we are only dormant demons , until we have forgotten the past .
i am not saying that everything populists say is untrue .
hitler was right to point out that germany ’ s mass unemployment was the same .
many of the demagogues ’ fear of the phenomenon is worthy of criticism : the eu lacks transparency , the greed of wall street bankers , and the reluctance to confront the problems posed by large-scale immigration , and the lack of attention to those suffering from economic globalization .
the mainstream parties have been unwilling or unable to solve .
but when today ’ s populists are accused of being “ elites ” ( whatever the elite ) and unpopular ethnic or religious minorities , their views are strikingly similar to the enemies of liberal democracy in the 1930s .
talk of “ betrayal ” is a real feature of a narrow demagogue .
the cosmopolitan elite is the 一刀 of “ us ” ; our culture is the 无底 of the abyss ; our culture is damaged by foreigners ; once we eliminate a 叛徒 , let them deny them , we will again be able to make a comeback .
politicians and their supporters may not be fascists , but their rhetoric is strikingly similar to the true fascist .
the fascists and nazis of the 1930s were not from nowhere .
their ideas are not original .
for years , intellectuals , activists , journalists , and clerics 灌输 the idea of hatred , paving the way for mussolini , hitler , and his imitators in other countries .
some are catholic opponents who resent secularism and individual rights .
some are obsessed with the supposed global domination of jews .
others are idealists who are looking for indispensable racial or national spirit .
even if most modern demagogues know that such precedents are largely vague .
in central european countries like hungary , or even in france , they may actually understand the relationship , and some far-right politicians are not shy about attacking jews openly .
in most west european countries , however , demagogues use their admiration for israel as an alibi , and to turn racism into muslims .
language and ideas have consequences .
it is not entirely inappropriate to compare today ’ s populist leaders to the distant past .
but by exploiting the same popular sentiment , they are creating a toxic atmosphere that threatens to turn political violence into the mainstream .
does the democrats really do better for the us economy ?
cambridge – in recent months , hillary clinton has repeatedly claimed that , in the democratic party , the us economy was performing significantly better .
but the truth is that she is absolutely right .
there is no doubt that the president is just one of many factors shaping the economy , and some presidents are certainly more fortunate than others .
but this does not mean that clinton ’ s statement , as some media outlets have shown , is only “ half half half , ” according to the 事实 机构 institution .
the difference between the democrats and the republicans ’ total economic performance is persistent and significant , and it is clearly higher than the threshold for statistical significance .
princeton university economist alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study .
their starting point is a observation : world war ii ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , average annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % during the republican period .
if it goes back , it would also include hoover and franklin d. roosevelt .
even the first three months of the presidency , or the first three quarters of the country ’ s office , have been a similar outcome .
but this is not all .
in the 256 quarters of the 16 post-war presidential term , the us economy has suffered a 1.1 quarters of recession during the democratic presidential administration , and 4.6 quarters in the republican party ’ s administration .
the likelihood of such a large gap is less than one in 100 .
and this trend is not confined to gdp .
since 1945 , the unemployment rate has fallen by 0.8 percentage points under democratic rule , while the republicans rose by 1.1 percentage points – the gap reached 1.9 percentage points .
the structural budget deficit ( about 1.5 % of potential gdp ) under democratic presidents is smaller than the republicans ( 2.2 % ) , though this did not prevent republicans from criticizing excessive republican spending .
even the standard & poor ’ s is significantly higher under democratic rule – 8.4 % versus 2.7 % .
( but the share of stock prices is so volatile that this disparity is not statistically important . )
in the economy ’ s economic performance , it is extremely unlikely that the mere impossibility of luck – without requiring fancy econometric to illustrate this .
consider the recession record .
if the recession began with the equal opportunity of the democratic and republican presidents , the possibility of a fourth four recessions began with one of the republicans ’ party during the republican party ’ s rule – a number of 朝上 heads .
such possibilities are low , but they have been in the past 35 years .
if you go back ten business cycles and assume that the recession begins with the democrats and the republican presidency , it would be less likely .
with nine of the last ten recessions in the last ten recessions , it is only one at one point when one or two of the ten .
but the truth is that , as it stands , the committee for business cycles identified the committee .
the more shocking truth is that the two parties have been eight weeks old .
during the four transitions in the republican party , gdp growth slowed ; in other four , the democratic party came to power .
this would amount to a row on eight coin tosses – a 256 with a 256 .
the democrats ’ success is therefore not a matter of luck .
( in fact , blinder and watson have also observed that , when democrats control congress or appoint fed chair , the us economy performs better , though the main determinant remains the president ’ s party . )
what is then , then , is the partisan performance gap .
but there is no telling how much of these factors are influenced by us president policies .
more unknown , the other 44 % of the performance gap is due to the factors .
in assessing clinton ’ s claim on this topic , the fact is that many of the people who have cited blinder and watson ’ s findings : contrary to popular assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies were no more “ 增长 ” or expansionary in the democratic party ’ s tenure than in republican presidents .
but with much fiscal and monetary stimulus , the president will have many policy decisions – energy , anti-trust , regulatory , trade , labor , foreign policy , and so forth .
it can not be tested by econometric tests .
it is this uncertainty that has prompted the fact that the fact-checkers call clinton a 半对 .
but she never attempted to explain performance differences with specific policies .
what she says is that the us economy fared better under democratic presidents .
that is 100 % right .
is economists right ?
new haven – since the global financial crisis of 2007-2009 and recession , criticism of the economics profession has intensified .
only a few professional economists foresaw the looming crisis – and the fallout from the crisis continues to be a major contributing factor in the economics profession .
what if economists can not foresee events that are so important to human wellbeing ?
to be sure , economics failed to anticipate most of the major crises of the last century , including the 大崩盘 of the 大崩盘 , 1980-82 recessions , and the worst of the 1929 stock-market crash .
the news coverage of the year before these recessions was explored , i found that there was virtually no warning of a serious crisis from economists .
instead , newspapers emphasize the views of corporate executives or politicians , who are always optimistic .
the closest to real warning is the 1980-82 recession .
in 1979 , us federal reserve chairman paul volcker told the us congress that the us faced “ disturbing economic conditions , ” and “ need to make tough decisions and make a tough decision , if necessary , to make a sacrifices . ”
the fed is likely to have to take drastic measures to contain high inflation , and , in the aftermath of the 1979 oil crisis , the major recession is taking place .
nonetheless , during all of the crisis during the last century , economists ’ broad agreement was not a crisis .
for my discovery , few economists – even a giant like keynes , friedrich hayek , and fisher – have publicly predicted that the depression was in the offing .
as the historian douglas irving ’ s record is , a remarkable surprise is that swedish economist 卡塞尔 卡塞尔 , in a series of lectures in 1928 , warned of “ a worldwide depression . ”
but his technical 讨论 ( focused on monetary economics and the gold standard ) did not constitute a new consensus among economists , and the news media have completely failed to warn of stories of depression .
interestingly , there is no evidence in contemporary news record that public anger against economists after disaster struck in 1929 .
so , why did the recent crisis make the economics profession so different ?
why did this time – unlike previous forecasting failures – giving economists so much mistrust ?
one reason may be the perception that many economists are smugly promoting “ efficient markets hypothesis ” – a theory that excludes the possibility of a collapse in asset prices .
the market , they argue , is always the most concise of the news , ignoring warnings from a few 凡人 and 凡人 about the overheating of stock markets and housing prices .
following the collapse of two markets , the economics profession ’ s credibility was directly hit .
we do not blame doctors for failing to predict all diseases .
most of our cases are random , even if our doctors can not tell us what we are in the next few years , or that we can not eliminate all our suffering when we are sick , but we are happy to accept the help they offer .
likewise , most economists are committed to problems , not building consensus on stock markets or unemployment .
we should thank their work .
as robert litan of the brookings institution pointed out in his new book , the us dollar economist , the economics profession “ creates trillions of dollars in income and wealth for the rest of the world . ”
that sounds like a pretty decent contribution , especially if we do some simple arithmetic .
the us association , for example , is now elected only 20,000 members ; if they created , say , $ 2 trillion in revenue and wealth , the equivalent of $ 100 million per economist is created .
skeptics might ask , “ why aren ’ t they the richest people ? ”
the answer is simple : most economic ideas are public goods that can not be patented or treated by the inventor .
most economists do not mean that they did not make many people richer .
what litan ’ s book is interesting is that he reveals many fascinating little ideas about how to run business or manage the country .
they exist in areas such as optimal pricing and marketing mechanisms , monopolies , natural-resource management , public goods , and development .
none of this is worth a trillion dollars , but litan ’ s conclusion is compelling .
in 2010 , the “ economics of things , ” the economics of 学好 , emphasized the impact of these innovations on the real-world effects : carbon trading , earned income ( earned ) , lower trade tariffs , 工作 , and 延迟 , 使用 , and 延迟 .
the innovations described in litan ’ s and 西格 ’ s books suggest that the economics profession has produced a great deal of valuable work , characterized by a genuine effort to provide real evidence .
yes , most economists fail to foresee the financial crisis – just as doctors did not predict disease .
but , like doctors , they have made life much better for all .
a referendum for kurdistan ?
the assassination of the head of iraq ’ s governing council makes clear that the us failed to establish the minimum legal and order needed to transfer power to power on june 30 .
just two months ago , when a number of iraqi unelected officials signed a constitutional document , they were greeted by the announcement of the 时刻 constitution of philadelphia in 1787 .
it is clear that this piece of paper is worthless .
in the face of serious violence seen in falluja or 纳杰夫 , no imposed constitution can help the coalition , however distasteful it seems .
but the kurdish kurdish zone in northern iraq has been completely different . over the last decade , the protection of a no-fly zone , especially after saddam hussein was overthrown , has succeeded in establishing and maintaining a 政府 government .
they overcome ethnic and partisan differences , and have done very well in areas such as education , irrigation , and construction , and , above all , the kurdish government has avoided violence .
confronted with the collapse of the rest of the arab world , one must ask the question : the us-led coalition is not a referendum on the kurdish region , asking the government what kind of government they want .
in any case , the kurds have the right to determine their fate , according to any internationally accepted standard .
historically , while the kurds have much to do with arabs in terms of language , culture , and history , they have never been able to have a say in court .
after a great war and the fall of the ottoman empire , a victorious coalition promised them to establish their own countries – a pledge that was shameful about the interests of britain ’ s imperial empire .
since then , kurds have suffered under a hostile ethnic rule .
the same is true of the rest of iraq : the united states is convincing the un to transfer power to legitimate iraqi government , but the chances of obtaining a de facto mandate are paltry , with no party in iraq .
why are they punished for the kurdish people ’ s legitimate government , and did not participate in murder , attack mosques , and suicide bombing for schoolchildren ?
moreover , turkey opposes the kurdish referendum , and iran and syria do not favor granting kurdish autonomy .
but if a universal standard of human rights is carried out from the universal standards of human rights , what is the right to determine the country ’ s internal development ?
after all , no one acknowledges the principle of israel ’ s opposition to palestine in the west bank and gaza .
so should attitudes toward turkey .
if turkey gives domestic kurdish minorities more cultural and linguistic rights , allowing kurdish political rights to exist in turkey ’ s parliament , it would reduce the willingness of turkey ’ s kurds to oppose ankara .
in the nineteenth century , the common interest of the authoritarian russia , germany , and austria prevented the eventual birth of free poland : such unholy alliances will place no place in the twenty-first century .
the recent referendum on the cyprus future , supported by the united nations , is in the island ’ s greek and turkish neighborhoods .
the outcome of the referendum is paradoxical , and it is not in the early stages of the referendum ’ s sponsors : the collective right to decide the future was recognized .
why not in iraqi kurdistan ?
in order to calm political anger and take pride in international rules , any plebiscite in the kurdish region initially may be the reference point .
but this would give legitimate expression of legitimate rights to people who have long been oppressed , with the right to place a place in the sun .
such a referendum could also agree on a sunni-shia agreement between iraq and shia in iraq , and it is seen as a violent violence .
perhaps they will recognize the negative effects of violence and the subsequent penalties , beginning with the kurds ’ example of stopping violence .
even if iraq ’ s unity fails , the injustice suffered by the kurds for generations will be changed .
obama confronts a referendum
stanford – successful political candidates always try to implement the proposed policy proposals .
in 2009 , president barack obama and the democrats controlled the house and the house of representatives ( 压 ) in the senate , and they do .
obama and his congressional allies signed $ 800 billion in “ stimulus bill ” – a program that is filled with programs that benefit democrats , such as environmentalists and civil servants , with universal coverage but rather unpopular health-care reforms ( which will be a long time in the federal government ) ; and it has taken a new , 监管 approach to the economy .
the last time that the last time the policy shifts in such a large policy shift was 1980 , president ronald reagan overhauled tax , spending , and regulatory policy , and supported the fed ’ s anti-inflation stance .
the 1988 , 1992 , and 2000 elections were also followed by policy , but it is far from being compared to 1980 and 2008 .
the us betrayed obama ’ s sudden departure from the democrats and the democrats , in 2010 the republican party won a historic victory in congressional elections .
many republicans have since been disappointed by the failure of the house to roll back obama ’ s policy proposals .
but the us political system is intent on making matters easier to accomplish .
if you control only half of the federal government or one-third of it , there is much to be done .
the 2012 election will be a referendum on obama ’ s policies and performance .
the economy is slowly improving , but it remains weak , unemployment remains high , and millions have already exited the labor market .
the republicans may continue to control the house , and will get a majority in the senate .
romney , for example , has proposed a detailed economic plan for 59 content , including limiting federal spending to 20 % of gdp ( a requirement similar to spending cuts in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s ) .
gingrich and the other republicans are more aggressive than romney ’ s plan for cutting taxes and the size of the government .
ultimately , the republican party ’ s nominee will be wise to consolidate its opponents ’ good ideas , and bolster his own camp .
if republicans win and control the house and senate in the election , they could sharply cut , repeal , and reverse many of obama ’ s initiatives , enact tax and entitlement reforms , and adopt more disciplined fiscal policies .
most important in romney ’ s plan , the top priority is to cut corporate taxes from 35 % to 25 % , the oecd ’ s average rate of tax cuts , which would significantly improve us multinational firms ’ competitiveness .
the republican victory will also lead to a massive opening of us energy exploration , which obama is resisting .
romney has also promised a tougher negotiation with both trade and currency issues , but , overall , the republicans are more likely to reach a new trade agreement with china than obama ’ s administration in supporting the us labor force .
if the democrats retain control of the senate , however , the republican party will make it much more difficult to accomplish this .
the republican presidency also appoints many key 决策性 posts , such as the fed chairman , treasury secretary , and the head of the regulators .
if obama is reelected , the republican party ’ s control of the house and senate will fail , at least for the next two years , with obama facing policy negotiations and 扯皮 .
if that happens , the republican policy center will shift to the senate spokesman john boehner , the chairman of the house budget committee , the house majority leader , eric 康托 , and the senate , including 卫 , kevin breivik , kevin mccarthy , and part of the senate .
in any case , obama will surely turn to the political center ( as bill clinton did after the democrats lost control of congress in 1994 ) , with the republicans in congress proposing sensible tax and entitlement reforms .
but this seems unlikely : since the democratic party ’ s defeat in 2010 , obama has distanced himself from the left , adopting a more populist stance .
whatever the outcome of this year ’ s election and congressional elections , several republican governors will be highly supportive .
they – including mitch daniels in indiana , chris christie in new jersey , and bob 克里斯蒂 in virginia and bob w. bush in florida , and former governor jeb bush in florida – are likely to be the democratic party ’ s rival in 2016 if obama wins in november 2016 .
supreme court justice louis brandeis famously observed that states are “ laboratories , ” a test of policy effectiveness .
for example , clinton and the republican congress in 1996 were based on policies that first came first , based on wisconsin governor rudy thompson , and then successfully emulated by new york city mayor rudy giuliani .
today , the republican governor offers similar innovative state-level solutions ( including spending , debt , and pensions ) , as a model for national reference .
until november , divided governments and disparate campaigning will presumably block major policy moves .
but , after the election , tax and spending policies , trade policy , federalism , regulation , and defense policy all have a major impact ( depending on who will prevail , depending on who wins ) , and the fiscal position of the us , the balance of payments , and other parts of the world ( the us and the rest of the world ) .
is foreign investors welcome ?
over the last 20 years , the world has experienced rapid growth in fdi , from $ 40 billion in the 1980s to $ 900 billion last year .
the cumulative sum of fdi is already close to $ 10 trillion , making it the most important way to deliver goods and services to foreign markets : sales of foreign branches roughly $ 19 trillion , compared to just $ 11 trillion in exports .
at the same time , the liberalization of fdi in almost every country has become a driving force for corporate trade – a direct investment in the emerging international manufacturing system , which accounts for one-third of world trade .
but is this golden age over ?
fdi can bring a range of benefits , but it can also pay the price .
in the 1970 ’ s , international multinationals , which direct investment abroad , had just noted that the costs of direct foreign investment exceeded its benefits , and thus took control of foreign investment .
in the 1980 ’ s , the pendulum began to swing in the advanced countries , guided by the balance of direct foreign investment .
foreign direct investment , which was previously considered the problem , is slowly becoming a driver of economic growth and social development .
according to reports from the united nations conference on trade and development , the number of 156 changes occurred between 1991 and 2004 , and 93 % were in the direction of creating a more favorable investment environment for multinational companies .
but now we are facing a real risk of rebalancing once again , leading to a reversal of the liberalization process .
direct foreign investment in the advanced countries ( and also in emerging markets ) often takes a form of cross-border mergers ( m & a ’ s ) .
resistance to such mergers is increasingly common when it comes to domestic firms that are perceived by politicians as “ national leaders , ” or for national security , economic , development , and cultural peculiarities .
the increasing involvement of private assets in mergers and acquisitions is likely to fuel further controversy , as such deals are often considered purely speculative .
in the name of “ economic patriotism , ” security , and other minorities , a growing number of countries will resist the acquisition of their own laws .
the us senate committee , for example , recently attempted to block legal provisions for relaxing foreign investment restrictions on airlines , but it has just been reinforced by the european project ’ s restrictive enforcement laws .
moreover , when it comes to censorship of foreign companies , governments have become more muddled in implementing existing regulations .
these emerging markets have become a “ new player on the economic stage , ” owing to the rise of protective action by emerging-market multinational multinational corporations .
established multinational companies and their sources of origin need to adjust to the challenge of new powers , and to adapt to the changes brought about by the world market .
as we know in many cases , it is not easy to adapt to new changes : as long as the analogy between france and the united states and the united states is to merge chevron or 米塔尔 , it is clear that this is all too clear .
once the development of the offshoring of services accelerates , another form of protective action is likely to begin to emerge – a time when fdi will be challenged .
all signs suggest that offshoring has reached a tipping point , with further offshoring of foreign investment .
if foreign countries are not pressing for appropriate regulatory mechanisms to meet the rapidly rising challenges of working in the service of services , the backlash against this outward foreign investment will become inevitable .
the unease raised by fdi is now largely confined to developed countries .
but there are signs that this concern is spreading to emerging markets .
particularly when it comes to big projects , some host countries are asking questions about their relationships with multinational corporations , and the host government is censoring these contracts , owing to their belief ( whether they are wrong ) that they are not treated properly .
around two-thirds of the international arbitration cases involved in the known 219 involve international arbitration cases , which have been proposed over the last three years .
dealing with fdi has changed , and the future may be changing again , depending on how the government views the balance between costs and benefits .
this balance involves not only economic factors , but also a strong desire to maintain national security and control of their economies .
to this end , the concept of “ twenty-first century , ” proposed by ollanta humala , peru ’ s presidential candidate , is reminiscent of the “ economic patriotism ” of french prime minister dominique de villepin .
a conservative attitude toward fdi ( as in any foreign affairs ) is widespread in all countries , and politicians can make such conservative sentiments the result of protectionism .
nonetheless , it would be ironic if the advanced countries , led by the past 20 years , have led the way to liberalize fdi by leading fdi movements .
let us hope that the anti-globalization backlash in developed countries could be effective in the way that the rest of the world is to be effective , avoiding the consequences that we all want .
hope for america
new york – in the midst of a fiercely elected election – spending more than $ 2 billion in total spending – many observers believe that us politics has not changed much : obama remains president , the republicans still hold a majority in the house .
is the us facing a “ fiscal cliff ” – automatic tax increases from 2013 to spending cuts , which will most likely tip the economy into recession unless there is bipartisan agreement on an alternative fiscal solution , and a much worse political stalemate ?
in fact , the general election has produced many beneficial factors – except to prove that unbridled corporate money can not buy elections , and that the demographic shift in the us has been handed down by the republican population .
the republicans ’ explicit request to deprive some states of voting rights – for example , in pennsylvania , who had managed to increase african and latino americans – backfired : voters threatened by the threat of suffrage were forced to step back .
some of mitt romney ’ s advisers have been stymied by obama ’ s victory : wasn ’ t the election ?
they confidently believe that the us would forget that the republican party ’ s passion for deregulation pushed the us economy into the brink of ruin , and that voters will not notice that the republicans ’ intransigence in congress has made it more effective in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis .
voters , they argue , will focus only on the current economic malaise .
the republicans should not ignore americans ’ obsession with denying issues like disenfranchisement and gender equality .
these issues hit the us value of values – the boundaries of democracy , the boundaries of government intervention individuals , and , in many cases , economic issues .
as i argue in the price of inequality , a large part of the us economy ’ s economic inequality can be attributed to the rich ’ s impact on government , and to use it to shore up their rich wealth .
clearly , issues like reproductive rights and gay marriage have an important economic impact .
after considering the economic policy of the next four years , the main reason for the election is that the us avoided the possibility that it could push it toward a recession , aggravate inequality , and make millions of americans more difficult to secure .
beyond that , the americans should hope to improve the fiscal position in america ’ s fiscal position by stimulating the “ employment ” bill , which promotes economic , economic growth , and a strong “ employment ” bill that would reduce unemployment , restore growth , and create much more than costs .
americans might also hope to have a housing plan that ultimately addresses america ’ s foreclosure crisis .
equally necessary , there must be a comprehensive plan to increase economic opportunities and reduce inequality , which should aim for the next decade to be the most unequal and socially liquid countries in the developed world .
this means that a more progressive tax system , including not limited to all , would be able to pay a lower tax rate that would enable speculators to work less effectively than they work to earn a working living , thereby allowing the rich to use the cayman tax system to avoid paying a reasonable tax burden .
the us and the world can benefit from increasing domestic production by increasing domestic production and reducing reliance on imports by reducing consumption , and that it should benefit the us and the world .
moreover , america ’ s technological policy must reflect the recognition that its long-term living standards depend on productivity growth , while productivity growth reflects a technological advance based on solid research .
finally , the us needs a financial system that serves society , not as it seems to be in itself .
this means that the financial system ’ s center should shift from speculative and proprietary trading to borrowing and job creation , which requires regulation and adequate reinforcement of financial-sector regulation , antitrust , and corporate governance , in order to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos .
globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation .
we may hope that the us can be reformed on the global financial system by supporting tougher international regulations , the global reserve system , and a better restructuring of sovereign debt , and more leadership in international economic institutions , as well as providing assistance to poor countries .
americans should hope for all of this , though i am not optimistic about how far the us will be able to muddle through – an end to the bush-era tax cuts for students and homeowners , but not on a comprehensive , across-the-board tax reform , but no major progress on global warming .
the euro crisis may persist , so america ’ s continued malaise is hardly good for global growth .
worse still , without strong leadership from the us , long-term global problems – from climate change to the international monetary system needed to reform – will continue .
still , we should be grateful : it is not a mistake to go further .
is home prices a house of cards ?
the big cities boom began in london in 1996 , when boom psychology went to los angeles , new york , and sydney to los angeles in 1997 , to miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2002 .
these and its cities have since boomed , with prices rising from at least 50 % in 2000 .
this is a big windfall for homeowners , but it is bad for those who are planned .
the rise in home prices in some of these cities is now weakening , and the price increase in london and new york has fallen sharply over the past year , with real increases in real terms in the second quarter of 2004 .
in sydney , house prices actually fell in the second quarter .
is the boom booming ?
nobody foresaw this boom in advance , so predicting it will be full of risks .
housing prices have shown strong upward momentum in the face of warnings that the party is about to end .
if the boom is to be predicted , it is important to understand why it is happening in so many cities .
surprisingly , there is no universally accepted explanation for this question , because the boom is ultimately more psychological .
economists would rather talk about interest rates or unemployment statistics as specific and knowable factors .
these indicators , of course , have a role to play in explaining housing markets , but it is not enough to explain the recent boom .
there are three psychological traits : first , in a changing world economy , understanding the source of value in the world economy is strong ; second , the public ’ s sense of `` charismatic '' cities has strong confidence ; and , third , speculative bubbles have 眼花缭乱 .
we need to understand all these factors more deeply if we are to understand current conditions for housing markets and discern future price trends .
first , the world economy seems to be more chaotic than it was a decade ago .
since the devastating fall in asset prices in most countries in 2000 , financial assets no longer give the previous sense of security , spurring the real-estate sector to `` pursue the quality of the quality . ''
moreover , terrorism is a problem for everyone today , with a series of tragedies in indonesia , spain , and russia .
people are found to be investing in the safest , without worrying about the risks that are uncertain .
the upward trend in home prices is thus accompanied by panic , showing strong momentum .
second , as the internet and mobile phones come to light , global communications have grown at an explosive pace , and public perceptions of charismatic cosmopolitan cities are growing .
just as people are increasingly admired for international celebrities , they also believe that the world ’ s 家喻户晓 centers of commerce , the world ’ s leading commercial centers , technology centers , and cultural centers are uniquely valuable .
with fear of terrorism , and skepticism about volatile asset prices , these cities ’ geographic watches are converging , and the more famous they are in new york , paris , and london .
third , the speculative contagion that led to this economic bubble is also an important factor .
when the rising price inflated the economic excitement , and thereby pushing for higher prices in the city , other cities , and even on the other side of the hemisphere , the current boom is seen in markets and markets .
the shanghai people may not talk about london ’ s house prices , but shanghai ’ s observers know what is happening in london , and london ’ s rising house prices seem to have made the shanghai housing boom look plausible and appropriate .
in contrast to the other two psychological causes , speculative contagion is akin to a single day .
given that speculative bubbles maintain their lives by responding to price increases , it will not survive forever .
so what is the answer ?
two psychological reasons are suggesting that strong upward momentum in home prices will continue , and the third reason is that this trend will eventually end , but it does not specify when it is .
i believe that some high-flying glamour cities will continue to witness rising home prices and eventually decline .
historically , house prices have shown their strong momentum , and home prices in all of these cities continue to rise rapidly , even as they are slower than in a year or more .
from this trend , home prices in most of these cities will continue to rise in a year or more for more than a year .
a year later , when momentum no longer plays an important role , psychology is more important for long-term forecasts .
and now that enthusiasm for investment in real estate is likely to decline as the housing price declines , prices could fall downward .
in the next recession , or when local economies are hit seriously , housing prices are likely to fall sharply in large cities .
is humanity better ?
melbourne – watching headlines about war , terrorism , and the brutal government of the brutal government , the 宗教 of religious leaders lamented that the standard of behavior in public and private behavior is fading , which is easily the impression that we are living in an age of moral collapse .
but there is reason to be optimistic about our future .
i wrote a book that i wrote three decades ago , when we wrote that , historically , we have been engaged in an array of different circles of moral thought , beginning with the tribe , and then by ethnic or ethnic groups , and then to 全人类 organisms .
and that is a moral advance .
we may think that evolution leads to the kind of individual – and their kin – that can be screened for their own interests – and the genes that are more likely to carry them out .
but , as i pointed out at the time , the development of reason will put us in a different direction .
for one thing , the ability to think rationally gives us a clear evolutionary advantage , which allows us to solve and plan to circumvent risks , thereby raising the likelihood of survival .
but reason is not just a neutral problem , but more like an escalator : once it has , we can be sent to where we have never reached .
in particular , reason can enable us to find things similar to that of other things that we have seen in our own moral context .
thus , excluding them from the realm of moral considerations that we should be morally reprehensible , or simply wrong .
steven pinker recently published a good better angels of our nature , a view that harvard psychology professor drew from the recent study of history , psychology , cognitive science , economics , and sociology , and , more often than ever , we have seen that our era has been less violent than ever before .
in households , neighborhoods , tribes , and states have reduced violence .
in fact , today ’ s people are less likely to be killed by violence than their predecessors , or the violence or brutality imposed by others .
many will doubt that .
some believe that a simpler and more peaceful life in the past seems to be more peaceful and similar to their current lives .
but by detecting 骨骼 sites from sites sites sites sites sites , we found that 15 % of the population ’ s historical population has been killed by violence against others ( by contrast , in the first half of the twentieth century , in the first half of the twentieth century ) .
even those who have been praised as “ moderate ” tribal groups – such as malaysia ’ s sirleaf , who bought the 坤 desert ( Semai ) – and live in the middle of the arctic heartland – are at the same level as the population of detroit – with the highest murder rate in the united states – one of the highest rates in the us .
pinker agreed that reason is an important factor underpinning the trends that underpin him .
in order to support this view , he quotes the “ flynn effect ” – a major finding of the philosopher james flynn ’ s first major discovery since iq tests first been tested .
average iq values should be 100 , but , in order to achieve this outcome , raw 测试数据 must be standardized .
and if today ’ s 青少年 young people were tested in 1910 , he would be able to get 130 more than 98 % of the 受测者 .
we can not easily attribute the increase to the level of educational attainment , because the test of the test of the test does not require a good vocabulary or even mathematical capacity , but an evaluation of the capabilities of the 抽象思维 .
another theory of higher intelligence scores suggests that this is because we are in a more symbol-rich environment .
而弗林 himself believes that the spread of scientific reasoning has played a role .
pinker argues that improved reasoning capacity gives us the ability to separate ourselves from our current experience and the separation of views that individuals have become more abstract .
this , too , has led to a better moral commitment , including avoidance of violence .
and that reasoning was improved in the twentieth century .
so there is reason to believe that improved reasoning capacity enables us to avoid the influence of our nature , and that is precisely the result of violence .
if so , there is no denying that we will continue to face many serious problems , including the threat of catastrophic climate change .
even so , there is reason to expect more moral progress .
is humans worse than chernobyl ?
朴茨茅斯 – nearly three decades after the nuclear accident , the nuclear accident has been nearly three decades old , and the scientific community is still debating the impact of radiation around the reactor .
not long ago , i and other scientists studied the animals of human exclusion around the nuclear power plant .
as a result , the consequences of human habitation seem to be worse than the impact of radiation on animals .
such an outcome can not be avoided by reminding people : human beings ’ simple activities are worse than the worst environmental catastrophe of the twenty-first century .
we studied animals of animals in the near two square kilometers ( 85 square kilometers ) of belarus ’ s “ 波萊谢 , ” “ 波萊谢 . ”
before the disaster , there were 22,000 people in the region , with 92 villages in 92 villages mainly developing and forest resources .
a few days later , the government had evacuated its residents and farmed animals to protect them from high doses of radiation .
although radiation levels fell by almost 100 times a few months after the accident , the region was still judged to be unfit for human habitation .
few reported the accident ’ s impact on wild animals , but we know that some hot spots have died in trees and wildlife .
some might think that nearly 30 years later , the site is still a 荒芜 region , and occasionally a generation of chronic radiation and genetic impairment .
the reality is very different .
indeed , just a few years after the accident , the abandoned regional data collected by 科学家 scientists in belarus have shown that the number of wild boar , 麋鹿 , and 狍子 has increased significantly .
moreover , the region ’ s wildlife number increased over time , owing to the use of facilities that humans abandoned .
crops , gardens , and orchards provide abundant food .
abandoned houses and 农舍 provided ready-made 窝巢 .
by 1993 , the number of wild boar had increased sixfold , but then by about three times since the outbreak of the disease and the growing wolf population .
our research shows that the number of large mammals in chernobyl is comparable to that of 污染 reserves in belarus – except for wolf , where the wolves live in the site of the reactor .
the region has also found the region even 几头 .
moreover , there is no link between radiation levels and mammals ; the number of mammals and pollution in the most contaminated regions is at least as high as it is anywhere else .
to be sure , the chernobyl region ’ s animal boom does not represent radiation for wildlife .
radiation does cause dna damage , and , so far , the effects of individual animals are not entirely excluded .
but the contrast with the affected regions is instructive .
whatever the damage caused by radiation , human habitation is less than human habitation .
in fact , in the exclusion of the human exclusion zone and the natural nature of the natural market , the country ’ s major socioeconomic changes have fueled a dramatic reduction in rural poverty and wild boar .
the lesson of the chernobyl disaster is that there must be space for nature to thrive .
the main reason for declining global biodiversity is the habitat of human activity and fragmentation .
for example , people are cutting demand for biofuels .
we may be using high-tech – even genetically modified – agriculture to meet human food needs with smaller land , leaving more space for wildlife .
there is no simple solution , of course , and the world ’ s population will complicate any effort to address it .
but one thing is clear : as a species , we must think carefully about the impact of the anthropogenic animal species , and thus better shape our economic and environmental policies .
violence and innovation
abu dhabi – in the 1949 british film , the third man , harry 莱姆 observed that , in the midst of the renaissance , the country had “ war , terror , murder , and bloodshed . ”
but it produced michelangelo , 达芬奇 , and renaissance .
and , by contrast , the swiss , with 500 years of democracy and peace , has said nothing of the clock .
the implication is that innovation and creativity can be seen only as extreme – indeed , in switzerland – as one of the world ’ s innovative leaders .
although peace , order , and political stability are widely regarded as essential prerequisites for invention , entrepreneurship , and economic development , this rule has many exceptions – especially in terms of creativity and innovation .
the us has been on the top of the world ’ s top ten global innovation index , including the global innovation index .
but , in the global peace index , it ranked only 88 countries .
similarly , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank fifth and sixth in the innovation index , but are ranked at 28 and 29 .
instead , bhutan is one of the 20 most peaceful countries , but it is on the hook in the innovation index .
of course , crime , terrorism , conflict , and severe political instability that led to a comprehensive breakdown of law and order would impede creativity and innovation considerably .
but some countries show strong resilience against large-scale violence and instability .
for example , mexico and south africa have widespread violent crime , but they are at the top ( measured in terms of patent filing and 注册商标 ) .
to consider terrorism indicators , lebanon , turkey , jordan , and israel are the most resilient innovators .
just as peace and stability do not always lead to creativity and innovation , wars and uncertainties do not always impede creativity and innovation .
though peace , political stability , and a civilized order are important considerations for the operation of large-scale foreign production and services , these factors are much less important in providing creativity and related investments .
in particular , innovative industries such as animation , art , design , and software – mostly based on personal competence and talent – are more resilient to conflict .
officials , investors , and business leaders seeking revolutionary ideas , cutting-edge solutions , and the development of talent for talent should not be overly influenced by some social unrest or the tranquility of others .
in fact , fixing the zone ’ s comfort zone would have significant benefits .
there is evidence that large-scale uncertainty can spur competition , thereby sparking innovation .
moreover , societies with low levels of consensus and more violent violence may be more likely to catalyze fundamental innovation than a harmonious society .
lebanon ’ s experience supports this assertion .
despite its long-standing political instability , its creative industries are expanding .
the 世界知识产权组织 in lebanon in 2007 , based on 版权 industries , showed that the main challenges facing lebanon ’ s 软件业 – an important part of its economy – include limited markets , competitive competition , a brain drain ( the loss of human capital ) , inadequate government incentives , and widespread piracy .
violence is completely absent from the list of challenges .
but countries like lebanon are vulnerable to violence – for example , through creative industries – to reduce their negative impact on economic , social , and intellectual development .
in 2005 , 10 % of lebanon ’ s new businesses were creative industries , and 产业 industries contributed 4.75 % of gdp .
likewise , despite extremely volatile politics , nigeria produces more than 1,000 films annually .
indeed , nigeria ’ s film is already the world ’ s third largest , behind the us and india , second to the country ’ s economic influence , after the oil sector .
according to the 2010 united nations ’ innovative economy report , global trade in creative goods grew at a rate of 14 % per year .
at the same time , innovative goods exports from developing countries – which are more violent – grew at an annual rate of 13.5 % , with total exports totaling $ 275 billion ( 43 % of the world ’ s creative industries ) in 2008 .
though global trade fell by 12 % in the same year , trade in creative products and services is widening .
this has a huge impact on political and business leaders – especially in turbulent areas like the middle east .
in order to boost economic growth and innovation amid conflict and instability , policymakers and investors should heed the creation of innovative industries .
the resilience and adaptability of innovative industries will be critical to supporting long-term economic growth and job creation .
is services new ?
princeton – the recent global debate about growth in the developing world has changed dramatically .
the hype and excitement of the rapid catch-up of the advanced economies in recent years has been missing .
few serious analysts still believe that the dramatic economic convergence that asian countries experienced , and the less dramatic convergence that most latin american and african countries experienced in the coming decades , will continue to exist in the coming decades .
the low interest rates , high commodity prices , rapid globalization , and the post-cold war stability of the cold war are unlikely to persist .
the second realization is that developing countries need a new growth model .
the problem is not only that they need to escape from the vagaries of fickle capital inflows and commodity booms that are often vulnerable to shocks and crises .
more important , the best path to riches in history – export-oriented industrialization – is likely to come to an end .
since the industrial revolution , manufacturing has been a recipe for rapid economic growth .
countries like germany , the united states , and japan , which eventually catch up to the uk , are all built through their manufacturing industries .
two rapid economic convergence emerged after world war ii : the european periphery in the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s ; the rest of east asia has since the 1960s .
both economic convergence is based on industrial manufacturing .
china , which became the poster child for this growth strategy since the 1970 ’ s , was also headed for this approach .
but manufacturing today is not previously manufacturing .
today ’ s manufacturing capital is far more capital-intensive and skill-intensive , so the potential to absorb a large number of rural labor has narrowed considerably .
global supply chains have facilitated access to manufacturing , but they also reduce the benefits of domestic value-added accumulation .
thanks to changes in demand and environmental concerns , many traditional industries , such as textiles and steel , may face shrinking global markets and overcapacity .
one downside of china ’ s success is that many other countries are struggling to build more than a niche of manufacturing .
as a result , developing countries began to industrialize , with services relying on services – a phenomenon that i call premature de-industrialization .
services account for much of the developing world ’ s gdp , even in low-income countries that traditionally rely heavily on agricultural contributions .
young workers who leave the farm to cities are increasingly absorbed by urban services rather than manufacturing jobs .
international trade expansion is also growing faster than trade .
the world bank ’ s 加尼 and stephen o ’ rourke are optimistic , and , in the latest paper , they argue that services can become an escalator to growth , and that the manufacturing sector has traditionally played its role .
in particular , they argue that services have exhibited “ unconditional convergence ” in productivity .
that is , labor productivity in countries where labor productivity is falling is the most productive .
this is very good news , but there is reason to be cautious .
the 加尼 ’ s evidence includes the data that began in the early 1990 ’ s , when developing countries were experiencing economy-wide convergence , driven by historically historic capital inflows and commodity booms .
it is unclear whether their conclusions extend to other times .
two factors determine the difference between services and manufacturing .
first , while some segments of the services sector are tradable , and increasingly important in global commerce , these areas are highly skill-intensive , with little ordinary workers .
banks , finance , insurance , and other business services , as well as information and communications technology industries , are a high-tech industry .
they can play the role of growth escalators in economies where labor is adequately trained .
but developing economies tend to be predominantly low-skilled labor .
in these economies , tradable services can not absorb much labor supply .
that is why , despite the success of india ’ s information and communications technology sector , it is not the main driver of economic growth .
by contrast , traditional manufacturing can provide a large number of jobs that have just emerged from the manufacturing sector , where productivity is high than in agriculture .
in today ’ s developing countries , most of the excess labor force is absorbed by non-tradable services such as retail trade and domestic households , where productivity levels are low .
in principle , many of these activities can benefit from more advanced technologies , improved organizations , and more formalization .
but here , the second difference between services and manufacturing comes out .
partial productivity gains in non-tradable activities will eventually limit themselves , because the activities of individual services can not be extended without restricting their trade ’ s adverse terms of trade – that is , holding down their prices ( and profit ) .
in manufacturing , small countries can thrive with a few export successes and diversification to thrive – first 衬衫 , then assemble their televisions and microwave ovens , and finally move to the skills and value chains .
on the contrary , in manufacturing , the market is constrained by domestic demand , and continued success requires complementary productivity gains in the rest of the economy .
focusing on a few sectors can not generate rapid prosperity .
thus , growth has to rely on a much slower pace of economic capacity – the accumulation of human capital and institutions .
as a result , i doubt that a services-led model can deliver rapid growth and good jobs for the manufacturing sector .
even if the techno-optimists are right , it is difficult to see whether this will enable developing countries to sustain rapid growth in the last few decades .
“ reset ” relations with europe ’ s backyard
stockholm – the “ reset ” button for diplomatic relations in the united states is a popular fashion today .
although the relationship between the eu and its eastern neighbors has not yet been strained by the need for “ reset , ” a deep strategic reconstruction is quietly being pursued .
the eu ’ s launch of a new “ eastern partnership ” in may is intended to facilitate further integration with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine .
in the context of the global financial crisis , it is urgently needed to update , and more powerful , policies in eastern europe ’ s eastern neighborhood .
equally important , all relevant countries have expressed their desire to move closer to the eu .
the eastern partnership ’ s initiative stems from a 联合行动 joint operation , which invited six countries to deepen and strengthen cooperation with the eu in key areas .
in trade and economic relations , it clearly establishes the goal of establishing a comprehensive free-trade area between the eu and its partners .
it is committed to achieving a comprehensive visa liberalization ( while also offering visas to promote agreement ) , promising to strengthen cooperation on energy security , diversification , and efficiency , and develop plans and programs to help the eastern part of the east ’ s eastern neighborhood .
sweden ’ s presidency this month , as the eu ’ s rotating president , helped drive it .
but at a time when the eu ’ s eastern neighbors face serious challenges , many partners have been hit hard by financial and economic crises .
the sharp drop in global demand and trade has severely undermined ukraine ’ s steel industry .
georgia ’ s economic success is largely attributable to direct fdi , but direct foreign investment today has no appetite for further investment .
with a relatively low partner in the global market , such as moldova , the crisis is relatively slow , but it may be as bad as it may be .
the eastern partnership does not quickly fill the consequences of the crisis .
but it can provide a political framework and institutional support to improve the vulnerability of these countries ’ vulnerability to the crisis : incomplete market economies , weak national institutions , and sustained corruption .
the eastern partnership ’ s proposal for deeper integration with the eu in areas like trade and energy has been accompanied by a significant transformation .
most partners are also experiencing a political crisis .
in most countries , democratic development has not yet reached the level of the usual components of a political life that can be silenced without endangering the state .
democratic values , human rights , and the rule of law are built on the eastern partnership .
political integration with the eu , together with the integration process under the partnership , will drive reforms in these critical areas .
sweden ’ s rotating presidency , the european union ’ s rotating presidency , will begin to work – the basic component of the partnership .
a “ comprehensive institution-building program ” aimed at supporting key institutional reforms of each partner should be launched before the end of the year .
some flagship initiatives in the european commission will eventually come to light , and it may be possible to develop new projects and programs .
sweden will pay special attention to energy efficiency , because such programs would not only improve energy security , reduce costs , and contribute to the fight against climate change .
along with the european commission , sweden and the european commission , together with the european commission , seek the first meeting of the eastern partnership for democracy in the east this year .
we want to launch parliamentary cooperation , as well as cooperation between local and regional authorities in the eu and its partners .
by the end of this year , the foreign ministers of the european union and six partners will review progress in the past , and to guide future actions further .
the eastern partnership is aimed at fostering eu integration , allowing six countries closer to the eu ’ s values , law , and way of work , and to support and assist the eu .
russia sometimes sees such a perspective , arguing that this partnership is against it .
but this , of course , is unfounded .
the eastern partnership can not solve all of the problems and difficulties facing the six partners .
but it does represent a clear commitment from the eu to support its transition and reform – a process that deserves prosperity and stability throughout the region .
is the saudis fanatics ?
terrorist attacks have not only raised doubts about the saudi government ’ s survival prospects , but also the idea that the kingdom is dysfunctional , as a destructive state .
the persistence of violent fanaticism seems to be spreading in saudi society , which is rooted in extreme orthodoxy .
the fact that 15 of the 19 hijackers in the us in september 11 , 2001 , hit the us , made it clear that the kingdom is a bastion of authoritarianism and extreme opinion .
to some extent , this view is wrong , but it is not appropriate to describe the broad saudi public .
on the contrary , it would be a grave mistake to assume that islamism defines the full implications of saudi religious attitudes .
between 2001 and 2003 , i was a member of the group , a broad survey of values in saudi arabia , egypt , iran , and jordan .
the results show that the saudis have a big difference between view and the conventional wisdom .
compared to those of the rest of the middle east , the saudis have generally been less religious , and their views on democracy and arranged marriage suggest a subtle 暗流 .
to be sure , all four countries are generally religious and more than 90 % of subjects believe that they believe in divine life , faith in life , and think of heaven and hell .
but , compared to other muslims , the saudis seem less religious .
62 % of saudis believed that they were religious , and 82 % , 85 % , and 98 % , 85 % , and 98 % , respectively .
americans seem to be much more religious than saudis , with 81 % describing themselves .
some differ from different countries ’ understanding of piety , like americans ’ belief that religiosity might be different from the middle east , and that they do not emphasize religion ’ s faith in religion .
this can also partly explain the difference between muslim countries .
but the gap between the saudis and the iranians , jordanians , and egyptians , as well as egyptians , is so large that it poses a challenge to saudi arabia as a highly conservative and religious society .
in fact , the message is less than words : only 28 % of saudis said they participate in weekly religious observance , with 27 % , 44 % , and 42 % , 44 % , 42 % , and 42 % in the us .
these findings , while contrary to popular perceptions of saudi culture , are not so surprising .
scholars of religious societies have long argued that the public ’ s overall religiosity is declining in the face of a single religious , or religious , state with the state .
that is why some argue that , because the national authorities imposed strict codes of conduct , so that they are no longer supportive of official religious institutions , such a view would have its own point .
so it is not surprising that living in egypt and jordan , who live in a state without coercion , is more religious than the saudis or iranians , who have had to beware of the `` `` righteous police '' that they face .
even when it comes to marriage , the views of many saudis are striking .
when it comes to arranged marriage , the subjects were almost 一半一半 , half thought that marriage should be followed by marriage , and 48 % thought that love was the basis for marriage .
this finding seems to reveal a strong desire for more personal freedom in the absence of rigid gender segregation and patriarchal 环境 .
finally , the result is that the saudis strongly support democracy , which is a source of conflict with saudi conservatism .
in the saudis , 58 % believed that democracy was the best form of government , 23 % disagreed , and 18 % do not express them .
in a country with a lack of realistic and historical context , the majority of the population ’ s support seems to contradict common sense .
democratic supporters are less religious , more integrated into secular , and more tolerant of others .
beyond survey data , historical experience shows that freedom will become even stronger when the autocratic monarchy governs with religious infrastructure .
in the late ottoman empire , the cult of religion in the late nineteenth century was a strong liberal nationalist in the late nineteenth century .
at the same time , anti-establishment and secular movements representing constitutionalism are gaining ground in iran - a powerful response to the authoritarianism of the iranian king and religious institutions .
with historical parallels with saudi arabia ’ s current situation , we can not rule out the possibility of reform .
the findings now show that the saudis are likely to begin demanding more transparent political and interventionist religions .
is america ’ s middle class really stagnating ?
cambridge – the challenge of raising the middle class ’ s household income has become an important focus of the presidential campaign in the united states .
everyone agrees that incomes for those at the top have been soaring for decades , thanks to huge gains from high-tech education and rising stock prices .
improved programs to help those who are in poverty – such as food stamps and 退休金 pension benefits – are generally supported .
but the public debate focused on how to help the larger ( and politically more important ) middle class .
to this end , improvements in existing government programs could help : expand closer access to market training , increase married women ’ s entry into the workforce , and reduce the tax rules to raise the need for older workers to hire older workers to raise productivity and wages .
but , while such programs should be a priority , they should not ignore the actual performance of middle-class households in the last few decades .
unfortunately , political debate has been distorted by misleading statistics , which grossly understate the benefits of middle-class families .
it is often said , for example , that average household incomes have grown slowly in the last few decades ( or even stagnation ) .
some us census figures seem to support this conclusion .
but more accurate government data suggest that the real incomes of households in the middle of the income distribution have increased by about 50 % since 1980 .
if a more appropriate adjustment against the cost of living is made , the benefits of the middle class will be substantially higher .
the us census bureau estimates that the total currency income of all sources of households , and to identify the 50 % distinction between the distribution of income distribution and the 50 % norm .
this is the median household income .
in order to compare median household income to a different time , the authorities value the dollar ’ s value from the consumer price index dividing the real median household .
the numbers show that the cumulative increase in income from 1984 to 2013 was less than 10 % , equivalent to less than 0.3 % per year .
every adult who has lived in the us during this period recognizes that the number of people in the united states has generally underestimated the benefits of the household .
one indicator of this number suggests that the government is also estimating that real hourly compensation for employees in the non-farm business sector rose 39 % from 1985 to 2015 .
the official census estimate suffers from three key problems .
first , it fails to recognize the changing composition of the population ; today ’ s families differ significantly from their families 30 years ago .
moreover , the census bureau ’ s income estimates are based on the assumption that middle-class households receive more than a growing number of government transfers and benefit from lower income-tax rates .
finally , the price index used by the census bureau does not reflect the important contributions of new products and products to us living standards .
consider the changing composition of households .
when the nonpartisan congressional budget office ( cbo ) conducted a detailed study of changes in household income from 1979 to 2011 , it expanded the definition of income , as well as 福利 benefits like food stamps and 实物 benefits like health care .
the study also subtracted federal taxes , compared to 19 % of middle-income households in the middle class in 1980 , to 11.5 % in 2010 .
in order to convert annual income to real incomes , the cbo uses consumer spending index , which many believe is better than the consumer price index .
the cbo also conducted a separate analysis of household size .
from traditional monetary income , the cbo found that real median household income increased by just 15 % between 1980 and 2010 , with the census bureau ’ s estimate .
but if the definition of income expands , the benefits of the tax cuts include , the cbo found that median household incomes increased by 45 % .
adjusting for household size would boost this gain to 53 % .
and even this much more significant increase may significantly underestimate the increase in real living standards .
in the sector ’ s calculations , dollar revenues are translated into a measure of real income by producing a price index that reflects changes in existing goods and services .
but this price index does not reflect new products or improvements in existing goods and services .
so , if all of the money ’ s income increases by 2 % a year ago , the price of all goods and services increased by 2 % , and officially estimated that real incomes are not changing , even if new products and important quality improvements increase our wellbeing .
indeed , the us government has simply not calculated the value created by internet services such as google and facebook , because these services are not purchased .
no one knows how much of these innovations and improvements to make us more benefits .
but assuming that these benefits are equivalent to just 1 % per year , the last three decades could have caused 35 % growth .
the amount of benefits that will be compared to the cbo estimates that real median household income is at close to 2.5 % per year over the last 30 years .
so the us middle class has performed much better than the statistical pessimists believe .
and , if there is a better policy , these families will be better off .
is it five years wiser ?
at the fifth anniversary of the september 11 , 2001 , attacks on the united states , the new attacks on the us are approaching .
these attacks , and their reactions , have already produced mutations of international relations , but there is no reason to think that further atrocities are less likely .
why is our security less secure than it was five years ago ?
within a week of the attack , president george w. bush declared a “ war on terror . ”
one unique advantage of the war is that it is clear and powerful that the us needs the intense counterattack that it needs .
moreover , the metaphor of war has been added to active mobilization , which is not just a country that suffered from attacks , but also its allies .
of course , no one doubts the us right to defend itself .
the legitimacy of violent counterattack has never been doubted .
but the metaphor of war is also unavoidable : when it comes to terrorism , it is misleading and counterproductive .
when we resort to war , it means a fight against people , people , or states .
it means that both territories and the people living there are considered adversaries .
in all of these cases , the concept of war , with us defense secretary donald rumsfeld , is not helpful .
even in the case of september 11 , 2001 , only the us military seems capable of coping with the challenges that the us military , rather than the international threat , should use police expertise instead of military tactics .
the negative consequences of this mistaken vision quickly became apparent .
it is now widely known that the us government is likely to be unconscious ( partly ) accepting the image of a terrorist organization with a strong command system – an image that the us military can attack and destroy .
but al – the term “ al qaeda ” or “ camp ” means that it is a place where it is more like a 琢磨不透 sphere of influence , a major area of influence , and a small number of small grassroots grassroots grassroots groups , which have few small , grassroots grassroots grassroots groups .
there is no evidence of the terrorist attacks in london , madrid , or bali after the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks , or attacks on the us embassy “ 柯尔号 ” in 2000 , reflecting a “ center ” of coordinated action or order .
it is also wrong to conflate islamic terrorism with the basque 组织 organization , sri lanka ’ s tamil tigers , or the irish republican army .
these groups have a regional base and focused on the realization of national goals , while islamist terrorism seems to be a “ humiliation ” for a few centuries of attempts to implement the “ humiliation ” of the muslim world for centuries of colonization , economic development , and political weakness .
the goal of islamist terrorists is nothing less than the destruction of “ hegemony ” in the western world , though many muslim countries want to cooperate with the international community and cooperate on the creation of effective development strategies .
the most viable strategy against the threat of fighting islamist terrorism is , and it will continue to be the coherence of leaders in a coordinated manner , including cooperation among the police , which is necessary to isolate , weaken , or destroy them .
this is a long and difficult enterprise , but there is no alternative .
in reality , the metaphor of war continues to define the response of the us and its several allies .
the attraction of this metaphor may be attributable to the belief that americans are not just about their troops ( understandable ) , but also disproportionate faith in broad force .
in any case , the war on terror led us policymakers to double up violence against violence , which is unlikely to win the hearts and minds of the muslim world .
afghanistan is the only case where a military response can be understood : its government gave “ al qaeda ” a temporary 驻扎地 .
but in iraq , which would have nothing to do with the “ al qaeda ” or september 11 , iraq , it was a mistake that reinforced islamist extremists ’ power and may well recruit terrorists .
moreover , america ’ s response to the effectiveness of its military solution has led to the recent war in lebanon and the invasion of gaza .
the international community is powerless .
the rigidity and brutality of us actions – the number of civilians killed in the civilian deaths – blocked any salutary intervention in countries like algeria , morocco , jordan , saudi arabia , or the united arab emirates .
likewise , the appeal of war rules out the prospect of serious negotiations between israel , syria , and lebanon .
as a result of an attack on muslim countries , the us and its allies gave the world the impression that islam itself is their enemy , leading inexorably to the “ clash of civilizations ” that the us wants to avoid .
but america ’ s strategy failed .
force is not everything .
the international community must make clear that islam is not our enemy , and the fight against terrorism should be taken .
and muslim political leaders should openly declare that terrorism is not their choice .
if both sides can contain a murderous mindset , the hope of cultural and political reconciliation will be reborn .
is we ( again ) in the oil crisis ?
oil prices are rising well above $ 50 a barrel , partly because the conflict between iraq ’ s conflict and the nigerian labor policy , and the short-term oil supply shocks of the recent hurricanes , as well as the recent hurricanes in florida .
once these shocks were removed , oil prices may fall , but the speculative factors could keep them relatively high , thereby giving the world economic and stock-market weaknesses .
high oil prices encourage public discussion of future oil prices .
any public discussion will not produce a clear conclusion , but it risks exaggerating rumors of the risks that higher oil prices pose .
experts may say that recent price increases are due to supply factors , but the price increase will undoubtedly add credibility to more outrageous long-term rumors .
the current moment of exaggerated rumors is about developing countries , particularly china and india , which are experiencing rapid economic growth , and , owing to the absence of restrictions on emissions from the kyoto protocol , both countries are seen as 引起 demand .
the story ’ s assumption is that , with hundreds of millions of people chasing a big housing and a big home , we will run out of oil faster than we might expect .
is it based ?
to be sure , china , india , and several other emerging countries are experiencing rapid growth .
but experts find it difficult to identify the long-term effects of this development on energy markets .
many factors remain fuzzy : the growth rate of these countries ’ energy needs , the discovery of new oil fields , the development of technology , and the eventual replacement of oil by other energy sources .
but , for now and for the foreseeable future , it is people ’ s understanding of this story , not the uncertainty underlying them .
if people think that future oil prices will be higher , the price of oil is now higher .
that is how markets work .
if people generally believe that oil prices will be higher in the future , owners of the oil fields will postpone huge investments in development and expansion , and they may be able to keep oil production below capacity .
they would rather be able to invest and invest in oil prices , so they will contain growth in the supply of oil .
these expectations can be achieved as a result of nature , with rising oil prices and speculative bubbles .
but if owners of the oil fields think that oil prices will decline in the long run , they would now have the incentive to develop oil and expand production to sell more oil before the fall .
the resulting increase in oil supplies would reduce the price of oil , thereby strengthening expectations of further declines , and leading to the exact opposite of a speculative bubble : oil-price collapse .
the point seems obvious , but we do not want to think that oil prices are shaped by expectations of future oil prices .
for example , when the first world oil crisis began in january 1974 , oil prices doubled within days .
the immediate reason is that israel ’ s stunning victory in the yom kippur war has led arab oil producers to retaliate as retaliation .
the second crisis , in 1979 , was supposed to have caused the gulf ’ s oil supplies to the gulf ’ s oil supply and the subsequent iran-iraq war .
why , then , did the real oil price that followed the inflation rate remained or above its 1974 level ?
this is likely to be the case for speculative pressure , affecting opec and other oil producers .
while the changes in market psychology are difficult to understand , the main factors underpinning this irrational exuberance are almost always clear .
for example , scientists , including the computer pioneer jay 莱斯特 , published the limits of growth in 1972 .
the book ’ s question is whether the world will be subject to an international debate about whether oil and other natural resources are facing severe economic problems , and that opec ’ s failure to reduce output in 18 months appears to portend the emergence of these problems .
the second crisis was followed by the nuclear reactor , the nuclear reactor of march 1979 , which revived the atomic fuel movement .
the atomic energy regime was supposed to be the main technological bulwark against the world ’ s oil resources - suddenly suspected of being depleted by the end of the year .
after 1979 , fear of limits to growth and nuclear power ebbed .
but the current price increase reflects people ’ s eagerness to believe that the `` depleted oil run '' - this time attributed to china and india – even in the short term .
indeed , the international energy agency ( iea ) noted that the relationship between oil prices and inventory levels was decoupled from this september ’ s , and the price of actual oil is much higher .
the iea ’ s report calls this a `` structural shift in the market . ''
but the same changes in oil prices have occurred after the 1973 oil crisis , which , in both cases , remained high after the peak , undermining the growth of stock markets , housing markets , and the world economy .
let ’ s hope that the impact of the current spike in oil prices will not last .
but let ’ s hold not your breath ( but also for permanent preparation ) .
are we still evolving ?
new haven – many public policies are based on assumptions about “ human nature , ” and the recent enthusiasm is about how evolution shapes human behavior and psychology .
but that raises a number of important questions : are humans still evolving – if , if so , our biological properties are changing – or that modern civilization has made our evolution stall ?
in some of our traits , we do not need to speculate – for now , for several generations , as well as studies of thousands of samples .
although such studies have not yet been covered by most of the physical traits that people are interested in , they have also studied some of their properties .
so what are those studies ?
scientists use two approaches to study the sequence of genetic dna that is based on a particular health problem , and to compare the difference between them and others .
the genetic method can be measured by the evolutionary effects of hundreds and thousands of people who have accumulated in the generation , and the results are clear : humans are evolving in a relatively short period , and others chose different paths , depending on their environment and other specific circumstances .
through this approach , we recognize that the ability to digest milk in adults is actually the result of evolution in nearly 10,000 years – and has evolved repeatedly – and emerged from civilization , the goats , and the cultures that understand a lamb .
similar studies have also revealed the sensitivity of the sensitivity of alcohol to alcohol , as well as our immunity to malaria and leprosy .
some scientists , including me , have chosen another .
rather than seeking to find the genetic characteristics that have been accumulating and eventually manifest , we measure natural selection directly .
this approach can reveal the evolution of evolutionary choices , which can be reduced to a generation – and thus to answer whether modern civilization is a problem for evolutionary stagnation .
the message was clear : natural selection continues to operate in modern cultures .
whether such a choice will continue enough is long enough to bring about a major genetic change that will be answered only by next generations .
nevertheless , it is interesting to see where natural selection will shape humanity .
some of the answers are surprising .
we have measured natural selection in the us in massachusetts , massachusetts , where the long-term medical research on heart disease is based on the state of heart .
we have taken the example of a woman born from 1814 to 1956 as a sample of natural selection , and it was expected that women ’ s height will be a paltry two , and that women ’ s height will be only five years old , and the time for them will be five months old .
the study is surprising , given that , thanks to better nutrition and a variety of factors ( cultural factors also involve ) , women in developed countries are gaining height .
so why is this local woman ?
three :
first , we know that the lower age of the child ’ s baby , the risk of infant mortality increases , but modern medicine and health science have made it much less likely , reducing the risk of 低龄 children .
and we are expected to be shorter and shorter for women than they were in the first place .
in five other research projects , scientists found that women in the developing world ’ s two most sophisticated developing countries were shorter than ever ( and three other projects did not measure height ) .
while it is too early to say that this is a general trend , all signs point to this .
second , we found that the effects of natural selection have been the result of shorter and older women who are shorter and older .
but genes are only one of many factors affecting height and 头胎 age .
individual choice , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation will eventually be a factor in which factors like the one factor can be played .
when we estimate how much variation a person has occurred in a person ’ s body , the answer may be less than 5 % .
this means that 95 % of the variation in the variation comes from cultural influences and individual choices .
but for people living in such a complex modern culture , the impact of biological factors on certain characteristics , though small , will eventually become apparent in the long run and soon after .
third , these traits are often the result of genetic and environmental interactions .
one woman may carry a gene that is higher than average in her average , but she could eventually become a 矮个子 , given the children ’ s 缺乏营养 .
even if evolutionary processes continue and eventually change the genetic basis of height and death , we may not be able to see even more sophisticated women in ten years , because the factors of nutrition and culture are likely to offset or even conceal the role of genes .
so , even as we focus on the simple physical properties of height , natural selection of human selection turns out to be a multifaceted and nuanced process .
those affecting human behavior and psychology are more complex and more complex than our research capabilities .
in these areas , humans may be wiser than speculation .
the roots of argentina ’ s surprise crisis
new york – the currency scare that argentina experienced last month has shocked many .
indeed , the argentine government has made a series of risky moves since december 2015 , increasing its vulnerability .
what was not clear was when argentina ’ s economy will be put on trial .
when the test was tested , argentina did not .
when president mauricio macri took office in 2015 , argentina needed to address many macroeconomic imbalances .
early measures include eliminating exchange rates and capital controls and lowering exports of goods .
argentina returned to international credit markets after more than ten years of debt dispute with so-called vulture funds .
the macri government ’ s new macroeconomic approach is based on two pillars : gradually reducing the primary fiscal deficit , and an ambitious inflation-targeting regime , aimed at reducing annual price growth in just three years .
markets cheered .
the popular view that argentina ’ s government is eager to push for is that it has done what it needs to achieve faster and faster economic growth .
foreign direct investment should follow .
yet not .
by contrast , argentina fell into stagflation in 2016 , followed by a recovery in 2017 .
then , a few weeks ago , markets stopped cheering , expectations soured , and capital fled .
the peso fell 19 % against the us dollar in the first three weeks of may .
contrary to macri ’ s hopes , his reforms attracted short-term capital and financing in the form of short-term capital and financing , both foreign and currency , rather than foreign direct investment .
with the central bank ’ s negative responsibility , its policy is largely ineffective in keeping inflation below target ( annual inflation still stands at around 25 % in annual inflation ) , fueling speculative capital inflows , worsening its external imbalances , and increasing argentina ’ s vulnerability to external shocks .
as part of the inflation-targeting policy , the central bank ’ s central bank , through the sale of a central bank bond ( lebacs ) , relied on the bulk of the monetary base to expand the monetary base .
this means that the public sector is effectively financing a large primary budget deficit by issuing short-term central-bank debt ( 4.2 % of gdp and 3.83 % of gdp in 2016 and 2017 ) .
LEBCAS volumes are large , soaring by 345 % since december 2015 .
this may be sustainable if expectations for argentina were realized .
there are obvious trade-offs .
less aggressive hedge can stem the growth of the central bank ’ s debt that is currently dangerous , and it would block upward pressure on exchange rates ; but it would also lead to higher inflation .
nonetheless , attempting to reduce inflation and fiscal deficits at similar speeds should be a more prudent approach .
after all , macroeconomic policy decisions should not be based on the most optimistic scenario when they are expected to incur high costs .
ultimately , the currency crisis revealed argentina ’ s vulnerabilities .
looking ahead , argentina will face multiple risks .
first , the stock of lebacs remains large .
in the larger number of cases , argentina will have to look at financial markets .
this would increase the expected exchange-rate volatility , create opportunities for speculative investments in speculative finance , but discourage investment in the real economy .
second , because the public sector ’ s dollar-denominated debt increased significantly more than two years ago , the rise in exchange-rate risk has raised the sustainability of public-sector debt .
assessing the potential for argentina ’ s crisis after the crisis must emphasize several salient features of the crisis .
first , central banks lost 10 % of their total stock of foreign-exchange reserves within a month .
second , the annual nominal interest rate has increased to 40 % – the highest in the world , and could lead to a 滚雪球 of central-bank debt .
third , with the argentine shock most , macri announced that argentina would seek a spare agreement with the international monetary fund .
as a result , if argentina ’ s public sector is to run into debt crises in the coming years , it must accept the imf ’ s 督导 – the imf itself – as well as international creditors .
at that point , the imf ’ s financing exchanges often cause serious damage .
most worrying , the inflation-targeting approach that exacerbated argentina ’ s external imbalances has been reaffirmed .
so it is not surprising that a new round of real exchange-rate appreciation will be followed by a new round of real exchange-rate appreciation in 2019 .
next year , the presidential election will be good news for macri ; but the future of argentina is not .
ultimately , because macri has so far failed to bring down argentina ’ s economy to a path of sustained growth , it has increased argentina ’ s dependence on international creditors , and its government still needs to avoid a debt crisis .
to protect economic activity , tackling the vulnerabilities of fragility , and gradually reducing the primary fiscal deficit , should be maintained .
this means that the eventual recognition that trying to do more than lower inflation has led to costly risks .
a prudent approach also requires a gradual reduction in the stock of lebacs , recognizing that even greater inflationary pressure in the short term is the price of minimizing the risk that external imbalances will exacerbate and devalue the exchange rate further .
and it is certainly a mistake for macri ’ s government to continue reducing the soybean tax .
further tax cuts would increase the deficit , benefiting sectors that already enjoy rents .
the change in macroeconomic policy is not enough to put argentina on a path of inclusive and sustained economic development ; it is necessary .
at the outset of macri ’ s administration , he warned that he had chosen a high-risk approach .
unfortunately , these warnings were ignored .
the strategy we propose also carries its own risks .
but we believe that it provides a viable and more reliable path forward .
the way out of argentina ’ s new crisis
santiago – the late mit economist rüdiger dornbusch famously told his students that the world ’ s four countries , the world ’ s four countries , were rich , poor , japanese , and argentina .
no one worries that japanese money is buying control of the world .
but the world is worrying again about argentina .
argentina ’ s currency has just suffered another textbook attack .
on april 24 , ten-year yield on ten-year yield has been a mere 3 % since 2014 .
on the same day , investors began dumping argentine pesos and buying a soaring dollar to seek safety .
in order to stabilize the exchange rate after the peso ’ s depreciation , argentina had to raise interest rates to 40 % , while seeking help from the international monetary fund .
after all the turmoil , markets calm two weeks .
it is time to assess what went wrong , and what the country can – and must – do to prevent instability .
since december 2015 , a market-friendly reformer has governed argentina .
compared to the 骗子 and demagogues who have previously served ( after a long time ago , one of the millions of cash ) , president mauricio macri and his trained technocrats represent significant progress .
because macri ’ s team had no one in office , analysts and investors initially underestimated their political capacities .
so far , macri has shown that he is both a shrewd politician and a competent manager .
the currency crisis can not occur in better people .
but it did .
all of this began last december with a set of news conferences that were bound to be inconsistent with bad luck in the event of the 2018 inflation target to 15 % .
the revised figure has rightly acknowledged that previous goals were impossible without undermining the economy .
but , given macri ’ s chief of staff ’ s release from the economic team , the public fears about political interference .
two subsequent interest-rate cuts , totaling 150 basis points , have failed to redeem the associated loss of credibility .
but , in late march , argentina ’ s central bank began to intervene again , as it feared the impact of currency weakening on inflation , and it seems to be putting the exchange rate at around $ 20 .
investors naturally question whether this is tantamount to the changes in the policy mechanism .
given the failure of multiple economic “ shock therapy ” failures , macri decided to address the fiscal mess he inherited .
he has cut fuel and electricity subsidies , and some unnecessary spending , but simultaneously decided – a very plausible decision – to reduce the export tax rate .
as a result , fiscal deficits , while falling , remain stuck at 5.5 % of gdp .
governments have to borrow massively to cover the gap .
critics claim that fiscal adjustment is too slow to assuage markets , while markets do not seem to care about the country ’ s neighbors , and the overall budget gap is about 8 % of gdp .
yes , argentina ’ s current-account deficit exceeds 5 % of gdp , while brazil ’ s external position is essentially balanced .
but this merely shows that argentina ’ s private sector is investing in investment , while brazil ’ s private enterprises are rapidly deleveraging , with little investment or even almost non-existent investment .
in argentina , gradual fiscal adjustment seemed to be a viable response until the us interest rate soared and the dollar soared .
with renewed fears about emerging markets ’ credibility , the first hit argentina and turkey .
while the turkish government is panicking and the situation continues to deteriorate in the country , the argentine government 咬紧牙关 a bold act .
to the imf ’ s request for a political price , it must be done : only if argentina can persuade investors to be able to repay their debts , and the peso will not continue to plummet .
now the battle for deterrence is a shock to deterrence .
a sharp rise in domestic interest rates would help not only stabilize the peso , but also to attract investors to roll over large quantities of pesos that will expire in early may .
the rollover succeeded , and the peso stabilized at 25 .
what should be done next ?
it is attractive to carry trade nowadays , especially for long-term bonds , because this time has been the slowest real exchange rate for decades .
if the argentine peso turns out to be stronger than the real exchange rate ( presumably in the case of that ) , investors would gain handsomely .
so smart investors now bet on the peso , not vice versa .
but 40 % of interest rates can not be sustained for a long time without harming credibility .
the market must be persuaded to lower interest rates both reasonable and sustainable .
to avoid unsustainable 雪球 , central banks are likely to cut interest rates gradually after the details of the imf package are announced .
one good news is that the rollover risk of domestic bonds is not as large as some media headlines , because most of the bonds of most bonds are local banks and entities with large and stable liquidity needs .
the imf must act as soon as possible .
but it also must understand that too abrupt a fiscal adjustment could trigger a political backlash , jeopardizing the credibility of the entire package .
the peronist opposition , which has so far been weakened and divided , is hoping for a return to a backlash against the budget cuts and further increases in energy prices .
precisely because the international monetary fund is an international institution that transcends local politics , it should be more cautious , so that it should be prudent to avoid whatever ammunition it needs to prepare the party for the next presidential election in october 2009 .
this does not mean handing the argentine authorities a blank check .
at a time when inflation targeting and floating exchange rates are severely misaligned , occasional interventions are not uncommon .
the central bank has an obligation to ensure that market participants understand this .
the success of liberal reform in argentina extends far beyond the country ’ s borders .
populists of the left and the right , some of them authoritarian tendencies , are leading opinion polls in the run-up to the presidential election in brazil and mexico later this year .
with populists in power in the united states , europe , and asia , the return of the two most populous latin american countries will generate global influence .
with the right policies and strong support from the international community , argentina could prove to the world another viable way forward .
the destructive power of inflation
cambridge – when i was in argentina last week , i learned the destructive power of high inflation .
argentina ’ s annual inflation rate is about 20 % today , compared to about 40 % last year .
the central bank has worked hard to keep the economy on inflation , with the goal of achieving 5 % inflation in three years .
inflation in argentina is much higher in the past .
in the 15 years from 1975 to 1990 , annual inflation stood at 300 % , meaning that the average price level doubled every few months .
in 1989 , prices rose at an explosive annual rate of about 1,000 % , and inflation is finally under control .
in fact , inflation has largely disappeared .
i remember in argentina in the mid-1990s that there was little inflation .
at the time , the argentine peso was 盯准 , two currencies in the streets of buenos aires .
but the peso has since been pegged to the us dollar , with dollar contracts forced to convert into peso contracts by exchange rates .
in 2003 , the annual inflation rate was 40 % .
it fell to 10 % in subsequent years .
but , during néstor kirchner and his wife and successor , cristina fernández de kirchner , inflation rose to 25 % .
finally , the 2016 inflation rate returned to 40 % , and , in the meantime , distortionary price subsidies used to conceal the real inflation rate were canceled .
the recent high inflation rate , as well as the public ’ s memory of a higher rate of inflation in the past , has hurt argentina ’ s economy .
in order to compensate for high inflation , market interest rates rose , causing even the government to pay 25 % interest rates for short-term pesos .
lenders are reluctant to provide long-term credit for long-term credit , because the inflation surge will affect their bonds and loans .
households and businesses are reluctant to finance long-term investments in loans or loans to finance long-term investments , because the inflation surge would cause their interest payments to rise sharply .
in fact , argentina ’ s history of high and variable inflation has destroyed domestic mortgage markets , which can not be purchased through mortgages .
businesses are also reluctant to borrow , because they remember that previous inflation – and thus interest rates – contributed to a healthy business landscape .
life insurance has been undermined by high and uncertain inflation .
no one knows that the peso ’ s value in the future is worth the value of the peso , so who will buy insurance today ?
but when the inflation rate changes rapidly , even the current inflation rate is difficult to pin down .
the previous government tried to raise the public by issuing inflation estimates , and experts agree that the government ’ s publication is far below the real rate of price growth .
one argentine friend explained that the statisticians who tried to provide accurate measures to measure inflation would be fired by the government , with political allies that produce a low inflation figure .
they said that they “ will turn government data from technological matters into 行为艺术 . ”
when the government allows the argentine people to convert their pesos into dollars and carry out them , those with financial assets would invest in the us .
some told me that the us is investing in argentina ’ s wealth more than it invests in argentina .
thanks to this outflow of money , investment in argentina is low , undermining productivity and growth .
total capital formation represents only 17 % of gdp in argentina , compared to 23 % in china and mexico .
although president mauricio macri ’ s new administration is determined to reduce inflation and achieve price stability , doing so would have a high political price .
tight money and high interest rates depress investment , causing real gdp to shrink .
at the same time , there is no feeling that inflation has turned from 20 % to 15 % .
for that , the government must pay short-term political costs to achieve long-term economic benefits .
argentina ’ s experience holds two key lessons for other countries .
first , price stability is fragile , and inflation is likely to rise sharply .
second , high inflation will remain in the public ’ s memory and has long-lasting negative effects .
achieving price stability is important , but it is also important to maintain price stability by managing monetary policy and targeting a low inflation rate .
promise and peril for argentina ’ s g20 presidency
washington , dc – in june 2016 , argentina ’ s president , mauricio macri , seemed to be welcoming .
the g20 is just approved as the g20 chair in 2018 .
the us presidential race is growing , but hillary clinton won the democratic nomination and his election in november .
macri is optimistic that he will push his international agenda together with like-minded allies .
fast-forward to today .
macri must be worried about a more challenging international environment than he expected .
but the upcoming g20 presidency in argentina is not fraught with difficulties .
to be sure , confronting us president donald trump and his “ america first ” agenda will not be easy .
at last month ’ s g20 summit in hamburg , trump , trump has separated himself from other 19 leaders , including macri , who firmly supported the decision to withdraw from the paris climate agreement – an agreement that almost all of the international community believed would be irreversible .
likewise , trump has demanded renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement .
the renegotiation of the process began this month , and it would be impossible to end , with the us and canada ’ s relations with mexico and canada affected .
moreover , trump is not the only factor macri can control , but it will affect his ability to preside over the g20 .
likewise , the various conflicts in the middle east , the humanitarian disaster in africa , and the deteriorating situation in venezuela are likely to cause the consequences of crossing national borders .
latin america ’ s g20 members are coming to elections , and that is another source of uncertainty .
argentina will hold legislative elections this october , and mexico and brazil will hold presidential elections next year , and the populist candidates will have a strong performance .
so what can macri do to maximize argentina ’ s chances of a successful g20 presidency ?
trump , for his part , could use them to take advantage of the friendship that they had been turning into politics .
but this relationship also carries some risks , involving trump ’ s business relationships in argentina .
what is promising is that macri can and should work closely with civil-society groups and activists to ensure adequate space for engagement .
in hamburg , violent clashes with protesters led to nearly 200 police injured , and german insurance companies have paid $ 1,200 million .
the argentine g20 team must recognize the possibility of disruption , especially given the unpopularity of some of its government ’ s austerity measures , which now have a popular protest .
in broad terms , argentina ’ s g20 presidency remains an important opportunity to drive macri ’ s emphasis on international cooperation .
with mexican president michel temer ’ s final year in office , brazilian president michel temer was caught in scandals , with macri likely to aim to define argentina as a regional leader in latin america .
this leadership role could enable macri to revitalize the ailing mercosur , including several latin american countries , which would support national plans to reduce poverty through increased trade and investment .
if the uk-eu trade agreement is to succeed in this december , this plan – and argentina ’ s broader g20 agenda – will gain additional fuel .
argentina could also use its g20 presidency to develop a climate and energy program agreed by the united states , which excludes the us .
macri has declared 2017 “ renewable energy for renewable energy , ” promising argentina to deliver by 2025 by 20 % of its electricity demand through renewable energy .
moreover , the argentine government has joined the ambitious coalition coalition , a coalition that ensures the success of the 2015 paris climate agreement .
this is an informal organization , including germany , brazil , and the marshall islands , which have declared “ unwavering ” adherence to the paris agreement .
argentina is the first country to submit a more ambitious national climate change program than the paris agreement .
macri should use the credibility of these moves – and , of course , argentina ’ s progress on renewable energy targets and reducing deforestation – to encourage other countries to revise their commitments .
the timing is very good .
because the current commitment will not be enough to limit the rise in global temperatures to the “ significantly lower ” target of the paris agreement , the un will be in particular special talks in 2018 , encouraging countries to make more ambitious commitments by 2020 .
argentina can also link its g20 employment and technological goals with the goal of building a low-carbon economy .
to combine these agendas together , a key element is the completion of argentina ’ s long-term low-emission development strategy before the 2018 g20 summit .
after all , progress in these strategies – which are part of the paris agreement – sends a strong signal to investors seeking to reduce climate-related risks and take advantage of new opportunities in renewable energy , electric vehicles , and batteries .
there is no doubt that global instability will affect argentina ’ s g20 presidency .
but argentina ’ s own actions will also have an impact .
to maximize the chances of success in the g20 , macri should focus on working closely with argentina ’ s european and latin american allies , while strengthening its government ’ s credibility on the issue of the world .
argentina is not climate leaders
内乌肯 – argentina ’ s president , mauricio macri , said that the reserves of oil and gas in argentina – the world ’ s second largest – are not just critical to reviving argentina ’ s economy , but also a “ bridge fuel ” support for the climate transformation .
under argentina ’ s leadership , the g20 has signed a communiqué this summer to highlight the role of natural gas in “ support for the transition to a low-carbon energy system , ” which “ promises to expand significantly in the coming decades . ”
macri ’ s government has set a plan to attract $ 12 billion in investment in fossil fuels each year , predicting that revenues from oil and gas exports would exceed the current largest agricultural sector in argentina .
argentina does have huge reserves to be exploited : estimates of a whopping 6.1 billion barrels of crude oil , 583 trillion cubic feet of gas , are concentrated in 瓦卡 穆尔 .
but it is entirely illusory to use these resources to benefit environmental benefits .
developing argentina ’ s shale resources will not only require dangerous and expensive hydraulic fracturing ; it will also produce about 500 billion tons of co2 emissions .
according to a study by the oil change international organization , exploration of the gas emissions emitted by argentina ’ s shale reserves would limit global warming to 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels – a goal set by the paris climate agreement – which is the goal of the paris climate agreement .
the united nations commission on economic , social , and cultural rights recommended that argentina ’ s government “ reconsider ” unconventional hydrocarbon resources .
but , if argentina receives enough investment to build the infrastructure needed to make 穆尔 muerta a profitable – pipelines , railways , 石英 mining , and waste – argentina could be expected to be able to be fully exploited .
the possibility is increasingly likely that the world ’ s largest companies – including the united kingdom ’ s oil producer , which has a 50 % stake in the second largest oil producer in argentina – are already in the process of extracting ( Total ) , 壳牌 ( Total ) , shell ( Shell ) , norway , and malaysia .
and it will be not just climate .
the economic impact of the argentine gas program has led to a shift in household , business , and national resources to fossil-fuel companies .
argentina ’ s government has cut subsidies for private gas and oil heating for the g-20 .
meanwhile , macri ’ s government has increased the price of gas ( the dollar ) .
add to that a sharp fall in the peso ( which has depreciated by more than 50 % this year ) , and the price of gas for households and businesses in argentina over the last 24 months has risen by 13 % .
not surprisingly , many companies and households are unable to afford energy bills .
the price of the price has been devastating , and all opposition parties unite , demanding that tariffs return to the laws of november 2017 .
macri vetoed the law in may , and then replaced his energy minister .
households and businesses suffer , and oil and gas companies are still making money .
in fact , companies that are deliberately exploiting shale reserves have paid lavish subsidies , with other benefits : gas plans guarantee natural prices of unconventional natural gas ; and the reduction in the cost of a 协议 agreement with the major trade unions .
one result of these “ generosity ” arrangements is the shale-gas extraction company ’ s failure to deliver on its promised economic benefits .
according to a study by the argentine social environment and the energy justice coalition , while the annual investment in gas companies operating in 瓦卡 in 2016 is lower than in 2015 , the jobs they offer are still more profitable .
beyond trade unions ’ violations of labor rights , shale-gas extraction violates the rights of indigenous communities .
for example , indigenous people ’ s community protests against the situation they knew in advance are in their territory .
moreover , while more than 60 municipalities have passed local regulations banning drilling , the courts ruled that some of them were unconstitutional , because they abused public power – a violation of local democracy .
thus , argentina ’ s shale project undermines efforts to address climate change , threatening local democracy and indigenous rights , and without the economic benefits promised by proponents .
at the same time , macri ’ s government , hosting the g20 ’ s annual summit this week , has used the g20 forum to use natural gas as a sustainable energy alternative .
this is not climate leadership .
in terms of shale-gas ambition , however , argentina is hardly alone .
from china to the united kingdom , the g20 governments are developing large-scale industrial strategies centered on shale gas .
instead of exploring shale reserves , the world needs to stop new fossil-fuel projects , phasing out existing fossil-fuel projects , and implement ambitious clean-energy investments that focus on providing decent jobs and respect for their own development .
only by adopting and promoting such an approach can argentina credibly demonstrate climate leadership .
argentina ’ s big bang
frankfurt – last week , the newly elected argentine president mauricio macri launched an ambitious plan to revive , struggling , and plagued by high inflation .
in a dangerous environment , we can not underestimate the importance of this move to argentina and other countries . other leaders are watching carefully how to respond to their economic difficulties .
thanks to years of economic mismanagement , argentina ’ s economy has been underperforming for decades .
the previous government tried to avoid difficult policy choices , obscuring fundamental issues , and implement ineffective controls , leading to a massive misallocation of resources , destabilizing the country ’ s access to the foreign-exchange earnings needed to import bills , and the domestic shortages .
the recent fall in commodity prices has exacerbated this , depleting the economy ’ s remaining growth dynamism , while worsening inflation , deepening poverty , and spreading economic insecurity and financial instability .
in principle , governments facing this situation have five basic options to contain the crisis , waiting for measures to revive growth and employment engines .
· the financial reserves and wealth accumulated by the economy ’ s performance are better off .
· borrow from domestic and foreign lenders .
· direct cuts in public-sector spending , while creating incentives to induce lower private-sector spending .
· raise taxes by raising taxes and taxes and raising revenues abroad .
· use price mechanisms to accelerate the entire economy and the adjustment of trade and financial interactions with other countries .
by design and sequencing , this five measures would not only help to address the current economic and financial problems , but also create conditions for higher long-term growth , job creation , and financial stability .
through such arrangements , they can contain the spread of economic hardship , protecting the most vulnerable people , and provide better footing for future generations .
in practice , however , governments often face complex conditions that constrain these measures .
if policymakers are not careful enough , in particular , two problems could reinforce each other , potentially derailing the economy .
the first problem is that specific factors – whether real or perceived – lead to some options that can not be adjusted for adjustment .
some measures are likely to be ineffective : the country may not have any wealth or reserves available , and its leaders may be reluctant to do so .
other measures , such as fiscal adjustment , must be implemented carefully to avoid undermining growth targets .
the second problem is timing , which is difficult to ensure in the right sequence .
effective implementation requires understanding the key features of economic and financial interactions , including the feedback of feedback mechanisms , including the 行为学 aspects of the private sector .
all of this must be closely coordinated with the pursuit of supply-side reforms that can spur robust , durable , and inclusive growth .
that is where macri ’ s government has become a historical exception .
macri ’ s inauguration as president was an enormous step , with a bold – and highly risky – strategy , which will liberalize prices and eliminate quantitative controls as a central place in the five measures associated with demand management and financial assistance .
already , exports and currency controls have been lifted , income taxes have been cut , and exchange rates have been relaxed , allowing the peso to depreciate by 30 % .
in history , few governments have taken such a sequence , with few governments pursuing such a degree ; indeed , most governments are hesitant , especially when it comes to monetary liberalization .
when other governments adopt similar measures , they often wait until financial injections and measures to contain demand .
they worry that , if these problems are to be found , reform efforts will be derailed , and the public support needed to continue reform will be affected .
to revive argentina ’ s economy sustainably , the macri administration will need to act quickly to mobilize massive external financial support , opening new domestic resources , and implement deeper structural reforms .
if they do , argentina ’ s ambitious economic strategy will be a model for other countries , both now and in the future .
but if this approach fails – because it is not the right sequence or a surge in popular dissatisfaction – other countries will be even more hesitant to deregulate and achieve monetary liberalization when they are liberalized .
the resulting policy confusion is bad for everyone .
macri ’ s disappointing 首年
new york – argentina ’ s economy is struggling .
last year , the economy stagnated , with gdp falling by 2.3 % and inflation at nearly 40 % .
poverty and inequality are rising ; the unemployment rate is rising ; and foreign debt grew at a staggering rate and has not improved .
at least for president mauricio macri , this year ’ s performance was truly disappointing .
to be sure , macri faced a daunting challenge when he took office in december 2015 .
with the inconsistent macroeconomic policies of the previous president , cristina fernández de kirchner , the national economy had fallen into an unsustainable orbit .
the imbalances that result from these policies have weakened economic competitiveness and foreign-exchange reserves , putting the country in a balance-of-payments crisis .
but macri also has a flawed macroeconomic policy approach .
his government was supposed to address fiscal and external imbalances without undermining the social inclusion of the past decade .
but he has failed to do so based on four key pillars .
first , macri ’ s government abolished exchange-rate controls and shifted argentina to floating monetary policy , allowing the argentine peso to depreciate by 60 % relative to the dollar in 2016 .
second , macri ’ s government has reduced taxes on goods exports that the previous government was heavily placed on , and rescinded some import controls .
third , the central bank of argentina announced that it would pursue a system aimed at controlling inflation , rather than continuing to rely on taxes to finance the fiscal deficit .
finally , macri ’ s government has reached agreement with the so-called vulture funds and other holdout creditors that have been blocking the country from international credit for more than a decade .
in the wake of the agreement , the emerging market ’ s biggest debt problem ended , and argentina could begin to borrow heavily from new external borrowing to help resolve its considerable fiscal deficit .
while argentina has just lost an expensive lawsuit under the legal framework of new york ’ s law ( which was borrowed through this framework ) , the authorities would still choose to issue new debt under the framework .
macri ’ s macroeconomic policy approach , including the uncontrolled price of public services to freeze public services , and an amnesty program that would bring more revenue to the government – all based on controversial assumptions .
most important , the dramatic change in the policy process should be to create conditions for dynamic growth .
in these assumptions , currency depreciation can be encouraged to encourage the production of trade goods , aided by lower export taxes , thereby addressing external imbalances .
trading with the 秃鹰 fund should reduce the cost of financing , boosting investor confidence , thereby attracting foreign direct investment .
investment-led growth would help the entire economy .
these assumptions have not yet been borne out .
contrary to the government ’ s expectations , the peso ’ s depreciation has had a significant impact on consumer prices – as critics warn .
the central bank ’ s renewed focus on inflation is unlikely to help the problem , because it would undermine economic activity and deepen the suffering of the most vulnerable , for whom unemployment is higher than rising prices .
moreover , argentina ’ s fiscal deficit increased , owing to the decline in government revenues .
as macri ’ s critics have cautioned , the uncertainty surrounding his policies impedes investment , and the inflows of foreign direct investment have not yet changed significantly .
but the government has done the right thing : it rebooted the national bureau of statistics and census , which had lost its reputation under previous government intervention .
but the overall picture remains bleak .
in the end of macri ’ s first job , argentina faced the same macroeconomic imbalances as when it came to office , and the burden of external debt was mounting .
moreover , popular anger is heating up , because macri ’ s policies have enabled wealth to move away from the working wage .
protest movements abound , and even lead to delay .
on april 6 , the government faced the first nationwide strike .
as it stands , argentina ’ s prospects are uncertain .
external borrowing is becoming a serious problem , and it may intensify , as the fed ’ s continued interest-rate hikes exacerbate the cost of debt repayment .
unstable macroeconomic dynamics are reproducing similar imbalances .
for example , capital inflows associated with external borrowing are driving the peso to strengthen , threatening to create an important economic sector that creates jobs .
in the parliamentary election this year , macri ’ s government could try to stimulate economic activity by taking on more debt .
but this debt recovery is bound to be unsustainable and will sow the seeds for a more serious debt problem .
to avoid continuing debt turmoil , argentina must reduce its fiscal deficit .
but this can be achieved only if economic activity is sustainable and inclusive , and that will require more competitive economies .
under current circumstances , attempting to address problems through fiscal contraction will only exacerbate the recession .
macri ’ s government should adopt a sound and controversial economic presumption that builds on long-term macroeconomic strategies .
otherwise , in the absence of substantial medium-term corrections , argentina would only be trapped in a destabilizing debt path that leads nowhere .
getting fair for sovereign debt
the united states federal reserve debt
the decision has been heated , affecting bonds issued by various regions , which suggests that us courts can shape contracts in other countries .
since then , lawyers and economists have tried to clarify the implications of griesa ’ s decision .
does the authority of us courts really extend beyond america ’ s borders ?

this decision is a salutary retort of the decision by us judges , who seem not to understand the complexities of global financial markets , sends some important messages .
first and foremost , argentina ’ s debt negotiations are being put in place by a us court – but the fact that a british court has been countered by a british court – is a sharp reminder that a solution to market-based sovereign-debt crises could cause significant chaos .
before the griesafault , people often mistakenly assume that solutions to sovereign-debt repayment should be achieved through decentralized negotiations , without a strong legal framework .
but simple change , such as contract modifications , can not be overcome .
multilateral debt sometimes involves conflicting legal laws in different jurisdictions , a basic formula for creditors ’ votes – a basic formula that advocates of market-based approaches – do not solve complex bargaining issues .
nor is it certain to be used to exchange the exchange rate on debt issued by different currencies .
if these problems leave the market to the market , the strong bargaining power , rather than efficiency or ownership , will determine the outcome .
the consequences of these deficiencies are not just inconveniences .
delaying a debt restructuring could deepen and prolong the recession , as greece illustrates .
this brings us to the second lesson of the british decision .
the stakes are high , and the system is broken , so the market has no reason to do so .
the us has always prided itself on its “ rule of law , ” which makes wall street the largest sovereign-debt market .
but grillo ’ s ruling is based on special interpretations of some of the terms of argentina ’ s contract – a interpretation that , according to us , is likely to be around the court ’ s court decision .
grandiose us rule of law is no longer robust .
it protects the powerful against the weak .
“ the griesafault is a matter of several times complicated and complicated , ” even if it is revealed that it has not yet been revealed .
the us is better off taking action before the sovereign-debt market abandons new york .
china should be ready to pick up the situation .
today , china saves far beyond the us and is trying to bring shanghai to global financial centers .
given the collapse of the us system in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis , the viability of this ambition is stronger .
but , if shanghai is to become a leader in sovereign lending markets , china should understand weaknesses in other regional legal frameworks and design more efficient , fairer alternatives .
the final implication of the british court ’ s decision is that all countries should note .
it is urgent that the un should re-establish a multilateral legal framework for sovereign-debt restructuring .
while the us is working to undermine , the british ruling reminds us that us judges are not the world ’ s judges .
finally , this is likely to leave wall street uncomfortable ; but , for many countries that depend on sovereign debt , it is good news for the rest of the world .
argentina ’ s bumpy ride
santiago – when our planes are about to enter the country ’ s skies in argentina , it has been suggested that , “ please are wearing it , because it is a bumpy ride . ”
“ we ’ re not . ”
investors who want to do business in argentina often hear similar warnings .
this is a country where scholars are models of financial crisis .
the country ’ s greatest financial crisis in 2001 destroyed the entire local banking system and triggered a default on government debt .
at the time , the economy collapsed by a whopping 18 % , while unemployment soared to above 22 % .
latin america ’ s largest banks in latin america predict that argentina ’ s gdp growth next year is 3.2 % , significantly below 6 % in 2011 .
there is also the problem of inflation .
official data have lost their citizens ’ trust , while private analysts estimate that the price index is rising at an annual rate of 25 % .
although all of these are the result of serious assessments of serious economists , one must again have reservations about these economic projections .
since the crisis began a decade ago , argentine policymakers have almost violated the principle that all economic-policy textbooks must abide by .
at the same time , both local and foreign economists have warned that if this extreme move continues , the consequences will be serious .
but argentina achieved rapid growth , and per capita income has doubled since 2002 .
energy policy is a perfect example of wrongheaded government decision-making .
argentina ’ s government insists on freezing gas prices with inflation .
the price was artificially driven down , so that consumers don ’ t care too much , and investors stop pouring money .
as a result , argentina , once a major exporter of natural gas , seeks gas imports to cover domestic shortages .
in the last decade , argentina has been a highly favorable external environment , with rising global commodity prices and technological innovation making agricultural output significantly higher .
the boom in neighboring brazil has also raised demand for a wide range of argentine products .
with tax increases and the debt burden after a decade default , the government began a consumer binge : real public spending grew at double-digit rates since 2002 .
at the same time , central banks maintain low interest rates , so the cost of lending is essentially zero or negative at a zero rate .
in this environment , argentine consumers are naturally consuming , and corporate profits rose .
not long ago , i met a number of foreign investors in argentina .
their programs everything from paper mills to supermarkets .
after listening to the stories that they were trying to do , they asked why they were forced to invest in argentina .
the consensus i received is “ because they make a lot . ”
the question now plaguing argentina is whether this era of prosperity has reached an end .
you can ’ t feel any of the air ’ s pain in buenos aires ’ s lifetime , and it can not be inferred from voters ’ behavior by voters ’ behavior this october , because they seem to support president cristina kirchner ’ s reelection president in october .
but signs of economic deterioration are already visible .
while import imports remain strong , commodity prices are falling sharply in argentina , owing to slower global growth .
investors are also in the throes of a weakened peso , fearing a weaker peso .
capital is flowing out of the country , and government reserves are being depleted .
to contain the outflow of dollars , the central bank is forced to raise interest rates .
this , together with the gloomy international outlook and the need to move toward fiscal austerity after the election , will slow .
a bumpy ride can be acceptable , if only smoothly .
for the central bank , however , it will be a challenging period .
the vultures ’ victory
new york – the recent decision by the united states to appeal to the court of appeals could put global sovereign-debt markets at risk , even if the us is no longer viewed as an ideal place to issue sovereign debt .
at the very least , it has made it impossible to restructure all debt under the standard debt pact .
in the process , the basic principle of modern capitalism , once the debtor can not repay its creditors , is subverted .
trouble has emerged more than a decade ago , when argentina had no choice but to devalue its currency and default .
under the existing system , argentina is in the midst of a rapidly declining downward spiral in greece and the rest of europe .
the unemployment rate soared , austerity , rather than restoring fiscal balance , only to amplify the economy .
devaluation and debt restructuring are effective .
in the years since the start of the 2008 financial crisis , argentina ’ s annual gdp growth was 8 % or higher , one of the world ’ s fastest-growing countries .
even previous creditors benefited from argentina ’ s economic rebound .
argentina adopted an innovative and innovative approach to new debt for new debt – roughly 30 cents per dollar of the dollar – plus the gdp-linked bond index .
the faster argentina grew , the more it paid to the size of its former creditors .
the interests of argentina and its creditors constitute a consensus : both sides want growth .
this is akin to the “ chapter 11 ” restructuring of us corporate debt , which used bonds to pay for equity , with bondholders becoming new shareholders .
debt restructuring usually creates conflict among people .
that is why countries need bankruptcy laws and bankruptcy courts to address domestic debt disputes .
but there is no such system in international debt disputes .
once upon a time , such contracts were forced by force intervention , with mexico , venezuela , egypt , and others learning the lesson in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries .
in the aftermath of the argentine crisis , the bush administration vetoed proposals to establish a mechanism for sovereign-debt restructuring .
as a result , we are not even trying to engage in fair and effective restructurings .
poor countries are at a severe disadvantage when they are in bargaining for multilateral lenders , which are often backed by strong domestic governments .
normally , debtor countries will be paid hard to pay so much that they are bankrupt after a few years .
economists tried to avoid this outcome by restructuring the depth of the bonds associated with gdp-linked bonds .
but some “ vulture ” funds , particularly the billionaire 对冲 基金 , led by the billionaire paul singer , have taken argentina ’ s agony as an opportunity to capture huge profits for the sake of argentina ’ s people .
they bought old bonds at a fraction of their face face , and then try to force argentina to pay the same bonds by litigation .
americans see how financial firms put their own interests ahead of these countries – and the world .
the vultures created a new level of greed .
their litigation strategy took advantage of the standard contractual clause ( called pari passu ) , which was intended to ensure that all creditors receive equal treatment .
if this principle is applied , no one would accept restructuring .
this is not a fresh start – and it involves myriad disturbing consequences .
in the debt crisis , blame often falls on debtors .
they borrowed too much .
but creditors ’ responsibility is as much as a debtor – and too little , too cautious .
indeed , lenders should be experts on risk management and assessment , and , in this sense , responsibility should be borne by them .
default or debt restructuring should make creditors more cautious in lending decisions .
the consequences of this injustice may be long-term .
after all , the development of china , which accounts for the long-term benefits of the people ’ s long-term interests , should be prepared to be prepared by issuing bonds in the us financial system , and the us courts – and many other parts of its political system – seem to have superseded the public interest .
one good advice that countries will receive is no longer terms of pari passu in the future debt compact , at least not more specifically .
the pact should also include cacs , enabling vulture funds to hold up debt restructuring .
when enough creditors approve the restructuring plan ( in argentina , 90 % of the country ’ s debt holders agreed to restructure ) , and others will be forced to agree .
the fact that the imf , the us justice department , and anti-poverty ngos all joined to the vulture funds is telling .
but the same is true of the court ’ s ruling , which has little to do with their views .
for those in the developing and emerging markets , there are now new reasons to oppose the globalization of rich countries , particularly its financial sectors , to protect rich countries ’ interests .
after the global financial crisis , the panel on reform of the international monetary and financial system urged us to create an effective and fair system for restructuring sovereign debt .
america ’ s courts have a heavy economic cost and demonstrated why we need such a system now .
argentina ’ s energy dilemma
buenos aires – president cristina fernández ’ s announcement of almost all of the spanish energy producer ypf at the argentine energy producer ypf , which has raised legal alarms around the world .
indeed , without massive investment in the energy sector , this will not solve argentina ’ s energy problem .
repsol acquired full control of ypf in 1999 ; in february 2008 , it transferred some equity to the peterson group , which now stands at 25 % .
repsol now holds 57 % of the shares , with the rest owned by stock-market investors .
argentina ’ s government will expropriate 51 % of shares , leaving repsol with just 6 % .
in the 2008 stock sold , two major stockholders agreed to distribute at least 90 % of future profits in cash .
the decision was intended to enable the peterson group to pay for the debt of the bank and to repsol , and , in the stock of purchases , the peterson group did not pay , instead of paying them .
such a dividend is very high in the world oil industry .
over the last decade , ypf ’ s oil reserves fell sharply ( as were most oil companies operating in argentina ) , because investment in oil exploration was slashed .
meanwhile , gas accounts for 51 % of energy consumption , with oil accounting for 32 % , 17 % of coal , renewable energy , and 17 % .
worldwide , gas accounts for only about one-quarter of total energy consumption – for example , at 27 % in the united states , and 9 % in neighboring brazil .
of course , in other countries ( qatar , algeria , the united arab emirates , iran , and russia ) , gas also accounts for more than half of energy consumption , or even more than 60 % .
but their situation is very different from that of argentina : they all have the reserves of at least a dozen years .
argentina , which is highly dependent on natural gas , is shrinking its reserves , with roughly eight years of production .
using imports to offset the decline in reserves – about half of reserves and oil reserves are already being used – it would cost more than $ 300 billion per year .
indeed , after two decades of cheap , plentiful energy supplies ( and even available available access to exports ) , new expensive , scarce , and imported energy cycles have begun to decline by one-third since 1998 , and gas production has fallen by 15 % since 2004 .
today , argentina ’ s biggest challenge is to maintain self-sufficiency through heavy investment in land and mining .
meanwhile , argentina must change its consumption model , relying more on hydroelectric , nuclear , and wind power .
while the potential for unconventional resources is unlimited , the cost is high , requiring investment in the next five years .
most likely , in the short term , increased imports of liquefied natural gas and other 冉柳 will continue to increase pressure .
last year , the external energy deficit reached more than $ 3 billion , and this year will likely double .
one important question is whether the argentine government ’ s decision to nationalize the country ’ s YPF51% 股权 is the best way to restore self-sufficiency to oil and gas production , which is the best way to attract the capital needed to explore conventional energy exploration .
argentina also has tremendous potential to produce unconventional gas resources , because it has the world ’ s third largest reserves , after china and the united states .
but , alongside argentina ’ s conventional resources , the resources are to be developed , not themselves .
argentina ’ s warning to 准
buenos aires – the united states and germany have taken the lead .
recently , the growing tensions between the eurozone ’ s northern and southern countries have exacerbated the euro crisis , which has exacerbated the euro crisis , which has led some to consider the option of the past : perhaps only some countries ’ withdrawal can save the euro .
indeed , talk of exit from the eurozone , particularly in some southern european countries , is urgently needed to regain competitiveness , but first consider the real costs of exiting the euro .
but , with a new devaluation of the financial turmoil , the euro was a complete 另一回 , with most economists having no idea that , in the first three months of argentina , the argentine peso had depreciated by 30 % in the first three months of the country ’ s exchange rate .
despite the obvious differences between argentina and the european economies , the argentine exchange-rate roller-coaster episode provided a lesson for european leadership .
will europeans also want their own version of the “ peso ” ?
europe ’ s leaders should , at least , be able to do “ salvation ” contracts , which would impose restrictive restrictions on commercial banks ’ business , ( c ) debt restructuring , which ( d ) , and impose strict controls on capital and exchange rates .
let ’ s take closer look at each step , first and foremost for the creation of a new currency , in order to establish its position , which will require the creation of prices , currency , and financial contracts , and the imposition of exchange-rate and financial contracts .
as a result of severe asymmetric balance sheets , there is a massive redistributive effect of wealth and wealth redistribution .
argentina ’ s “ restructuring ” of bank deposits on deposits is based on the sacrifice of large depositors , resulting in social unrest .
second , once a country exits from the eurozone , a bank panic would trigger a bank panic , depositors scramble to run a run , and move their money into foreign currencies .
in fact , a year before argentina ’ s exit from its exit system , people began to argue that capital was on the rise , and , in turn , it accelerated the decoupling process in the peso and the dollar – and even faster in the eurozone ’ s economic integration .
as a result , selective deposit freezes would be the only option for avoiding bank failures .
here , argentina is a case in point .
when all deposits were frozen on all deposits in november 2001 , the financial crisis was exacerbated by the absence of liquidity in the market .
third , while “ 化 ” eliminates the loss of domestic foreign-currency debt in balance sheets , foreign debt can not be restructured unilaterally .
exit from the dollar would require restructuring national and corporate debt .
in fact , argentina ’ s government default on the currency board ’ s exchange-rate regime , while repealing the erm , was a long process .
ultimately , most companies are not bankrupt , mainly owing to the fourth : capital controls for companies ’ foreign debts and legal protections .
of course , regulation is necessary .
the devaluation of the currency is also intended to boost exports and regain market competitiveness .
but , in the short term , the change in the dynasty ’ s transformation is uncertain , with no return to a debt renegotiation of capital markets , which will require a relatively small amount of controls on capital flows , and some controls are more stringent .
for europe , controls on capital flows are the only way to avoid offshore finance , following the freeze on bank deposits and currency convertibility .
after all , it is impossible to say that exiting the euro while not regulating capital flows is a chimera .
some observers suggest that , given the lessons of argentina ’ s case , it would be used to introduce the depreciation of its own currency in terms of the price and price of a certain product , without abandoning the euro altogether .
i believe that this is not feasible .
at the time , argentina did issue the money and maintain a stable exchange rate against the us dollar before abandoning even a 2001 exchange-rate regime .
indeed , one can imagine that such a monetary regime would be difficult to avoid as a result of the currency ’ s lower exchange rate , which ultimately failed .
argentina ’ s exit from the dollar is a disaster , leading to a large number of contracts , wealth redistribution , bankruptcies , depositors run bank runs , exchange rates , and restrictive restrictions on capital flows in the short run .
even so , it would be better than introducing a new greek “ drachma . ”
because argentina ’ s currency board never shut down the peso , the demand for the peso is still high .
for countries that leave the euro , they will have to create demand for new money – a far more chaotic situation .
a rio report card
new york – the world ’ s best scientific publications , one of the world ’ s good publications , have just been released in the run-up to the rio+20 summit on sustainable development next week .
if the three major treaties signed by the first rio earth summit in 1992 were followed : climate change ， , biodiversity - F , 防治 , prevention of desertification – can humanity avoid being expelled ?
a generation has known that the world needs to change course .
we need to capitalize more on low-carbon alternatives like wind , solar , and geothermal power , rather than continue to rely on fossil fuels to fuel the world economy .
we need to adjust agriculture and fisheries to meet the capacity of the environment , rather than hunting , fishing , and clearing trees without regard for the impact on other species .
we need to end extreme poverty and reduce the rapidly growing fertility rate in the poorest parts of the world , without allowing services , education , and basic health care to be excluded from the family .
in short , we need to recognize that today ’ s seven billion people are likely to reach nine billion in the middle of the century , and that all of the high-tech global economies that are driving their high-tech global economy have a strong capacity to destroy their planet ’ s life-support systems .
but the consequences of individual behavior are so far removed from our daily life that we may be overwhelmed by the cliff .
when we opened our computers and lights , we do not know how much carbon emissions will be created .
when we eat our meals , we don ’ t know how much deforestation contributes to unsustainable farming .
when billions of small 小事 causes the rest of the planet to famine and floods , there is a basic awareness of the dangers of the world ’ s poorest people , such as mali and kenya , who are most vulnerable to the global network .
the agreement reached in 1992 in the first rio summit was good : thoughtful , far-sighted , public-spirited , and focused on global priorities .
but the agreement has not saved humanity .
these treaties are overshadowed by the shadow of our daily political , delusional , and media cycles , which , year after year , have been conducted to implement these treaties , but they do not ignore , delay , and debate legitimacy .
for two decades , our efforts have yielded only three failing grades .
so , did there be no other way ?
international law involves lawyers and diplomats , but it does not attract engineers , scientists , and community leaders in the frontier of sustainable development .
it is rife with technical provisions concerning oversight , binding obligations , 附件 一及 countries and thousands of other jurisprudence , but without a language to discuss their own survival .
we have thousands of documents , but they can not be candid .
do we want to save ourselves and our children ?
why not ?
we must speak decisively at rio+20 at rio+20 , and thus to address and act , rather than bickering and defensiveness .
because politicians follow public opinion , rather than lead public opinion , they can not count on elected officials to save the public without the public ’ s knowledge of the public .
few people can be heroic , so it is impossible to wait for politicians to make decisions .
so , rather than a new treaty , binding provision , or political commitment , it calls for action around the world .
the world ’ s unanimous demand for sustainable development over the center of global thought and action , especially to help young people cope with the challenges of the triple temperature , will determine their defining nature .
what we need is not a new treaty , but a special development goal that will motivate a generation to act , or the sdgs .
as the millennium development goals make us aware of extreme poverty and contributed to an unprecedented global effort to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , the sdgs could bring today ’ s young people acutely aware of climate change , biodiversity loss , and desertification .
by urging people to step up on the front lines of action , we can still fulfill the three agreements that were signed in the first place .
ending extreme poverty ; building a decarbonization system ; and slowing population growth ; promoting sustainable food supplies ; protecting the oceans , forests , and 旱地 ; and addressing the world ’ s 时代 .
universities around the world are a bastion of students and teachers who aim to address their own communities and countries .
and at least good firms know that unless they are part of the solution , they will not flourish and inspire their workers and consumers .
the world is poised to take action .
rio+20 could lead to a generation of action .
we are barely stuck at the time to turn f. kennedy into a , and passed the man ’ s ultimate test .
arms , or allies ?
riga – when many in latvia are surprised to sell a fraudulent assault on the boat to russia , other eu member states have begun to view russia as a potential military purchaser .
but is it wise for the eu and nato to increase their capacity to project 盟国 forces ?
after all , russia ’ s invasion of georgia was just two and a half years ago , and it is still a part of the country ’ s “ potential future member states ” to be part of the alliance .
the eu council ’ s common position on arms exports is legally binding for all member states .
indeed , under the “ 瓦森纳 arrangement , ” the member states can choose whether to export weapons .
the eu ’ s common position on arms exports has brought more information to us , higher transparency , and closer consultation , while coordinating a series of treaties and arms controls associated with arms exports .
but the potential of this mechanism remains incomplete .
consultations are currently confined to the two countries , while failing to guide guidelines for consultation – and not to demand any final agreement on arms exports .
the effectiveness of this consultation mechanism is extremely difficult to assess .
according to a common position clause , one would have to consult with other member states that previously refuse to grant a similar license to permit a similar license .
but the relevant provisions are not clear .
more important , it does not require that exporting countries consult with other countries that might be concerned about the exports .
the question of arms exports to third countries has always plagued the eu .
at the heart of the problem is the core interests of the member states ’ interests – the competition among european arms producers , and the strategic importance of defense markets – and the lisbon treaty , which focuses on strengthening and consultation mechanisms .
if we want the spirit of the lisbon treaty , solidarity must be viewed as an important political tool , with a european defense policy that serves the collective interests of the collective good .
the pursuit of national policies on technology transfer is contrary to the goal .
it is therefore necessary to articulate a clearer definition of the consultative mechanism , and eu member states that export arms must consult with all stakeholders , not just those that have issued ( or banned ) licenses .
by agreeing on the predictability and stability of third countries ’ actions , the eu could finally build a common policy toward arms exports .
but the process of establishing a common policy toward third countries is not isolated , but also a common and internationally competitive european defense market .
this means that cooperation with non-eu countries can not be undermined by cooperation and common principles within the eu .
consultations will help to defuse misperceptions – often in the media ’ s 添油加醋 , even though transactions are far from being reached – and thus strengthen solidarity among eu members .
the eu should play a more important role in situations where member states disagree .
for example , member states can consult on sensitive or contentious issues within political and security committees .
this would strengthen the eu council ’ s common position , which has already raised some principles for the export controls on military technology and equipment .
for nato , the question of the alliance ’ s deliberations has been defined by the north atlantic treaty ’ s april 4 declaration : “ whenever any one party believes it is full of a country ’ s territory , political independence or security is threatened . ”
but article 4 is just about imminent threats .
the decision by a nato member state can affect other allies .
military equipment and technology transfer in third countries could affect regional security , and therefore will be reassessed .
the north atlantic council can certainly serve as a forum for increased solidarity among member states , and to avoid misperceptions and avoid misperceptions .
at the bottom , the political and partnership committees and/or national military chiefs can be used as preliminary consultations .
these issues are at stake in all of these countries , so discussion should not be confined to two countries .
given that arms trade and technology transfer will undoubtedly lead to many moral and ethical questions , it must also be discussed openly and strengthened .
solidarity can not be achieved if many important institutions are excluded .
toward a world of immunization
abu 纽约 york – for a child , vaccination vaccines are just a few tears ( perhaps a few tears ) .
but these moments are crucial to enabling him to start a healthy starting point for health , and to make progress on global health and development goals .
together with the abu dhabi 阿勒纳哈扬 al Zayed al thani , we will say the great significance of a global summit to ensure that all children gain access to vaccines , which will be held this week in abu dhabi .
vaccines protect people for lifelong protection .
they are the cheapest investments in the world .
vaccines have eradicated smallpox , eradicated polio , and saved millions of children from measles , diphtheria , tetanus , and other deadly diseases .
thanks to the vaccine ’ s role , the number of children dying before five years old died from 2000 to 2001 , and it was achieved in terms of a massive increase in the planet ’ s population .
disease will erode the most of the world ’ s closest : people ’ s energy and talent .
the costs are particularly high for poor countries seeking to gain a foothold in the global economy .
and when children are healthy , households can escape from heavy health care , and spend more money on food and education .
healthy children can attend school and acquire better learning capabilities , and become more productive adults .
new research shows that vaccines improve the cognitive development of children , improve labor productivity , and help a country ’ s overall economic growth .
but more than 22 million children lack access to basic vaccines , and the basic vaccines are granted benefits for high-income countries .
these children live in the poorest and most remote communities , and the risk of disease is highest .
children born in low-income countries are 18 times more likely to die before their fifth birthday than children in high-income countries .
ending this inequity is the largest and most successful project in history – the millennium development goals .
in 2000 , leaders gathered in the united nations for eight millennium development goals , agreed to reduce extreme poverty and hunger , fight water security , improve water security , and more rights , expand access to education , and empower girls and women .
the achievement is remarkable , but much remains to be done – and now is not nearly 1,000 days away .
the increase in global immunization coverage will accelerate the development of the millennium development goals and create momentum for the post-2015 development agenda .
representatives of the world health assembly , representing the world health organization ’ s 194 member states , agreed on a shared vision of a vaccine that has been called a decade of vaccines – a decade of vaccines – to create a world without vaccines , and the entire benefits of immunization are reaching everyone , regardless of who is , where .
eradicating polio will be a milestone on this vision .
the summit will launch a new , comprehensive plan , and the world will have a clear roadmap to build a polio-free world in 2018 .
the plan goes hand in hand with the overall effort to improve immunization coverage of measles , pneumonia , and rotavirus .
indeed , we are witnessing a strong immune system to protect our fight against polio in the fight against polio , providing access to the world ’ s most vulnerable mothers and children , for new vaccines and basic health services .
if we succeed , we will save 20 million lives by the end of 2000 , prevent nearly a billion disease , and save $ 120 billion alone .
and , in the process of lifting people out of the disease burden , we can unlock immeasurable human potential .
the millennium development goals and a decade of vaccines have shown that the goal of working together will have far-reaching differences .
they demonstrate the strength of cooperation among the un , governments , development agencies , civil society , foundations , and the private sector .
let us start with a shared vision that promises to achieve all our children ’ s access to a fair start with vaccines .
this generation will thank us – as will the next generation .
arrogance and authority
washington , dc – the recent hearing is that the heads of the us and european central banks have done what they did in the 2007-2008 crisis : “ we have done well .
in their view , the government ’ s behavior to help stabilize the financial system has helped to stabilize the situation .
and what can be blamed for the us federal reserve ’ s asset purchases , which have since turned to the us treasury ( and then to the us treasury ) ?
but it is problematic to define this issue in the sense that it is a mistake to say that the short delusion is misplaced ; and , in the end , it would create an arrogance of arrogance and the ultimate erosion of the central bank ’ s authority .
indeed , the real cost of that crisis can not be measured by profit losses from any central bank , or by a series of actions by the us treasury ’ s troubled asset relief program .
if the real costs were to be taken , the us loses 800 million jobs , and employment fell by 6 % from the peak – the difference between the two largest and the worst of the recession after 1945 .
another cost is the increase in net federal government debt in the hands of the private sector – the most accurate measure of government debt .
with the us congressional budget office ( in january 2008 ) and the post-crisis forecast in the aftermath of the crisis , the increase in the volume of the debt amounts to an astonishing 40 % of gdp .
indeed , the cause of the fiscal crisis that led to america ’ s current fiscal crisis ( and the prospect of a further reduction in government spending ) is simple : the crisis in the united states has made the us public costly , and a huge negative impact on the global scale .
much of the public debt in the us and other countries is not the result of unbridled fiscal stimulus , but from the tax cuts that have triggered the recession ( plus the bush administration ’ s tax cuts for the richest , and the country ’ s long-term fiscal policy , which has kept the country ’ s budget on the top ) .
the final cost is millions of homeless people and livelihoods , some of which will have some impact on their entire lives .
but the problem is not whether the fed or other central banks should seek to prevent the collapse of their banking systems .
if the consequences of the banking crisis are to be understood , the best example is the 1930 ’ s ( and that of bernanke ’ s research field ) .
if there are two options for any particular period : either the government is bailed out or letting it collapse , the former will be the choice .
but , more broadly , just as the president of the federal reserve bank of atlanta has pointed out last week at a public forum organized by the organization of the organization , we should not attempt to run a banking system built on “ private gain , ” much less in the form of “ private gain , ” which is largely inefficient .
by contrast , the private gain can be measured directly by executive compensation .
from 2000 to 2008 , the managers of the us ’ s 14 financial institutions received a total of $ 26 billion of cash grants ( including wages , dividends , and stock sales ) .
by now , the top five of the top income has been collected by nearly $ 2 billion , and they happened to be the result of creating the entire risky structure of assets and pushing the financial system to the brink of an abyss : 花旗集团 花旗集团 , a major driver of the us treasury , and the us treasury and bear ( lehman brothers and bear stearns ) .
the public ’ s losses are enormous : if only the federal government ’ s debt growth is assessed , perhaps $ 6 billion would be .
but the bank bosses insist that they should be allowed to run a more leveraged global business , and pay for their compensation – regardless of risk – to pay for them .
there are some of the world ’ s most top independent financial researchers , and we have seen such issues in the long run , and we have studied the situation in recent years , according to anat admati of stanford business school .
in their view , big banks should have more reserves – roughly 30 % of their capital .
but bankers are strongly opposed to this advice ( because they may well reduce their income ) , while central bankers hold similar positions ( they are persuaded by bankers ) .
with an independent central bank run by professionals from the political class , there are many benefits .
but when those who govern in the financial institutions insist that they are doing well in the crisis , claiming that all problems will be resolved , allowing the financial behemoths of the crisis to go unpunished , their credibility will inevitably be undermined .
all of this should worry central bankers , because their credibility is all they are .
congress has created the fed , and can dissolve it .
by ignoring the damage that large leveraged banks can create , a crisis of “ bad things ” is a symptom of the mounting political pressure on central banks .
artificial intelligence and globalization
today ’ s conventional wisdom is that the rise of india and china will be the only important factor driving global jobs and wages in the twenty-first century .
wealthy workers in rich countries will see the erosion of their competitive edge in the hands of a highly managed contender from asia , latin america , and even one day in africa .
this is a good thing , full display of power politics and a dramatic human life .
but i want to know that there will be another factor in the coming decades whether there is another factor for our careers : the exponential growth of ai applications .
i have a narrow range of contacts with ai : for more than 500 years of chess .
you may have no interest in chess , long considered the ultimate intellectual movement .
even so , the remarkable developments of the chess world over the past decade have been enough to raise your attention .
chess has been the centerpiece of research in ai .
although in principle , chess is solvable , its calculations are far more complicated than anyone ’ s imagination .
it is only a slight exaggeration to say that the methods that played out in chess games are more than atoms in the universe .
for most of the twentieth century , programmers were conspicuously unsuccessful in designing chess computers that could compete with the top human .
the intuition , imagination , and sequencing of human chess master can easily outweigh the brute force of computers .
the computer was gradually progressive , but it is still far from that of the top humans .
so we think .
then , in 1997 , when it was destined to be remembered as a historical milestone for modern human history , ibm ’ s “ deep blue ” computer had triumphed over world chess champion kasparov kasparov .
perhaps a proud kasparov was more stunned than anyone , and he was sure that ibm ’ s team was bound to do so .
he told journalists that he felt “ the hand of god ” is guiding his computer opponent .
but the ibm team was not cheating .
by contrast , by combining the original software and powerful parallel capabilities , they have managed to create a real entity with silicon 晶片 , which is so sophisticated that the machine has so elaborate 技巧 skills that all of the world ’ s chess master ( including me ) has been stunned .
since 1997 , the computer has been so progressive that programmers could turn the fight against humanity as unimportant .
is it just a game ?
you may be right , but let me tell you : 30 years ago i had my career ( i represented my team in my dealings with the world champion chess champion ) , and i felt that i could know the personality of the man by looking at the person ’ s personality .
until recently , i can easily distinguish between computer and human opponents .
now everything has changed .
computer chess can even be simulation of well-known human players – including their shortcomings – that only a professional actor ( and sometimes the next computer ! ) can tell the difference .
more than a half-century ago , the godfather of artificial intelligence , alan turing , suggested that the brain ’ s function could be fully attributed to mathematics , and that one day the computer could reach human intelligence .
“ turing tests ” were the holy grail of ai research .
for me , chess plays a hard part .
and , in my view , today ’ s computer programs are almost certain to be almost trivial .
i find it difficult to see the difference in a number of games .
yes , today ’ s computers do not meet the level of the standard computer that stanley 布里克 布里克 , the 电脑 电脑 in the 2001 space , could achieve , let alone arnold schwarzenegger ’ s 阿诺德 机器人 .
but the level of the computers already is scary enough .
what will happen next ?
i see myself as unstable as a professor of economics .
i am not convinced that , later this century , people can buy pocket professors – perhaps with 教授 images – as they are today buying a pocket kasparov chess computer .
let us go back to india and china .
globalization grew rapidly in most of the last century , and almost two decades have been particularly rapid .
but most evidence suggests that technological change can be more effective than the development of global wage patterns .
that is , technology , not trade , is the theme of the twenty-first century economy ( of course , the two interact , trade stimulus technology , and technological diffusion , but it is a bit more 文字游戏 ) .
can we be sure that this century will change ?
will artificial intelligence replace the mantra of outsourcing and manufacturing migration ?
chess players have already known the answer .
education in the second machine age
munich – artificial intelligence has been confined to science fiction , but it is now changing our lives .
cars will drive themselves .
drones are programmed to deliver packages .
computers are learning to diagnose diseases .
the economists erik brynjolfsson and andrew mcafee have described these recent advances as examples of their so-called “ second machine age . ”
that name – the first machine age – suggests a epochal change .
indeed , if predictions are credible , these technological advances have a profound impact on our lives .
one widespread prediction is that as increasingly advanced robots replace workers , labor costs will become less important , and manufacturing will return to rich countries .
another forecast is that increasingly intelligent machines will reduce demand for advanced skills , and that the economic advantage of those skills will shrink .
the first of these two hypotheses remains far-fetched .
but there is evidence that the second hypothesis is becoming reality , with huge implications for the modern economy ’ s challenges .
to be sure , there are plenty of anecdotal evidence that “ reshoring ” – that is , the return of jobs from low- and middle-income countries to high-wage countries .
in a recent survey of 企业 companies in the eurozone ’ s 企业 companies , two-thirds said that some 动作 moves have been implemented over the past year , and 50 % said that they were prepared to do so next year .
but there is no sign of reshoring .
in fact , the trend is still in the opposite direction .
offshore has fallen since the 2008 global financial crisis , but then rebounded , accelerating the pre-crisis level .
the return of manufacturing to rich countries is still a prediction , not an outcome .
evaluating the second hypothesis is more complicated .
at first glance , the evidence supports the possibility of falling demand for advanced skills .
in the last 17 years , there have been less wage differentials between skilled workers and unskilled workers in all western countries than in the us and germany .
one possible explanation is that european education levels exceed the pace of technological change , and the advanced skills are excessive .
in austria , the proportion of people with a university degree or the equivalent grew by 250 % between 1996 and 2012 .
in the united kingdom and italy , that share has nearly doubled .
in spain , the ratio is 70 % , and france is 60 % .
by contrast , the share of 拥有者 ratios in the us and germany has increased by just 25 % .
but another possibility that the wage gap between skilled and unskilled workers reflects the increasingly intelligent nature of machines .
here , the us is a classic .
america ’ s educational attainment enrollment rate has increased only slightly since the turn of the century , so we should expect the wage gap to rise sharply , as it did in the 1980s and 1990s .
on the contrary , the wage gap is largely unchanged , adding to the unemployment rate for skilled workers , which doubled in the us and the united kingdom in 2011-2012 .
before the 1980 ’ s , about 70 % of income belonged to labor income , and 30 % were capital income .
but , since then , the share of income per labor has declined in all rich countries .
today , that share is 58 % of gdp .
according to research by economist lucas 卡拉 and brent neiman , half of the decline is attributable to cheaper information technology , with access to information technology replacing workers with computers .
the implications are serious .
if these are indeed the first signs of the second machine age , we may be fighting a false war .
as the scarcity of human capital becomes increasingly important , rapid education may not be the answer to globalization ’ s challenges , as we want .
the promise and pitfalls of ai
brussels – as with any revolutionary trend , the rise of artificial intelligence ( ai ) poses a major opportunity and difficult challenge to address .
but the gravest risks are not the most often discussed .
according to a recent study by the mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) , ai has the potential to increase overall economic productivity considerably .
even given the transition costs and competition effects , it could increase total output by $ 13 trillion by 2030 , while increasing global gdp by about 1.2 % per year .
perhaps the most problematic issue in artificial intelligence is that its future will likely replace more jobs than it creates .
but , according to the mckinsey global institute , the adoption of ai may not have a significant impact on net employment .
by 2030 , additional investment in the sector could contribute 5 % of jobs , while the extra wealth created could drive up demand for labor and increase employment by 12 % .
but , while the overall picture is optimistic , there is no good news .
for starters , the benefits of ai may take time – especially in terms of productivity .
in fact , mgi ’ s research suggests that ai ’ s contribution to growth could be five times higher than that of the next five years by 2030 .
this outcome aligns with the so-called solow computer paradox : productivity gains lag behind technological advances – a notable phenomenon during the digital revolution .
partly because , initially , economies faced high levels of travel and transformation costs , which tend to be ignored by research on the impact of ai .
mgi ’ s simulation shows that these costs will account for 80 % of potential benefits in the next five years , and to about one-third of potential gains by 2030 .
another troubling potential feature of the ai revolution is that the benefits that it produces are unlikely to be equitably distributed .
the resulting “ ai divide ” would reinforce the digital divide ’ s gap between economic inequality and disruption .
these differences may come from three areas .
the first difference is likely to emerge at the company level .
the innovative frontier firms that fully adopt ai technologies could double their cash flows by 2030 – a result that could well lead to hiring more workers .
these firms will be far removed from companies that are unwilling or unable to adopt ai technologies at the same rate .
in fact , firms that do not adopt ai technologies may be able to drop around 20 % of cash flows because of loss of market share , leaving them vulnerable to layoffs .
the second difference concerns skills .
the proliferation of ai technologies will enable labor demand to shift away from repetitive tasks that can easily be automated or outsourced to more social or cognitive drivers .
the mckinsey global institute shows that jobs characterized by repetitive operations and low digital skill are likely to fall from 40 % of employment to only about 30 % by 2030 .
at the same time , the work of 重复性 labor or high-level digital technologies is likely to rise from about 40 % to more than 50 % .
such a shift could lead to a widening wage gap , with about 13 % of total wage payments likely to shift to 重复性 jobs that require high levels of digital technology .
workers who are engaged in repetitive and 数字 positions may experience wage stagnation or even decline , causing them to fall from 33 % to about 20 % .
the third ai divide is already evident among countries , and is set to widen further .
these countries , most of them developed in developed countries , define themselves as ai leaders , and are likely to gain 20-25 % of the extra economic revenue from today ’ s than today , while emerging economies may increase by only 5-10 % .
advanced economies have a significant advantage in ai applications , because they can go further in implementing previous digital technologies .
they also have powerful incentives to use ai technology : low productivity growth , population aging , and relatively high labor costs .
by contrast , many developing economies have inadequate digital infrastructure , with weak innovation and investment capacity , and lack a strong technological basis .
add to that a low low-wage motivation and ample room for productivity catch-up , and these economies seem unlikely to keep pace with ai applications .
the rise and expansion of these ai divides are not inevitable .
at the same time , companies can play a more active role in supporting education upgrading and continuous learning in order to ensure that they meet changing demand needs .
moreover , the existence of these differences is not necessarily negative .
redistributing resources to a better business can make economic development healthier , enabling them to compete more strongly with competition from other countries .
but the risks posed by these differences must not be underestimated .
foresight and perseverance are critical to the success of the ai revolution , because it will create short-term pain before the long-term benefits are .
if these suffering occurs in the context of an ai penetration rate , and frustrated by people ’ s frustrations , the backlash against technology is likely to lead to strong resistance to technology , which is a virtuous cycle of productivity , income , and employment needs .
the promise of ai in the developing world
london – a common misperception among observers of digital trends is that consumers in developing countries do not benefit from technological advances .
whether there is a 最新款 or “ hiring ” robot , the ability to acquire innovation is one of the most visible differences between rich and poor countries .
this gap has become even more pronounced because of the emergence of artificial intelligence .
for example , the vast majority of home “ smart 音箱 , ” such as amazon ’ s alexa , have gone to rich countries .
in 2017 , more than 80 % of global smart 音箱 出货量 went to north america .
but while technology may deepen global inequality , it can also mitigate global inequality .
this is because ai can achieve many appliances ’ inability to function ; it is also likely to revolutionize the way that health care , disaster mitigation , finance , logistics , education , and business services are achieved worldwide .
around the world , ai has begun to change developing countries .
in nepal , machine learning is mapping and analyzing post-earthquake reconstruction needs .
across africa , ai tutors are helping young students catch up to catch up .
humanitarian aid agencies use big data analytics to optimize the provision of supplies for refugees fleeing conflict and other hardships .
in my country , india , farmers use ai applications to improve crop yields and increase profits .
these innovations make us closer to achieving the sustainable development goals , which are reaching the united nations in eradicating poverty , eradicating health inequalities , increasing access to schooling , and combating global warming .
and ai can contribute only to a tiny fraction of what ai can contribute to human progress .
to harness ai ’ s power to drive development , we must find new ways to apply them .
in the right support , for example , they can transport medicines to remote hospitals in developing countries .
rwanda ’ s rural sector has already done so , the ministry of health and silicon valley tech startups , which have been working together to help find a message to the region ’ s clinics to achieve a text message , and in a few minutes .
since the initiative began in october 2016 , delivery time has been reduced by a factor of five , saving hundreds of lives .
nonetheless , while ai innovations like these are impressive , it is not for granted .
unless we can overcome the pervasive false fears that ai is more harm than good , the incredible progress that tech companies will bring to the global south will increasingly slow .
many measures can be taken to avoid this outcome .
first , programs like the united nations “ benign ai ” campaign aimed at achieving a dialogue about how to benefit from technology should be supported by policymakers .
but , most important , dialogue on ai development for humanitarian purposes can not be conducted only between aid organizations , charities , and governments .
technology investors must also be involved .
for too long , tech entrepreneurs focus on solving problems in the global north , while ignoring issues traditionally associated with developing countries .
but mobile technology is opening the door for new opportunities , with the goal of targeting ai solutions in places outside the west and beyond .
as a result , i founded a $ 100 million investment firm , which supports start-ups and robotic companies engaging in key social issues .
Rewired companies work with firms with machine consciousness – the ability of robots to understand and interpret the physical world .
companies that invest in our investments are committed to replicating human smell , the development of affordable prosthetics , and creating portable machines that improve manufacturing processes .
our goal is to fund the potential firms to improve the quality of life everywhere .
i believe that this will be ai ’ s unifying characteristic .
the machines that we create today can not only be profitable ; it is also a step closer to solving some of the world ’ s biggest challenges .
economists and scientists differ over long-term growth
cambridge – most economic forecasters have largely ignored recent developments in artificial intelligence ( such as the great leap demonstrated by deepmind ’ s 自学 chess program last december ) , arguing that the impact on long-term growth has been minimal .
even if the us interest rate on ten-year bonds has risen by 0.5 % over the last few months , this pessimism is one reason why real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates are still very low .
if supply-side pessimism persists , america ’ s recent massive tax and spending programs could only further increase inflation , rather than boost investment .
even if the corporate tax rate is justified ( though there is still problems in terms of tax cuts ) , there is plenty of reason to oppose the recent us fiscal policy .
above all , we live in an era of growing inequality , and labor ’ s share of income is declining relative to capital .
governments need to do more – not less – to redistribute income and wealth .
it is hard to know what us president donald trump is thinking about when he declared that his policies will achieve up to 6 % growth ( unless he is talking about prices , not output ! ) .
but if inflationary pressure really becomes reality , the current growth may well be much longer than the forecasters and the city .
in short , the focus of economists ’ pessimism is long-term growth .
their stance is based on this belief : the advanced economies are unlikely to repeat the dynamism enjoyed by the us in 1995 , and in the early 1960 ’ s , much less in the days of the 1950s and 1960s .
but the doubters should consider the fact that many scientists from every domain are not .
young researchers , in particular , would argue that progress in basic science will be a long way off , even if it takes a long time .
in fact , a small but influential group has been advocating the “ singularity ” theory of the hungarian mathematician john von 诺依曼 ’ s “ singularity ” – so complex that they could become so complex that they could be invented in the absence of any other machines for intervention .
if so , perhaps we should worry about the ethical and social implications of faster material growth than human spirit can be acceptable .
the angst over ai focuses mainly on inequality and the future of work .
but just as science fiction writers have long warned us , the potential threat posed by the emergence of “ life ” forms to be feared .
it is not easy to know who is right : economists and scientists in the long term are 出过 .
but the future of productivity will be justified in the next five years if there is no possibility of an existential fight between man and machine .
in the last 10-15 years , the advanced economies have been flat in these three areas .
owing to falling birth rates , growth in the labor force has slowed sharply , and even the us , before trump came to power , can not count on immigration .
the influx of women into the workforce played an important role in promoting growth in the latter part of the twentieth century .
while governments can do more to support women ’ s participation and pay payments , this advantage is largely exhausted .
likewise , global investment since the 2008 financial crisis has collapsed , lowering potential growth .
at the same time , productivity growth has declined everywhere , in the run-up to the tech boom in the mid-1990 ’ s .
little wonder , then , that real interest rates in the global real world are so low , and the big post-crisis savings have become increasingly scarce .
the best option , however , is that ai and other new technologies will eventually have a greater impact on growth than they have so far .
it is well known that businesses may need a long time to redesign productive processes to use new technologies : railways and electricity are two major examples .
the rise in global growth could become a catalyst for change , creating incentives for businesses to invest and introduce new technologies , some of which will replace labor and thus offset the impact of slowing labor productivity .
with the fallout from the financial crisis fading , ai may start gaining traction , with us output growth likely to remain strong in the coming years ( and certainly recession ) .
for central bankers , the rise in real global interest rates could be tricky .
in the best of circumstances , they will be able to “ wave a wave , ” as alan greenspan famously did in the 1990 ’ s , despite having more inflation .
the bottom line is that neither policymakers nor markets should assume that slow growth in the past decade will be driven by the next .
but this is not a one-way good news .
if scientists are right , we may feel regret for ourselves .
charting the future of ai
brighton – artificial intelligence ( ai ) has played an important role in human economies and societies , and it will be even more important in the coming years .
as a result , the future of ai is to acknowledge that the future is ai .
this is partly due to progress in “ deep learning , ” which began with 多层 networks that began in the 1980s .
with today ’ s stronger computing power and storage capacity , deep learning has already been realistic , and in 2016 , in 2016 , a deep learning application was received worldwide .
business firms and governments alike want to pursue useful models in a variety of “ big data . ”
in 2011 , ibm ’ s watson marked another ai 分 , and it defeated two former champions in “ danger ! ” ( Jeopardy ! ) .
the game needs to combine general knowledge and horizontal thinking , another major development that is the emergence of “ the internet of things , ” and the internet of things will continue to grow as more devices , appliances , wearable devices , and public sensors are connected .
big brother will not look to you , but the trillion brothers may be watching you .
in addition to these innovations , we can expect to see countless examples of what we once called “ expert systems ” : ai applications in various professional areas and even replace human professionals .
likewise , robots will be able to perform tasks that could not be automated before .
as it stands , robots are already able to complete almost every effort at a warehouse floor .
given this trend , it is not surprising that some people predict that the so-called “ singularity , ” ai systems will outpace human intelligence and intelligently improve themselves .
for all of this , i say : dream of continued dream .
artificial general intelligence ( agi ) remains a pipe dream .
it is too difficult to master .
though it may one day be a reality , it certainly will not be the foreseeable future .
but we can still see several major developments , many of which make us hope for the future .
for example , ai can provide reliable legal advice to more people and cheaply .
it can help us treat the current 疾病 disease , expand access to credible health advice , and not increase medical specialists .
in other areas , we should be prudently pessimistic about the future – not to say dystopian .
ai has a worrying impact on military , personal privacy , and employment .
自动武器 has already existed , and it will ultimately have the capacity to select targets .
as governments and multinationals become increasingly prone to big data , our personal information is increasingly dangerous .
and as ai takes over more routine activities , many professions will be 技能 and replaced .
the nature of the work itself will change , and we may need to consider providing a “ universal income ” if the tax base is still sufficient .
another , but equally worrisome , impact is that it could become a substitute for one-on-one contact with one-on-one human beings .
to take a daily example , imagine that you want to make a phone call , but they are automatically selected .
sometimes , you trouble simply because you can not get the answers you need without a human intelligence intervention .
or you ’ m betting on your mood , because you are no longer able to express your sense of your fellow people , and humans can understand your emotions even with you .
other examples are not so daily , and i am particularly worried about computers that serve as “ 看护 ” or “ 陪伴 . ”
to be sure , ai systems that provide an ai system that provides personalized apps can remind and entertain those who are , and can be monitored , an important signal of these people ’ s vital signs when necessary .
domestic robots can do great useful good on a refrigerator ’ s food and completing other household tasks .
but whether the ai system can provide genuine care or 陪伴 is another matter .
those who believe that this may be possible feel that natural-language processing is capable .
but “ tasks ” also include emotional conversations about personal memories .
ai systems may be able to identify limited feelings in human terms , 声调 , pause , and expressions of expressions , but it can not match the proper human response .
i might say that “ you are sorry for sad , ” or “ that is a good thing ! ”
but either phrase is literally meaningless .
a restless person may be “ comforted ” by such words , but how does human dignity pay ?
the alternative , of course , is to keep humans in these roles .
instead of replacing people , robots are human assistants .
ideally , these jobs should receive more respect and remuneration in the future .
but perhaps that is wishful thinking .
ultimately , ai ’ s future ( ai ) – our ai future – is bright .
but the brighter it is , the greater the shadows .
an ai wake-up call from ancient greece
stanford – in discussions about the impact of artificial intelligence ( ai ) , some have always shown the ancient greek myth of pandora ’ s box .
in the modern myth of this story , pandora ’ s image was a tragically curious young woman who opened a sealed jar , which is not careful about the eternal suffering of humans .
like the genie that escaped the bottle , the 马匹 of the horse and the 马匹 , the train of the 站台 , the myth has become obsolete .
but the story of real pandora is well suited to debates about ai and machine learning .
it teaches us that the best listen to the “ 普罗米修斯 ” of humanity ’ s future , rather than the “ 厄庇墨 ” that can easily be blinded by short-term interests .
as one of the oldest greek myths , the story of pandora was first documented for more than 2,500 years ago .
in the original narrative , pandora was not the innocent girl who was tempted to open a forbidden jar .
instead , the poet 赫西奥 told us that pandora was “ made , not born . ”
pandora was a universal order , orchestrated by the god of the invention of the god of invention , a cruel paradigm , and a 迷人 of teenage girls .
her mission was to 诱骗 凡人 and show that weakness is 劣根性 : “ 红颜 . ”
pandora ’ s name is known as “ all gifts , ” suggesting that the gods is a product of the gods .
her 于赫淮 炼炉 , 赫尔墨斯 护送 , a 神魂颠倒 “ woman ” to the earth , sent her bride to 透斯 .
her dowry was the fateful sealed jar containing more “ gifts . ”
epimetheus was the brother of prometheus , who led the way – and stories that he created – humanity .
prometheus fears the obvious flaws of humans , so the church and woman are responsible for using fire and other tools responsibly .
but this angered zeus , a splendid technology that he views as a secure preserve .
as punishment , zeus bound prometheus to a rock on a rock , sending his 老鹰 老鹰 – and the 自赫淮 pot – to his liver .
as for pandora , she was deliberately devised to punish humanity for accepting the gift of prometheus .
in essence , she is a seductive ai ai , without parents , childhood memories , and no emotions , or any emotions that will not be lost .
her setting was to complete a vicious mission : 潜伏 the 罐子 and 封印 the jar .
but that is not the whole story .
帕累托 tells us that prometheus ’ s name is “ foresight , ” because , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , he was always looking forward .
普罗米修斯 , prometheus , and more paranoid , he tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus ’ s dangerous gift .
but epimetheus has been silenced by pandora , with no defensive 防备 to her life .
as a result , pandora ’ s popular image , alarmed by the panic , is a modern invention .
the same is true of hope that hope is from the vessel to appease humanity ’ s soul .
in classical greek 戏曲 , pandora ’ s image was a cunning machine : the most famous pandora ’ s 瓶绘 瓶绘 sent her to a young woman , with a 神秘莫测 smile .
moreover , in ancient times , the hope is that a young woman called 厄尔 , often a young woman who lacks foresight .
it is not a blessing for hope , but rather a symbolic choice that can not be contemplated or made in possible outcomes ; she represents wishful thinking , not a optimistic optimism .
for the greeks , she is just another symptom of a 劣根性 劣根性 : the beautiful monster on the release of humans .
thus , at least one ancient artist would like 皮斯 画得 , a 潘多拉 , with a 傻笑 .
学习 learning is rapidly evolving into a “ black box ” technology , and the symbols of pandora ’ s sealed jar have new meaning .
soon enough , ai decision-making systems ’ operational logic is not only understandable , but even creators can not understand .
as with other threats , the ai system is being captured by malign intrusions or by terrorists and tyrants .
as the McAfee 丽丽 of mit , microsoft ’ s founder , and other ai optimists , the facebook founder ’ s andrew mcafee , and other ai optimists , like we guarantee , ai will have enormous benefits , but we should recall the 厄庇墨 and 厄尔 .
should we really trust humanity to adjust and address the problems posed by ai ?
it seems more sensible to listen to contemporary prometheus , such as the late stephen hawking , microsoft founder bill gates , and 115 other tech leaders who spoke to the threat of weaponized ai and robotics in 2017 .
“ there is little time to act , ” they warned , “ once the pandora ’ s box is opened , it is impossible to close . ”
moreover , these concerns were echoed by artificial intelligence , such as google co-founder sergey 布林 and 乔 布 and patrick 林 , who warned that ai ’ s gift to the gift of ai must be put in place .
according to recent polls , optimism about the potential benefits of ai has fallen dramatically , according to those who actually develop ai systems .
an understanding of the principles of ai will produce more realistic expectations .
rather than blindly hoping , foresight based on knowledge and experience should determine how we manage the future of this technology and its relationship with our relationship .
at the cusp of the ai revolution
san francisco – over the last three decades , consumers have benefited from exciting technological advances .
in many countries , the personal computer that most people live in the pockets of the early 1980 ’ s was more productive than it was in the 1980 ’ s .
Atari computers , which i use to develop the games , had a ， computer with 3,500 transistors ; today , my iphone is running up to two billion transistors .
at the time , a gigabyte of storage cost $ 100,000 , and the size of a refrigerator ; today it spends almost no money and measured in millimeters .
even with so much progress , we can still expect faster progress in the entire planet – including all things – in the internet .
more than a half-billion people have access to mobile devices , and more than three billion people could access the internet .
over the next few years , 500 billion things – from light bulbs to refrigerators , roads , and clothing – will link the internet to the internet .
in every generation , emerging technologies will converge , with a revolutionary technology that is born .
for example , sophisticated internet , cheap bandwidth , and 文件 , together with apple ’ s iconic iphone , enabled companies like uber , airbnb , youtube , facebook , and twitter to redefine their facebook experience .
now we are on the cusp of another large-scale integration : big data , machine learning , and rising computing power will soon make ai ( ai ) ubiquitous .
so , as the world itself becomes increasingly complex , ai will become the defining technology of the twenty-first century , as it did in the twentieth century .
consumers are already dealing with ai every day .
google uses machine learning to optimize searches , and often can accurately predict what someone is looking for .
facebook and amazon use predictive algorithms to make recommendations based on their users ’ reading or buying .
artificial intelligence is the motor of driverless cars – which can now avoid collisions and traffic congestion – and artificial intelligence , like google deepmind ’ s DeepMind system , defeated south korea ’ s 围棋 高手 , a computer that defeated south korea ’ s 围棋 李世石 .
given the widespread application of ai , all firms today must integrate their products and services into their products ; otherwise , they will not compete with companies using data to improve their users ’ experience and 辅助 business decisions .
the next generation will grow with digital technologies , which will expect companies to anticipate their needs and provide real-time , personalized responses .
so far , ai is so costly that many companies are hard to use best applications .
it is difficult to integrate its integration into business , and history has historically required data scientists to acquire complex technologies .
as a result , many businesses still make important decisions about intuition rather than information .
all of this will change in the next few years , as ai becomes increasingly accessible , making each company , every employee smarter , and more effective .
machine-learning algorithms can analyze billions of signals , thereby distributing customer service calls automatically to the best agents , or identifying some customers who are most likely to purchase a particular product .
and ai ’ s applications are not limited to online retailing : the real shops still account for 90 % of retail industry in retail stores .
soon enough , the customer ’ s entry into a car would be greeted by computer chat robots , which can be expected to recommend products based on past purchases , providing special discounts and processing customer service issues .
progress in the area of so-called “ deep learning ” ( ai subsidiaries ) , which mimic the artificial intelligence network ( ai network ) , could enable smart digital assistants to base their clients ’ planning vacations , or determine their customers ’ 反应 vacation , or determine their customers ’ response to one brand .
in health care , deep learning algorithms can help doctors identify epigenetic cells in real time in real time , from anywhere in the world .
to use ai effectively , businesses must remain focused on privacy and security .
with artificial homo sapiens based on data , the more personal data that machines know , the more accurate the customer ’ s prediction will be .
but , of course , such massive flows of personal information could violate customer trust .
companies must use their personal data to use their personal data .
ai can also detect and defend digital security breaches , play a key role in protecting users ’ privacy and building trust .
like past economic transitions , ai will unleash new levels of productivity , strengthen individual and professional careers , and propose the existence of an ancient relationship between people and 机器间 .
ai and workers disrupt industries and workers when they perform their tasks automatically .
but , like the internet two decades ago , ai will improve existing jobs and generate new opportunities .
we should be aware of this , and to adapt to tomorrow ’ s environment by training and creating safety nets for the old ones .
ai has a long way to go beyond human ingenuity .
the first six decades after the advent of john mccarthy and the father of artificial intelligence and artificial intelligence , the concept of ai has passed over the last six decades , only to recognize the best route to youtube video in the youtube video .
we can be sure that technological innovation will be more rapid than many generations before .
ai will be like the current 电流 , but it is full of our lives .
employment in the age of artificial intelligence
washington , dc – pressing questions abound .
there are 1.6 billion people living in extreme poverty ; some 7.8 million adults are illiterate .
the grim problem extends beyond developing the developing world : “ desperate deaths ” raise death rates for white males in the us .
even if advanced economies grow , they are not everyone .
high-income groups are becoming increasingly good , while lower-income households and minorities have been falling behind .
some analysts argue that new forms of computer programming will exacerbate these developments , which will destroy the middle class , robotics , and self-driving cars , and worsen inequality .
even the 总称 of such technologies – artificial intelligence – sounds ominous .
the human brain may be the “ most complex object in the known universe , ” but , as a species , we are not always collective intelligence .
best-selling science fiction writers have long predicted that we will someday invent our machines .
technologies that create this dystopian future may not even be in the shadows .
but recent breakthroughs in artificial intelligence technologies do provide the potential for significant positive progress in a range of applications from transportation to education and medicine .
our computing power can help the planet and its most vulnerable citizens .
we can now find a new model that is less easily detected for observers of human observers – a way that has brought down energy consumption and co2 emissions .
we can increase the efficiency of our factories and reduce food waste .
more broadly , we can improve forecasting outcomes far more than usual .
in many activities , 的 warning can play a large role , and even save lives .
but fear remains : does these improvements mean abandoning all jobs – or most of the good jobs ?
in fact , there is no chance of job distress for three reasons .
the first is 莫拉维 paradox .
hans 莫拉维 and other computer scientists pointed out in the 1980s that things are easy to do for us , and it is difficult for the most advanced ai to be difficult ; conversely , ai often can easily do what we think .
most people can walk , manipulate objects , understand complex language in the early age , and never have to pay attention to how much to do and energy .
smart machines can do so far more than humans , but they can not easily jump above chairs , open doors , and navigate a valve .
a soccer ball can not play a soccer game .
second , today ’ s algorithms are adept at 模式识别 , if they can provide big data sets – such as identifying a youtube video in a youtube video – but they would be significantly less efficient if they meet the unconventional environment that is inconsistent with conventional models , or simply “ noise ” or “ noise . ”
to do so , you need skilled people to use his experience , intuition , and social consciousness .
third , the latest system can not explain what they have done , or why they recommend action .
in these “ black boxes , ” you can not read code to analyze what is happening or check whether there is hidden bias .
in the case of a 解释性 – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained person in the decision-making loop .
but the nature of work will change .
today ’ s jobs are different from 50 or even 20 years ago .
and the new computer algorithm takes time to penetrate the economy fully .
rich industries , such as digital media and e-commerce , have just begun to unleash the capabilities created by ai .
the emergence of a narrow ai application that could affect jobs in sectors such as health care , education , and construction may be a long time horizon .
indeed , it may be time – an aging population in advanced economies that will reduce labor in the coming decades – and the need for personal care will increase .
public policy debates will affect the ai age .
we need opportunities and competition , not a powerful monopolist ’ growth , so that technological progress will not leave many people behind .
this will require improving access to various forms of education – and at low cost , at low cost – for education .
as competitors from advanced economies , including china , invest heavily in ai , policymakers should strengthen support for basic research , ensuring that countries have the physical and human resources needed to invent and manufacture them .
we should not underestimate humanity ’ s ability to inflict damage on our societies , the environment , and even the entire planet .
perhaps one day , apocalyptic fiction writers will be vindicated .
but , at the moment , we have a powerful tool for enabling all people to live better lives .
we should use it wisely .
the russian spring ?
paris – russia is not egypt .
russia is not on the eve of a revolution in cairo just a year ago .
indeed , russia ’ s government has plenty of assets , and former egyptian president hosni mubarak ’ s regime does not have a strong asset .
russia is a energy superpower , at least in a sense that russia could open its own humiliation to its citizens ’ humiliation in order to ease the results of the recent judicial election .
moreover , not all russians are in the streets .
it is this effect that led many to believe that the young protesters in cairo ’ s tahrir square could represent the entire egyptian society , which they do not represent .
egypt ’ s rural people are much like russia ’ s rural people .
they are much more conservative than young elites , whose young elites have lost their social media to the world ’ s attention through protests that protest social development .
moreover , mubarak is old and sick , and no longer trusted people .
putin , by contrast , has good health , with dynamism and dynamism , and he may convince many of the people of russia ’ s social classes , who care about the national honor rather than its citizens ’ happiness .
putin may , however , have too much emphasis on his macho rhetoric , which could backfire , leading to the isolation of russian cities and more educated voters .
but , even if tens of thousands of demonstrators are likely to threaten the survival of putin ’ s regime , the kremlin should be wise , taking them seriously .
the current protesters ’ performance has been moderate , and the brutal repression of brutality becomes a very dangerous response .
beyond the violence , the russian authorities ’ failure to recognize the public ’ s growing alienation is likely to be a major historical test .
from the standpoint of condemning elites , at least partly , russian demonstrators reacted to the arab revolutions .
they publicly condemned the “ soviet election campaign , ” they opposed the combination of tyrants and corrupt regimes , which was a characteristic characteristic of the previous soviet regime .
this is particularly true of the experience of arab revolutionaries , as arab citizens tell libya , egypt , tunisia , syria , yemen , and other arab countries that the younger russian men are calling for putin ’ s “ step down . ”
from the standpoint of condemning elites , at least partly , russian demonstrators reacted to the arab revolutions .
they publicly condemned the “ soviet election campaign , ” they opposed the combination of tyrants and corrupt regimes , which was a characteristic characteristic of the previous soviet regime .
this is particularly true of the experience of arab revolutionaries , like arab citizens telling libya , egypt , tunisia , syria , yemen , and other arab countries , whose young russians demanded that putin “ step down . ”
most important , they want to control putin ’ s rights .
however , their protests may result in a ironic outcome , with two of russia ’ s top political tasks , medvedev , and , like the plan , returning to prime minister .
in the eyes of too many russians , this game of “ musical 交椅 ” is too often too frequent .
the demonstrations not only stunned russian leaders , but also the vast russian citizens .
they didn ’ t realize that globalization – particularly the information of information – has made the world unprecedentedly transparent and interconnected . the protesters were affected by cairo protesters .
the protesters in paris have provided inspiration to the marchers in new york and 拉特 , which came to moscow .
one lesson can be learned , on the one hand , as the economic crisis worsened ; on the other hand , because global linkages are unique , they may be viewed as intolerable .
this applies to russia .
russia has long regarded itself as a “ white africa . ”
russia ’ s population expectancy is lower than it is 60 , which is closer to africa , not europe ( or even a majority of asian countries ) .
in many russian aristocrats , corruption is common , and the disastrous habits and many of the disastrous habits of many in africa are similar .
but the comparison has limits .
despite many problems in africa , africa is now a continent of hope .
its population is exploding , and growth rates are exploding .
senegal ’ s companies are seeking ways to help their spanish business partners , while portugal ’ s oil-rich angola , a leader of portugal ’ s colonies , hosted nearly royal royal treatment .
africa is rising , and russia is heading toward decline .
twenty years ago , as democratic idealism emerged from the collapse of communism , the “ imperial pride ” was partly restored during putin ’ s thousand years .
but that may not be enough to offset russia ’ s poor behavior toward its citizens , whose message is simple : “ there is too much corruption and contempt for people , too much of it . ”
as in the arab world , russia needs modernization .
ben bernanke ’ s global legacy
washington , dc – the world continues to digest alan greenspan ’ s legacy in 1987 as chair of the federal reserve board .
so it is too early to see the legacy of his incoming successor , ben bernanke .
but the key international role that bernanke and the fed played during his tenure – and that of domestic economic weakness – should not be ignored .
we consider each .
whatever the impact of qe on the us economy , its impact on the rest of the world is generally modest .
the first round of qe was undoubtedly beneficial , because it minimizes , or eliminated , the tail risks of global depression after the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 .
to be sure , the fed ’ s subsequent actions have been mixed in the rest of the world .
in 2010 and 2011 , qe brought capital to emerging markets , fueling accusations of a form of currency manipulation in the us .
in may 2013 , bernanke signaled the possibility of an exit from qe , which led emerging economies to face the opposite pressure : capital outflows and sharp exchange-rate volatility .
in both cases , the fed ’ s complaint mostly reflects macroeconomic mismanagement in affected countries .
brazil , for example , has the largest capital base for capital inflows , because its currency is appreciating in a very short period , but the culprit is domestic wage increases and overheating , not the fed ’ s policy .
likewise , india suffers from bernanke ’ s suggestion that the fed would “ taper ” qe , but only because its economy has experienced high inflation and large budget and external deficits .
emerging markets seem to have forgotten that they are vulnerable to the fed ’ s policy implications , which they secure when they join financial globalization .
at the same time , the fed is well aware of its international responsibilities , which will play a constructive role by increasing the dollar ’ s liquidity during periods of extreme financial stress .
after the collapse of lehman brothers , the fed provided dollar liquidity to brazil , mexico , singapore , and the central bank of korea .
at the same time , it provided almost unlimited amounts of liquidity to european central banks and the bank of japan .
these actions have eased extreme tensions and corresponding market volatility .
the fed ’ s support for emerging-market central banks is remarkable , because most of these countries have not borrowed from the international monetary fund ’ s loans to the international monetary fund in the wake of the asian financial crisis of the 1990 ’ s .
these countries are more willing to deal directly with the us federal reserve by the federal reserve , and the fed clearly does not have the imf ’ s stigma .
in fact , the us federal reserve ’ s support , timing , and effectiveness has made the imf a similar mechanism .
the fed ’ s support for europe has also been remarkable , given that the rest of the us government was in fact left out of the eye – with no real cash to the eurozone ’ s distressed economies .
even efforts to increase the imf ’ s resources are lost because of the political gridlock in the us .
all other major economies , including the us , have adopted the legislation needed to strengthen the imf ; but , given congressional resistance , the us has never experienced similar moves since 2010 .
the fed has achieved extraordinary gains in a period of sustained us international leadership , a simple reason : though the us economy is weak , and american politics is paralyzed by polarization , demand for the dollar remains .
in this context , bernanke effectively used his role as a powerful dollar in the printing press known as the “ fed . ”
the dollar ’ s hegemony will not last forever , and it is already increasingly being challenged by the renminbi , which i have described in my book the erosion of china ’ s economic dominance .
but the residual power of american hegemony made bernanke a constructive and effective international leader .
as his departure , people began to give him the title of “ helicopter ben ’ s , ” because it injected large amounts of cash into the us economy .
but history will not forget the key global role of “ ambassador ben . ”
spain ’ s human-rights dilemma
new york – spain ’ s mps want a legislation to prevent some of spain ’ s judges from exercising the right to a similar license , in the spanish court to prosecute the human-rights abuses that occur around the world .
in a recent case , a spanish judge called for arrest warrants directed against former chinese president 蒋泽明 蒋泽明 and former state council prime minister 李鹏 李鹏 , who had been accused of 犯有罪行 in tibet .
spain ’ s mps have proposed a view that allowing a country ’ s prosecutors to sue for a country with no clear legal ties to spain would be to politicize the proceedings .
but the core principles underpinning these prosecutions are also important : the concept of universal jurisdiction .
in fact , this concept has a long history , and has a vital role to play in global human-rights protection action .
universal jurisdiction originated in the greek and roman eras of fighting piracy .
because pirates are acting on crime in the high seas , the high seas are the territorial enemy , so that they are enemies of humanity , and any country can prosecute them .
in the seventeenth century , dutch academic hugo Hugo , who was considered the drafters of international law , argued that pirates could be prosecuted in the interview , regardless of where their crime is .
following the vienna conference of vienna in 1815 , some countries have applied this concept to slave dealers , as well as many of their crimes outside national jurisdictions .
later , nazi crimes played a critical role in gaining broad acceptance of the concept of universal jurisdiction .
at the end of world war ii , nazi leaders fled and scattered across the world .
in countries such as canada and australia , countries such as canada and australia have made it possible to establish a state authority in their national courts in their own territory .
since then , this concept has been enshrined in treaties that nearly all countries have approved .
the 1949 geneva conventions call for countries to hunt for war crimes , and to prosecute them in their own courts and to extradite them to others who are prepared to prosecute them .
likewise , in 1984 , the 1984 convention against torture requires countries to establish their own jurisdiction to prosecute perpetrators of crimes in the country and to prosecute criminals who are not practicing their crimes .
at a time when universal jurisdiction is currently under key test in senegal , one of the continent ’ s brutal dictators , the ruler of chad in 1982 , the ruler of chad ( Hiss ) , was set to be indicted .
according to a survey committee , al-hanashi ’ s regime was guilty of torture and responsible for the deaths of some 40,000 people .
al-hanashi fled to senegal in a large part of the country ’ s property , with a comfortable life with a large family and key supporter .
for years , africa ’ s human rights activist , aided by human rights watch , has been working to 问责哈 breivik .
now , with the support of the african union , al-hanashi is finally taking the trial of his crimes in chad .
the us has taken action , and the victims of human-rights crimes in the country have filed civil suits against the perpetrators of the us .
in the early 1980 ’ s , a large number of us courts have ruled to provide compensation to the victims .
the common jurisdiction is commonly cited as being accused of war crimes , crimes against humanity , or genocide , but where criminal sites and sites are not located in the same country .
this is compatible with the principle that such crimes can not be safe haven .
if spain is to join this demand in law and provides some other reasonable connections , such as those in the victims , it will overcome the 伸得 of the judges ’ reach .
such reforms remain in the principles of justice that underpin the concept of universal jurisdiction .
china ’ s transformation
deng famously said in the late 1970 ’ s that , “ no matter the color of cat color , the color of mice is a good cat . ”
his words gave rise to china ’ s status quo : a division of traditional morality and increasingly 向 society .
there is nothing more vivid about this than the recent 电视 television show , a television show that is more vivid than the chinese audience .
the field ’ s work , guo 海藻 , is a 貌美 and simple girl , living near shanghai .
but the life of the shanghai city is far beyond her imagination .
“ why , then , is not the same thing as the world , people look at the city ’ s 光鲜 , ” guo 有天 有天 , who is wondering about his or her husband ’ s shoes at home .
suddenly , song – a handsome , handsome , and well 奥迪车 mayor – has emerged , telling mr. guo : “ no one will notice the 角落 corner . ”
song is a charismatic and 八面玲珑 man .
guo soon was 被 and successful .
sometimes it is difficult to make a phone call , and guo has pulled it into the hands of 宋 and 能力 .
soon after , she betrayed her boyfriend and invested in song ’ s arms .
when guo 海藻 争吵 in a bickering in a small taxi , she hoped , she would have wanted to buy a house by working hard to buy a family , and the ideal of a family to join a family .
she has been tempted by the shortcut that song promised , in order to turn out to be his own price for a large amount of money and a lavish apartment , and soon she was pregnant , so that song is also known to “ arrest mice . ”
the “ wo ju ” is in fact a novel , described in a 中国 china today , in which cities – especially shanghai – are soaring and real-estate mania have influenced the impact of the chinese younger generation .
through the program , the audience will feel how china ’ s dream is a matter of how the chinese dream is transferred from education and love , and that , in some cases , is changing chinese society .
these changes have created a new hope and despair in a generation of chinese old societies .
but , of course , the subtext is that if this unhealthy obsession with real estate leads to a pragmatism of love , it could also trigger a 地产 property bubble that worries many economics .
but , after all , this is a television show , and song , in the end , came to a hospital when he tired of his pregnancy , a car who rushed to a hospital in the hospital – and , in the end , the car ’ s 车子 .
all of this occurred after guo ’ s wife has a dramatic quarrel with song ’ s wife .
but , beyond the movie ’ s plot , “ wo ju ” has actually reawakened today ’ s chinese society : property , money , sex , cars , and power .
perhaps because the program has been too close to reality , the program has succeeded , and even attracted the attention of official media censorship .
indeed , the 剧对 ’ s ugly revelation , and the description of the chinese spirit today , is directly responsible for being banned from a television channel in beijing .
when the official press 鼓吹 confucian ethics in television movies , the ancient 典故 and 尚武精神 , the 蜗居 , covered the dark side of contemporary chinese society : official corruption , 包二奶 , and even 房奴 .
as song is proudly living with guo , “ so long as the problem is not the problem . ”
the program has also contributed to a lively debate .
many web sites and forums have launched a similar “ if you are guo guo , you will choose song and a house , or will you choose 小贝 ? ”
the survey of a large web site shows that 46 % chose the former , and 22 % chose the latter , which illustrates where today ’ s new generation of values is .
the traditional “ real love ” virtue is now replaced by pragmatism and a 不择手段 of young people .
after all , many netizens have suggested that , through this practical approach , isn ’ t it possible for many years ?
more recently , there was a 相亲 shenzhen 千万富翁 , which attracted more than 10,000 young women .
in today ’ s china , the gold marriage will certainly not be the first , or last .
the most interesting aspect of the “ wo ju ” concerns the fact that most viewers are not averse to song ’ s secretary of power .
indeed , while song is in the 反面人物 , he is viewed as a “ perfect choice . ”
the scientific method for sustainable development
paris – tens of thousands of people around the world recently marched on fact-based , rather than fictional , worldviews , the latest example of popular support science .
they understand that science really can save the world , because it can help us solve the biggest health and development problems .
these issues constitute the centerpiece of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) , which in 2015 agreed to a more prosperous , equitable , and healthy planet by 2030 .
the 17 sdgs include 169 specific targets , which constitute an ambitious agenda that aims to address all problems , from gender equality to sustainable cities and climate change .
in short , they provide an inclusive vision for sustainable development in the twenty-first century .
but integrity can be sacrificed as a result .
few people can speak to the sdgs , let alone explain how countries can achieve them in the next 13 years .
experts around the world – including this week ’ s gathering at the united nations ocean conference in new york – are setting their sights on their smaller objectives and goals .
integrating these efforts is still a daunting challenge .
if our leaders really want to achieve the vision of the world in the sdgs , we need a roadmap that guides them to complex policymaking areas .
scientists are ideal candidates for this roadmap , because they know how to make the right questions , design experiments , create evidence-based conclusions , and apply new information to known knowledge .
better , scientists are happy to share one another .
the international scientific council ( icsu ) recently convened 22 scientists in different areas – including oceanography , epidemiology , agronomy , and energy economics – to set the sdgs for world leaders .
by studying how different goals and targets relate to each other , we developed an independent research framework to help leaders prioritize priorities in their respective countries .
some sdgs are mutually reinforcing , and one of them will be easier to achieve other .
at the same time , there are some sdgs , and progress on a goal may be at the expense of other goals .
while we have long known that the sdgs are interconnected , the icsu study is the first time that it will be quantified .
for example , we chose four sdgs relating to hunger , health , energy , and ocean , and then identified all possible interaction between them and the goals of other large sizes .
then we developed a 系统 system , with a given set of goals or small targets that strongly advance another , with the goal of achieving a goal that would lead to another goal .
by applying this rating system to different sdg relationships , we can answer some important questions .
we can , for example , determine whether protecting the oceans will curb economic growth and urban development in a country and region .
and we can be sure whether increased agricultural output will make it harder for natural resources to manage ; or , whether expanding renewable-energy sources will deplete water supplies in dry water .
one exciting discovery we received is that most sdg targets are actually mutually reinforcing .
for example , helping the world ’ s poorest people escape traditional fuels such as firewood , charcoal , and animal dung would reduce the death and illness caused by air pollution , especially women and children .
and when different objectives are incompatible , policymakers can be adjusted according to need .
for example , we found that increasing agricultural yields could harm the oceans , if that exacerbates nutrition loss or other forms of pollution ; that , in turn , could undermine health and long-term food security .
moreover , the benefits of our approach are not just plain quantitative outcomes , because it brings together scientists from different disciplines .
this is not easy : scientists are critical consumers of information , and they do not always agree with one another .
breaking down disciplinary silos and bringing together different voices is a remarkable achievement .
it can serve as a model for leaders in government , business , and civil society .
so what can we learn from here ?
our analytical framework can help countries identify which sdgs benefit other goals , and which is the opposite .
in doing so , policymakers can prioritize priorities and investments ; clarification of existing resources and find budget gaps ; and establish mechanisms for sharing data and information across sectors .
more generally , each country needs to monitor progress on the sdgs and change its approach when needed .
this requires all policymakers to work together .
but the potential return on investment – at least for future generations – is immense .
whether science really can save the world remains to be seen .
but we know that scientists can put us in the right direction .
asean for 50
singapore – we live in a troubled age , where pessimism persists in most of the most prosperous areas of the planet .
many believe that the international order is unraveling .
some fear that a clash of civilizations is imminent , and even already .
but , in a bleak middle east , southeast asia offers a glimmer of hope for hope .
the region has made progress in recent decades , achieving peace and prosperity that previously could not be imagined .
and this success owes much to the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , which will mark 50th anniversary this month .
southeast asia is one of the world ’ s most diverse regions .
its 6.4 million people include 240 million muslims , 120 million christians , 150 million buddhists , and millions of hindus , 道教徒 , confucian , and communists .
indonesia , the region ’ s most populous country , has some 130 million people , while brunei is only 45 million .
singapore ’ s per capita income is high , $ 52,960 per year , and laos is 倍 .
this diversity has given southeast asia a serious disadvantage in creating regional cooperation .
when asean was founded in 1967 , many experts argued that it will not last for a few years .
at the time , southeast asia was a poor and problematic region , and british historians , fisher , called the balkans .
the vietnam war was not over , and the more war started .
many of the five non-communist countries that will form asean – indonesia , malaysia , the philippines , singapore , and thailand – see a domino crash as long as a neighbor , or mired in civil strife , would collapse .
but asean has broken these predictions into the world ’ s second successful regional organization , after the european union .
each year , the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) will have to deepen cooperation in areas such as education , health , and diplomacy .
asean signed free-trade agreements with china , japan , india , south korea , australia , and new zealand ( fta ) , and created an asean economic community .
as i argue in my new book the asean miracle , multiple factors have established the region ’ s success .
for starters , anti-communism provided powerful incentives for cooperation .
strong leaders , such as indonesia ’ s suharto , former malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad , and singapore ’ s founding father , lee kuan yew , have kept the organization together .
the us , china , and the united states , the strategic interests of the united states , china , and the member states in the late 1960 ’ s were right .
but even after the cold war ’ s end , the region was not in conflict with the balkans .
the association of southeast asian nations countries has maintained cooperative habits , and in the 1970s and 1980s , cooperation has become the norm in southeast asia .
indeed , asean ’ s previous communist enemies – cambodia , laos , and vietnam – decided to join .
so did myanmar , which ended decades of isolation .
asean ’ s policy of embracing myanmar has led to western criticism , but it helped lay the stage for a peaceful transition to military rule .
( in contrast , the west has taken an isolated policy toward countries like syria , which clearly can not achieve the same outcome . )
to be sure , asean is far from perfect .
in the short term , its actions are like a 螃蟹 – two steps forward , one step back , and a step forward .
but asean ’ s long-term success is undeniable .
its combined gdp increased from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 .
it is also the only reliable platform for geopolitical geopolitics in the asia-pacific region , with its unique capacity to convene all of the world ’ s great powers – from the united states and the eu to china and russia .
asean still faces serious challenges .
territorial disputes in the south china sea have created deep divisions , and the intensifying geopolitical rivalry between the us and china has led to greater cohesion .
domestic politics in countries like malaysia and thailand is increasingly chaotic .
but asean ’ s history suggests that the region can withstand these storms .
its impressive resilience is rooted in the culture of consultations that indonesia led ( musyawarah ) and the consensus culture .
imagine if other regional organizations , such as the gulf cooperation council , the south asian association of regional cooperation , can benefit from a similar norm if they are able to adhere to similar norms .
the eu was once the gold standard for regional cooperation .
but it seems to be in a series of seemingly endless crises , with anemic economic growth .
moreover , the uk is about to leave the eu from the eu , and it seems that the search for other cooperative models is the right question .
asean , despite its flaws , provides an attractive model .
in 2012 , the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize .
but asean ’ s approach is likely to represent the future , enabling other turmoil in the region to build strong cooperation .
disrupting the asean brand
canberra – owning a reputation for integrity and decency is as important to international relations as it is for career and personal careers .
by contrast , countries that never received or squander this image could seriously damage their own interests , dragging back trade , tourism , foreign investment , international forums , and the foreign security of their own countries .
three of the most important southeast asian countries – malaysia , thailand , and now indonesia – have created trouble in this regard .
all three of these countries have serious doubts about their commitment to the rule of law , the integrity of the judiciary , and the quality of mercy to the quality of mercy .
last month , malaysia ’ s supreme court rejected the opposition leader anwar ibrahim ’ s appeal to his five-year prison sentence for his five-year prison sentence – a shocking decision that is shocking .
prime minister najib razak ’ s government has apparently been guilty of prosecuting anwar against anwar ’ s allegations that malaysia was convicted of prosecution .
the evidence against anwar is clearly unfounded ; the courts accepted that it is blatantly weak .
if that story were to be handled according to the court ’ s mandate , decency can still be preserved : anwar could have executive clemency .
but there is no indication that najib ’ s government will recommend doing so .
anwar ’ s true name is his opposition coalition against conservative muslims , secularists , and chinese political parties , which seriously undermined 60 decades of the dominance of najib ’ s malay body , which lost elections in 2013 .
in thailand , the biggest crime of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra and his supporters was to gain the election campaign to win national elections , and their campaign campaign threatened the interests of the established bangkok elite .
of course , there have been serious misconduct during this period , including bribery and institutional corruption ; but these crimes are not enough to support last year ’ s military coup and subsequent repression .
to ensure that thailand ’ s next constitution – since 1932 , since 1932 – has served as a true boon to the national reform council and the constitution ’ s drafting committee , some of the countries that have made the country ’ s next constitution are in real interest .
many do want to end the culture of corruption and buying votes on thai politics once and for all .
but the real reform can be achieved only through compromise , and the brutal impeachment of the military junta in january , when the brutal impeachment of the prime minister , yingluck shinawatra , has made it impossible for her opponents to be , and even her opponents believed that it was not .
the law once again was subject to political manipulation .
indonesia ’ s situation is different from that of thailand and thailand , but it is not as extreme as it would be .
president joko “ jokowi ” widodo , who won the election victory last year , succeeded in shoring up indonesia ’ s democratic transition , and has raised expectations for human rights and repeated movements .
at home , however , the ability and confidence of administrative governance to manage corruption , which has only recently withdrawn – recently withdrawn – has been lost to the country ’ s police chief , and has a major political advantage in the country ’ s police chief .
the international community is increasingly worried about jokowi ’ s claim that it will be determined – a moratorium on the execution of many convicted drug traffickers .
his position suggests that he simply does not consider whether these individual cases can prove clemency or the lack of evidence of the relevance of the decision against the case of the capital punishment .
two australian drug traffickers have been executed this month .
no one doubts that they have been honest about their actions a decade ago , but the degree of integrity that they have made since then allowed others to continue to live in judicial processes that allow others to survive – whether for them or for others .
yet jokowi has not yet recognized – or , as it has yet recognized , – that it refuses to consider the appropriateness of leniency , while refusing to consider the appropriateness of 宽大处理 indonesia , while lobbying for more than 200 others in the country , especially the gulf states .
decency can be credibly demanded for everyone else .
in indonesia , this inconsistency will soon hurt it .
malaysia has been condemned by the world for anwar ’ s case , and thailand has lost many of its international friends because of the recent coup , exemplified by the recent lack of a major setback for the un human rights commission .
thai diplomats fear that thailand ’ s recent attempt to win the un security council ’ s seat on the un security council would have suffered a similar setback .
all of these events also have greater regional consequences .
asean continues to struggle for geopolitical supremacy in southeast asia and the asia-pacific economic and security diplomacy .
asean leaders must now ask themselves how many member states can afford to lose their reputation to the reputation of southeast asia ’ s reputation for economic growth and political influence .
it is always tempting to claim that the ministry of justice can not be allowed to interfere with others .
but this is no longer true in today ’ s interconnected societies .
some countries may be large enough , strong enough , and free of impunity is a far stronger economic and political base than a strong economy .
liberating asean
singapore – next year is the 50th anniversary of asean ’ s creation of the 50th anniversary of asean ’ s failure to agree on its territorial claims in the south china sea .
while all decisions that make the decision based on consensus make it possible for disparate member states to unite and protect national interests , this limits asean ’ s effectiveness in dealing with new security threats .
the consensus rules explain why asean has failed to take a joint stance in the united states in september 11 , 2001 , when it faced a terrorist attack and the subsequent us-led war on terror .
likewise , north korea ’ s provocations – such as continuing nuclear testing and the 2010 attack on south korea ’ s cheonan ’ s cheonan ’ s stunted cheonan – have remained silent , because some members sympathize with the north korean regime .
but the territorial disputes in the south china sea have shown how asean ’ s consensus principle is limited to its effectiveness .
the problem is far more divisive among asean members than any previous problem .
in 2012 , asean ministers , for the first time in history , failed to develop a joint statement , because cambodia was not allowed to mention any incident in the south china sea .
in july 2016 , asean foreign ministers failed to mention a landmark decision by the international arbitral tribunal in the joint communiqué .
asean ’ s failure to act as a result of the south china sea has led to questions about the organization ’ s capacity to “ maintain and strengthen peace ” – the first goal of the asean charter ’ s first goal .
moreover , the recent stalemate may force some member states to address the problem by other means , ultimately affecting asean ’ s regional and international importance .
asean must address this consensus , either through procedural reforms or through institutional innovation .
first , asean should follow the advice made by asean ’ s senior advisory group in 2006 , introducing a majority of decision-making rules .
as asean ’ s activities expand , consultants observe that it should “ consider other flexible decision-making mechanisms , ” including voting .
the eu has long taken this governance mechanism , and , even within asean , there is a precedent for voting decisions , particularly on geopolitical and security issues .
in 1995 , for example , the treaty of southeast asia ( nwfz ) established the commission , with a two-thirds majority on the basis of “ no consensus . ”
when asean is unable to agree on a consensus , they should distinguish between two types of issues that are clearly influenced by the question of member states ’ sovereignty , territorial integrity , and independence ; and questions about the composition of regional security .
asean member states should seek consensus on the former issue , unless the country has another decision .
but , in the latter case , they should choose a majority rule .
accordingly , if a matter of regional security is a matter of considerable regional security , without endangering sovereign sovereignty , territorial integrity , and political autonomy , it should not allow the country to block all other member states , sacrifice regional security .
another way to overcome the consensus challenge is to adopt a new institutional framework .
for example , the establishment of a territorial dispute in the south china sea , which operates according to a majority rule , could establish asean ’ s position on the issue and address disagreements in china .
alternatively , asean member states that have territorial claims in the south china sea can be allied and to absorb asean members with unrelated benefits .
in the south china sea , the south china sea group established its own common position before the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) conference formed its own common position , more likely to produce an asean consensus .
if these choices fail , all regional positions are similar , regardless of whether they have territorial claims in the south china sea or whether asean members , with a common position to demonstrate common ground through regional forums such as asean forums and eas summits .
integrating non-member countries into the association of southeast asian nations could affect asean ’ s unity ; but if asean members decide to adhere to the principles of consensus , it is a trade-off that must be accepted .
nonetheless , the consensus principle should not be abandoned .
it is in asean ’ s interest to agree on the asean interests of any conceivable question – including the south china sea dispute , if it is not a serious threat to regional peace .
here , asean members should establish more trust , cooperation , and dialogue with china and china .
all asean countries must strike a balance between national interests and greater regional interests .
china , for its part , should be more sensitive to security issues than asean countries , and it prefers to turn the south china sea into a haven of peace and prosperity , rather than tension and antagonism .
asean ’ s new approach to myanmar
new york – the recent decision by myanmar ’ s government to continue under house arrest pro-democracy leader aung san suu kyi shows how difficult it is to deal with the country ’ s ruling generals .
but a new approach is possible .
the most obvious signs come from the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , the asean member states .
at first , asean governments ’ response to the verdict was relatively modest , expressing their “ disappointment ” – a stance that demonstrated the asean group ’ s lack of attitude toward member states ’ internal affairs .
but thai foreign minister 格实 披隆 subsequently consulted with cambodia , indonesia , singapore , and vietnam .
he is now spreading the idea of replacing aung san suu kyi with the current asean chair .
asean officials have since met with a draft draft .
the draft may be approved by asean foreign ministers in september , and was submitted to asean leaders in october .
of course , the draft content will be revised , and it is not surprising .
but the pardon requirement is already essential .
the draft attempt to achieve a delicate balance , in which it is focused on respecting the government ’ s sovereignty , while moderate and moderate .
the call would be politely worded , but it is also a formal and open exchange of open and open foreign relations .
neither asean ’ s public statements nor the message of information will change immediately .
cynics may add , even if aung san suu kyi is being pardoned , and she may still be detained for political reasons , or face other obstacles , aimed at stopping her participation in myanmar ’ s elections in 2010 .
but western sanctions do not work .
after the crackdown in the 1990 ’ s , human rights violations continued , and the last time it was protests against buddhist monks in 2007 .
the average citizen ’ s living standards are declining , while interest groups associated with the rulers are rich .
western sanctions have helped to pave the way for countries that don ’ t care about their human rights rights , at first , the association of southeast asian nations ’ investment hotel and other industries , which have recently launched a fierce competition for strategic energy in china and india .
as a result , burma ’ s generals offer opportunities to gain advantage .
but the game may be changing .
asean ’ s initiative is a new step forward .
despite asean ’ s refusal to have previously sanctioned , even expelled , myanmar ’ s calls , this step suggests that it will not let the generals behave completely .
there are two other developments beyond asean ’ s efforts .
the first is america ’ s decision to reconsider its sanctions policy , which aims to remain more flexible at its core values and interests .
some activists have responded to us senator jim weber ’ s journey to yangon , demanding that americans , who have unleashed aung san suu kyi , were criticized for criticism .
but that is precisely what the obama administration has sought to do with a country that is not a us friend .
such a dialogue is essential to prevent myanmar ’ s development of nuclear weapons and , like iran , the election .
another development is relatively concealed .
in the aftermath of the court ’ s declaration , the burmese authorities reduced their sentence by half , agreeing to arrest aung san suu kyi , rather than the worst prison .
at first glance , it seems like a concession .
but the junta seems intent on easing its anger .
the junta ’ s cooperation with the rest of the international community on humanitarian aid after cyclone nargis is also a source of consideration .
will this be the realization that burma ’ s generals recognize that they have reached a dead end ?
will this be a situation in which myanmar ’ s authorities tried to escape isolation before the 2010 election ?
will the burmese junta welcome dialogue and engagement ?
how the generals respond to asean ’ s demands will be an important signal of the authorities ’ intentions .
even if the authorities do want to negotiate , it will not be much easier to insist on negotiations than north korea .
asean ’ s role as a grouping of its neighbors is essential to achieving the negotiations , but america ’ s engagement is the key to the problem , and it is in china and india .
there must be pressure on china and india to focus their attention on other goals for strategic energy and other natural resources .
and japan , which remains the largest economy and traditional donor state , must also play a role .
a moral but pragmatic international organization must be established to make all member states consistent with myanmar .
even if different countries use different instruments as a orchestra , the main theme must be consistent .
if it does , the chances of progress ahead of the 2010 election will increase .
success may still be far behind , but a new round of efforts has begun , and the chances of success are greater .
the dark heart of asean
washington , dc – at the summit of california next week , us president barack obama will head to the top group of southeast asian nations , asean ’ s most important regional grouping .
the meeting was the first time in the united states , which has been touted as a sign of growing interest in southeast asia .
the question is whether the united states , which has invited all asean members , will be able to overwhelm the principles .
the upcoming summit is a recent testament to the obama administration ’ s strategic “ pivot ” to asia , which is obama ’ s national security strategy , with us military , economic , and diplomatic resources going to pacific rim countries .
in many ways , this shift in relations is highly important .
first , some asean countries ’ tensions with china are escalating , owing partly to the growing assertiveness of china ’ s disputed territorial claims in southeast asia , led by president xi jinping ’ s most autocratic leader since president xi jinping .
a similar decision two years ago led to massive anti-china riots in vietnam .
and concern is not just vietnam .
malaysia , singapore , and the philippines are both trying to upgrade their navies and coast defenses .
indeed , after two decades of expulsion from the fact that the us forces the us power , the philippines has brought back the us military , as part of a new military cooperation agreement .
even countries that depend on china are worried .
china is laos ’ s largest donor and trading partner ; but , in laos , the ruling communist party last month was said to have no 亲华派 .
burma also relies heavily on chinese aid and trade with china , but fear of becoming a chinese satellite is a key reason why the burmese military junta transferred power to civilian government in the early 2010s .
in addition to security challenges , america ’ s economic interests in southeast asia are growing .
together , the asean countries comprise america ’ s fourth-largest trading partner .
some evidence suggests that the new asean economic community ( regional freedom agreement ) is helping southeast asian countries weather increasingly unstable global economic conditions .
but the upcoming us-asean summit has a serious problem .
southeast asia ’ s political system has been sharply regressive since the us launched its pivot to asia in 2011 .
in the last few years , thailand has become a military rule from flawed democracy , which could continue until 2018 .
likewise , malaysia was a two-party democracy in 2011 .
today , opposition leader anwar ibrahim is jailed for dubious sodomy charges ; the government passed legislation that essentially authorizes it to detain critics indefinitely ; and prime minister najib razak is mired in economic and political scandals .
in 2013 , the opposition coalition won almost a victory in cambodia ’ s general election , and cambodia seemed to be a political breakthrough .
but over the last two years , cambodian prime minister hun sen has returned to his political dominance .
opposition leader sam rainsy , fearing arrest , chose to exile .
then there is myanmar .
while the obama administration has touted it as a shining example of democratic change , real democracy is still far over .
true , the longtime opposition party won the general election last november .
but the military still controls many ministries and a quarter of parliamentary seats .
moreover , civil war erupted in myanmar , where gangs and other radical groups massacre muslims .
laos , vietnam , and brunei are both the world ’ s most repressive countries , with no sign of political openness .
and , despite progress in indonesia , the philippines , and singapore , progress is slow ; in singapore , the ruling party continues to dominate the political system .
there are many reasons for the weakening of democracy in southeast asia .
the region ’ s first generation of elected leaders , such as former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra , ended up no more than a democratically elected dictator who uses the support of the majority of people to suppress the opposition and suppress the use of the available instruments .
indeed , thailand ’ s cyber repression has intensified under the junta , which has now blocked more than 100,000 websites .
weak institutions mean that many countries , such as malaysia , are struggling with political crises ; in thailand , the military has taken over as a stopgap exercise .
the trouble is that the obama administration has been strengthening ties with southeast asian autocrats , reinforcing this destructive trend .
obama has maintained good relations with malaysia ’ s najib ( the two were reportedly 高尔夫球 buddies ) .
during obama ’ s visit to malaysia last year , he barely mentioned anwar ’ s imprisonment .
the obama administration has also been silent about the violations of brunei , laos , and vietnam , which last july invited general secretary general to visit washington .
in recent months , the obama administration has begun to rebuild ties with thailand , including by renewing the high-level strategic dialogue , which has been frozen since the september 2014 coup .
but , according to human rights watch , “ thailand ’ s military junta tightened its grip on power , severely persecuting fundamental rights . ”
and , so far this year , there has been no sign of change .
some of the upcoming us-asean summits – such as hun sen , ruled in cambodia for 25 years – were previously thought to be too brutal and authoritarian , not to begin with us territory .
now , it seems that security and economic considerations have exceeded democracy and became the first determinant of foreign policy in southeast asia .
for the people of southeast asia , such an approach would ultimately create more risks than benefits .
can asean translate geostrategic and technological disruption into challenges ?
geneva – is the association of southeast asian nations resilient enough to thrive in the current regional and global transformations ?
while the global economy continues to expand broadly , disruptive economic , geostrategic , and technological forces may threaten asean ’ s growth in recent years .
in order to survive , asean members must make important decisions about the role of the organization in regional affairs .
and , through the right choice , the region could turn the disruption into a resilient future .
asean has undergone an impressive turnaround over the last five decades .
that tumultuous and conflict-ridden region is now one of the success of political and economic success .
this is due largely to countries ’ efforts to build their neighborhoods under asean .
but the region also benefited greatly from the global architecture and institutions that followed world war ii , which promoted foreign investment and foreign exports .
this global backdrop is now in a state of profound transformation .
the benefits of free and open trade are questioned , and the international system is challenging , with new geopolitical powers rising , and the global economy will continue to drift toward emerging markets ( even if the middle will remain exhausted ) .
all of this creates an opportunity for a new , competitive vision of how to operate and manage the world .
beyond growing geopolitical uncertainty , asean countries must address the fourth industrial revolution .
the exponential development of technologies such as artificial intelligence , advanced robotics , precision medicine , and self-driving cars is transforming economic , corporate , and social .
asean members will feel the impact of the fourth industrial revolution acutely .
consider the development of employment , which is increasing by 1.1 million daily per day , and will continue to grow in the next 15 years .
and in this demographic expansion , many existing jobs are being replaced by intelligent automation and artificial intelligence .
a tax system based on labor income would be under pressure .
the national budget will be challenged by the fact that asean member states must invest more in 培训 workers and develop infrastructure for this new age .
for asean , the shift from centralized global supply chains to localized production systems could have a serious impact on exports and related investments .
in response to these disruptive shifts , asean must strengthen its role in the community .
economically , by establishing a real single market , regional adaptability can be strengthened : asean has a population of 亿 billion in consumption .
taking full advantage of asean ’ s economic community is crucial .
with a strong regional market , asean can dominate its own economic destiny rather than rely on external markets , and would be better insulated from potential protectionist shocks .
creating a single market for services is essential .
in particular , asean members must address the fourth industrial revolution , addressing issues such as rules governing the use of data .
new technologies – including digital platforms , big-data analytics , and 基于 services – can not identify national borders and function best only if large-scale application is applied .
