beyond regional bodies like the european union , international financial governance has remained largely untouched .
it is a hub of high-level thought and innovation ; it is home to some of the world ’ s most competitive regions and industries ; and , perhaps most impressive , it has built a community and market encompassing a half-billion people .
in the coming years , such rays may become scarcer still .
but inequality continued to worsen – with striking data showing that average life expectancy in the us was on the decline .
any train accident or airplane crash is now at first suspected of being an act of terrorism .
but , when it comes to standards – such as those governing safety , health , and the environment – the market-access requirements are brutal and binary : either you meet the established standard or you do not sell .
the spanish case is symptomatic of a larger problem .
a 10 % increase in japan ’ s female labor-force participation rate – an entirely attainable goal – would translate into an almost 5 % gain in total labor-force participation .
new delhi – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has assiduously courted russian president vladimir putin , meeting with him more than a dozen times in four years .
new thinking is required to manage these massive and systemic changes , as well as the integration of giants like china and india into the modern world .
these are some of the poorest households in the world , and , ironically , some of the hungriest as well , despite being food producers .
the complexities of black anger , white guilt , and of black , and white fear , are so vexed that most americans prefer not to talk about race at all .
but superficial repairs will not meet the european union ’ s future needs . the cap must be born again .
their scientific breakthroughs have helped to feed the world , and we ’ ll need more of them .
for america , the sanders bill marks important progress .
because these activities ’ costs are so high and their benefits so low , stopping them would be easy .
it was later realized that the signal they had detected could be entirely attributed to interstellar dust .
indeed , the chinese authorities only recently showed what they think of treaty obligations and of the “ golden age ” of sino-british relations ( much advertised by british ministers ) , by abducting a british citizen ( and four other hong kong residents ) on the city ’ s streets .
good data are also essential to the effectiveness of advocacy groups as they push providers to improve their services .
the global companies operating in the delta have spilled oil and flared natural gas for decades , without regard for the natural environment and the communities impoverished and poisoned by their actions .
the us supposedly constrains the activities of large corporations , with the department of justice taking action if companies acquire monopoly power or otherwise behave in an anti-competitive manner .
instead , i believe that the most important way to reawaken voters ’ interest in european elections will be to open up the election of the commission ’ s president to them , and create a genuinely europe-wide political debate during the next election campaign .
and from albania to kyrgyzstan , e-government systems are allowing more people to connect with critical services through online and electronic portals .
getting tough on trade at a time when national saving is about to come under ever-greater pressure simply doesn ’ t add up .
large investments in forestation , agriculture , and energy supply are called for .
accusing warriors of being traders and traders of being thieves , it shuns its marxist origins .
however , a decision-making body consisting of delegates from kosovo , serbia , and the european union would be given full authority over major foreign policy issues ( for example , alliances and relations with international economic institutions ) , defence , borders ( in case kosovo wished to join with albania ) , and the treatment of kosovo ’ s serbian minority .
obama may have come to understand that when you are the leader of the world ’ s only superpower , you need to be feared just a little if you are to be respected .
already german , dutch , and finish savings amounting to €15,000 , €17,000 , and €21,000 , respectively , per working person have been converted from marketable investments into mere equalization claims against the ecb .
in many countries , there is considerable scope for domestic resource mobilization .
indeed , many eu members have been in a race with each other to see who will be russia ’ s closest friend in the union .
as thomas piketty ’ s recent book capital in the twenty-first century shows , accumulated wealth has grown rapidly relative to income across the advanced economies over the last 40 years .
trends in these factors might make reduced trade intensity not only inevitable but desirable .
that pretense may reflect a useful taboo : if we overtly recognize that debt write-off/monetization is possible , politicians might want to do it all the time and in excess , not just in circumstances that make it appropriate .
a “ credit crunch ” – particularly in trade finance – was certainly a key reason why the financial crisis generated a real economy recession .
the consumer benefits of this technology are large relative to its price : the cost of each year ’ s latest computer , tablet , or smartphone is trivial compared to the cost of a new car in 1950 .
free trade in automobiles was good for the environment 30 years ago .
climatewise , a global network of insurance industry organizations , has already warned that the world is facing a $ 100 billion annual climate risk “ protection gap ” .
the money that developing countries would receive for this would not be aid , but rather a recognition that the rich nations must pay for something that in the past they simply appropriated : far more than their fair share of our atmosphere ’ s capacity to absorb our waste gases .
the decision to recommend the renminbi ’ s inclusion , far from having been made on sound economic grounds , can only be understood as political .
such a body must operate under the auspices of the united nations , which bears the institutional legitimacy necessary to respond effectively to the challenges of globalization with coherent global standards to combat abusive tax practices and ensure fair taxation of corporate profits worldwide .
policy vacillation in some countries has not helped .
the most promising areas for international cooperation today most likely concern problems posed for states by third parties such as criminals and terrorists .
so i agreed to go on nigeria ’ s most-watched television talk show to discuss my sexuality .
if suu kyi is permitted to campaign free of restraint , for both her own seat and to boost the electoral chances of her nld colleagues , it will be clear that thein sein and his government are truly determined to bring their country in from the cold .
in imperial china , this meant confucian orthodoxy .
for now , policymakers across the americas are tiptoeing towards the obvious .
but the other credit crisis is equally consequential , and receives much less attention , even as it erodes societies ’ integrity , productive capabilities , and ability to maintain living standards ( particularly for the least fortunate ) .
another lesson from japan
and the belief in economic growth as a fiscal panacea led to unrealistically optimistic gdp forecasts .
