beyond regional bodies like the european union , international financial governance has remained largely un touched .
it is a hub of high-level thought and innovation ; it is home to some of the world ’ s most competitive regions and industries ; and , perhaps most impressive , it has built a community and market encompassing a half- billion people .
in the coming years , such ra ys may become scar cer still .
but inequality continued to worsen – with striking data showing that average life expectancy in the us was on the decline .
any train accident or airplane crash is now at first suspected of being an act of terrorism .
but , when it comes to standards – such as those governing safety , health , and the environment – the market- access requirements are brutal and bin ary : either you meet the established standard or you do not sell .
the spanish case is sympt omatic of a larger problem .
a 10 % increase in japan ’ s female labor-force participation rate – an entirely attainable goal – would translate into an almost 5 % gain in total labor-force participation .
new delhi – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has as sid uously cour ted russian president vladimir putin , meeting with him more than a dozen times in four years .
new thinking is required to manage these massive and systemic changes , as well as the integration of giants like china and india into the modern world .
these are some of the poorest households in the world , and , ironically , some of the hun gr iest as well , despite being food producers .
the complexities of black anger , white guilt , and of black , and white fear , are so v ex ed that most americans prefer not to talk about race at all .
but superficial repa irs will not meet the european union ’ s future needs . the cap must be born again .
their scientific breakthroughs have helped to feed the world , and we ’ ll need more of them .
for america , the sanders bill marks important progress .
because these activities ’ costs are so high and their benefits so low , stopping them would be easy .
it was later realized that the signal they had detected could be entirely attributed to inter st ell ar dust .
indeed , the chinese authorities only recently showed what they think of treaty obligations and of the “ golden age ” of sino- british relations ( much adverti sed by british ministers ) , by abduc ting a british citizen ( and four other hong kong residents ) on the city ’ s streets .
good data are also essential to the effectiveness of advocacy groups as they push providers to improve their services .
the global companies operating in the delta have spilled oil and fl ared natural gas for decades , without regard for the natural environment and the communities impoverished and poisoned by their actions .
the us supposedly constr ains the activities of large corporations , with the department of justice taking action if companies acquire monopoly power or otherwise behave in an anti- competitive manner .
instead , i believe that the most important way to re awak en voters ’ interest in european elections will be to open up the election of the commission ’ s president to them , and create a genuinely europe-wide political debate during the next election campaign .
and from albania to kyrgyzstan , e- government systems are allowing more people to connect with critical services through online and electronic port als .
getting tough on trade at a time when national saving is about to come under ever- greater pressure simply doesn ’ t add up .
large investments in forestation , agriculture , and energy supply are called for .
accusing warriors of being traders and traders of being th iev es , it sh un s its marxist origins .
however , a decision-making body consisting of delegates from kosovo , serbia , and the european union would be given full authority over major foreign policy issues ( for example , alliances and relations with international economic institutions ) , def ence , borders ( in case kosovo wished to join with albania ) , and the treatment of kosovo ’ s serbian minority .
obama may have come to understand that when you are the leader of the world ’ s only superpower , you need to be feared just a little if you are to be respected .
already german , dutch , and finish savings amounting to € 15,000 , € 17 ,000 , and € 2 1,000 , respectively , per working person have been converted from marke table investments into mere equ alization claims against the ecb .
in many countries , there is considerable scope for domestic resource mobilization .
indeed , many eu members have been in a race with each other to see who will be russia ’ s closest friend in the union .
as thomas piketty ’ s recent book capital in the twenty-first century shows , accumulated wealth has grown rapidly relative to income across the advanced economies over the last 40 years .
trends in these factors might make reduced trade intensity not only inevitable but desirable .
that pretense may reflect a useful taboo : if we over tly recognize that debt write- off / monetization is possible , politicians might want to do it all the time and in excess , not just in circumstances that make it appropriate .
a “ credit crunch ” – particularly in trade finance – was certainly a key reason why the financial crisis generated a real economy recession .
the consumer benefits of this technology are large relative to its price : the cost of each year ’ s latest computer , tab let , or smartphone is trivial compared to the cost of a new car in 1950 .
free trade in automobiles was good for the environment 30 years ago .
clim at e wise , a global network of insurance industry organizations , has already warned that the world is facing a $ 100 billion annual climate risk “ protection gap ” .
the money that developing countries would receive for this would not be aid , but rather a recognition that the rich nations must pay for something that in the past they simply appropri ated : far more than their fair share of our atmosphere ’ s capacity to absorb our waste gases .
the decision to recommend the renminbi ’ s inclusion , far from having been made on sound economic grounds , can only be understood as political .
such a body must operate under the auspices of the united nations , which bears the institutional legitimacy necessary to respond effectively to the challenges of globalization with coherent global standards to combat abusive tax practices and ensure fair taxation of corporate profits worldwide .
policy vac ill ation in some countries has not helped .
the most promising areas for international cooperation today most likely concern problems posed for states by third parties such as criminals and terrorists .
so i agreed to go on nigeria ’ s mo st- watched television talk show to discuss my sexuality .
if suu kyi is permitted to campaign free of restraint , for both her own seat and to boost the electoral chances of her n ld colleagues , it will be clear that the in sein and his government are truly determined to bring their country in from the cold .
in imperial china , this meant confucian orthodoxy .
for now , policymakers across the americas are ti p to eing towards the obvious .
but the other credit crisis is equally consequential , and receives much less attention , even as it erodes societies ’ integrity , productive capabilities , and ability to maintain living standards ( particularly for the least fortunate ) .
another lesson from japan
and the belief in economic growth as a fiscal panacea led to un realistically optimistic gdp forecasts .
madrid – the ongoing crisis in ukraine has been a hot topic of analysis for almost a year .
but such a dynamic does now seem to be in motion .
so how can turkey under these conditions maintain confidence in the eu ’ s fairness ?
they point to the cold war ’ s “ long peace ” as proof that nuclear deterrence is the only means of st aving off a major war .
in france , by contrast , the appointment of the black anch or woman au dre y pul v ar was big news on its own , because most of her colleagues in france are white .
new york – president obama 's recent trip to afghanistan highlighted the growing american and international perception that without better governance afghanistan will fail .
in afghanistan , america ’ s military was so tac tically dependent on pakistan that , on several occasions , the us encouraged india to curtail development projects , such as rebuilding afghanistan ’ s infrastructure .
irrigation has failed or is inadequate in hel m and , uru z gan , and k and ah ar – three of the top five opi um- producing provinces – where indebted farmers are ho o ked by the economics : opium brings in eight times as much cash as wheat and uses less water .
high-level collusion enables thousands of tons of chemical precur sors , needed to produce heroin , to be truc ked into the country .
second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
let ’ s hope that when the last whist le blows at the final in berlin on july 9 , we germans retain as much of this positive spirit as possible .
thus , royal ’ s program is her popularity .
but they are intended to under line what many people in europe know very well , which is that the speed with which problems concerning international development and conflict are growing easily outpac es the eu ’ s policy responses so far .
conditions in this vital economic sector will become even more precarious than they currently are .
africa , climate change , and the g-8 summit
for countries to experience job -led long-term growth , the provision of quality opportunities in agriculture is vital .
this might have its advantages , but it should not be a priority .
in ya ound é , camer oon , the af db helped to protect some 300,000 people and their property by reducing the frequency of floods from 15 incidents per year to just three .
after all , “ africa rising ” need not mean “ all ” of africa .
and , from the early 1990s , india ’ s economy also began to grow robu stly , with annual rates reaching the 9 % range by 2005 .
currently , the organization is mired in a financial crisis and inter nec ine disputes , and it will need a leader who has the vision to solve both internal and external problems .
res e tting the afric a- europe relationship
the school believes that the next einstein could be an african woman , an educational approach that in forms its comprehensive strategy to plug leaks in the stem development pipeline .
health coverage must not ignore africa ’ s elderly
a third challenge is climate change , which weighs heavily on countries where agriculture is still the primary sector for employment .
other recommendations relate to trade and regional integration , leveraging domestic and external finance , and promoting what it calls the “ new industrial revolution . ”
new research by the brookings institution ’ s africa growth initiative and the united nations university world institute for development economics research ( un u- wider ) might hold the key to answering that question .
for years , a lack of bank able projects deterred international financing .
nearly half of that $ 2.5 trillion will be spent in three countries : nigeria ( 20 % ) , egypt ( 17 % ) , and south africa ( 11 % ) .
to overcome africa ’ s human development challenges , african governments must invest in the people who can overcome them .
together , we have brought immun o hist o chemistry , a key diagnostic tool , to seven regional laboratories , an effort we hope lead to more timely cancer diagnoses and greatly improve the quality of care .
economic equality also challenges accepted beliefs , and dis p els harmful myths that perpetuate narrow definitions of gender norms .
the estimated growth rate for 2016 is lower than the population growth rate of about 2 % , implying a per capita contraction in gdp .
the oil sector will still have an important role to play .
yet uganda is also a success story .
migrants ’ remitt ance behavior is essentially dictated by the regulatory environment and the quality – in terms of speed , cost , security , and acces sibility – of products and services offered by banks , money- transfer companies , micro- finance institutions , and informal operators .
of course , numerous downside risks – adverse weather shocks , military conflict , and political turmoil – still can undermine the hard- earned benefits of this social and economic record .
some argue that gas might be a better alternative to hydr o or coal , but for countries that must import much of their gas the benefits of a stable and reliable source of cheap fuel in the form of coal present a very strong counter- argument to the capital costs of a gas plant .
ensuring africa ’ s continued rise
with prices for basic fo od stu ffs at their highest levels in decades , many urban ites feel well rewarded by farming .
to deploy this technology , which is based on american research but pil oted in- country , zi pl ine signed agreements with the aviation authority and the ministry of health , among others , and a public-private partnership was set up to fund the program .
presumably having learned their lesson from the brexit referendum , young britons contributed to an unexpected victory for labour in june ’ s snap general election .
those of us working in the field of international development can help level the playing field even more , by giving young africans from all backgrounds an opportunity to lead in transformative ways .
young people can help solve africa ’ s unemployment challenges , but those closest to the problem have yet to be made part of the solution .
this we should know by now : markets on their own are not stable .
for some of these countries , especially those that have adopted many new vaccines , obtaining adequate and sustainable financing is one of the most daunting challenges posed by the transition .
moreover , orderly political change can be brought about only with russian and iranian support .
but , rather than earning him the respect of an outraged egyptian public , revelations in the opposition press that his plane had to obtain a safe passage and authority to land from the israelis gar nered only how ls of der ision .
advanced countries are certain to resist any new commitments .
the globalized economy affects every state , yet no single state can determine the outcomes , because science and technology are border less .
unfortunately , that is no surprise .
the two countries should take the lead in forging a global cyber accord , complete with pool ed metrics of cyber incursions , att ack - reduction targets and a robust dispute- resolution mechanism .
while berlin is increasingly imposing its economic preferences on others in the eurozone , it is not prepared to use military force as a foreign-policy tool , as it demonstrated in the case of libya .
that would widen the wage distribution , create jobs , and maintain the living standard of the poor .
the first and greatest of these imperatives is sustainable development . we all must understand that saving our planet , lifting people out of poverty , and advancing economic growth are one and the same fight . we must connect the do ts between climate change , water scarcity , energy shortages , global health , food security , and women ’ s empowerment . solutions to one problem must be solutions for all .
what is missing is a new , 13th convention that clos es the loop hole that seems to permit governments to decide what constitutes terrorism and what does not .
of course , in the west , an investment plan inv ites criticism from those who prefer that we do nothing but talk about growth strategies .
at the political level , the un is the meeting place for 193 member states to negotiate and create international law , as in the important treaty on climate change adopted at the rio earth summit in 1992 .
interest-rate hikes may be coming sooner rather than later , which is why berlusconi and french president jacques chirac are talking up interest-rate cuts now .
so how is it that the euro is trading at a 40 % premium to the us dollar , even as investors continue to view southern european government debt with great skepticism ?
we know from history that waves of innovation , from the steam engine to the information and communications revolution , have led to dramatic increases in economic growth .
in 2015 , de ere & company reported $ 29 billion in sales , sur passing the $ 25 billion that mon san to and bay er made selling seeds and pesticides .
oxford – the wave of revolts that swept across the arab world two years ago were fueled by demands for freedom , bread , and social justice .
the fourth lesson similarly reflects developments extending back further than 20 years .
as a result , the us , though certainly better equipped than israel for a war to ensure that iran forever aband ons its nuclear ambitions , could nonetheless conclude that that objective is simply too costly .
cu pr ates are notoriously difficult materials to work with , because they are very brit tle .
algorithms are posing fundamental questions about how we have organized social , political , and economic relations to date .
issu e- specific coalitions and campaigns work best when they bring together government insiders and outsiders , to combine perspectives and expertise .
by 2005 , however , annual aid for health had jumped another $ 5. 9 billion , and by 2010 , the total had grown by another $ 1 0.5 billion , to reach $ 2 6. 9 billion for the year .
but the reality is far less sinister : in that case , a ip ac merely sur fed on the pro- invasion wave unleashed by president george w. bush , with his messi anic urg es , and vice president dick cheney , a one- man war lobby .
singapore – european policymakers like to lecture the rest of the world on air pollution .
they will most likely succeed .
the classical concert that preceded the mag ist erial fire works that ended the day was the closest thing to a french version of the pro ms in london , mix ing light classical and popular s ong s .
the world must ferv ently hope that the turkish proposal for a caucasus stability and cooperation platform is more serious and sustained than previous similar efforts .
to the first two counts , greenspan now p leads guilty .
but can we justi fi ably defend morally compromised artists and intellectuals on the basis of their work ’ s merit , yet condemn ordinary people for often less grave offenses ?
we need to turn down the heat – and fast .
kerala ’ s muslim leadership , including the then- ruling coalition ’ s ally , the indian union muslim league , was equally vocal in its support .
the us has now reelected a president who understands this .
the conflict erupted in the immediate aftermath of the cold war , at a moment when one set of international organizing principles had collapsed and a new set had not yet been created .
in fact , the fiscal union proved to be explosive rather than ad hes ive .
how we lose our mar bles
what is not in doubt is that the reforms come at a sensitive time , when algeria is plagued by political and economic uncertainty .
and with that data , the algorith m develops sophisticated models of productivity that far surpass our common sense intu itions .
that model is now threatened by the fallout from the scandal that started with phone hacking in murdoch ’ s british press operations .
the novel ist salman rush die once put the question to supporters of abortion rights : “ what should be done when a woman uses her power over her own body to discriminate against female fet uses ? ”
and the answer brings us back , full circle , to where we started , namely to us fiscal policy .
and yet we want more , feel resent ful when we do not get it , and are self- aware enough to know that lux uries turn into conveni ences , and then into nec essi ties – and that we are very good at inv enting new lux uries after which to strive .
worldwide , more than 11 million people have put their names on donor registr ies for bone mar row , sign ifying their willingness to don ate their mar row to a stranger .
this year , two small studies of blood tests seemed to predict alzhe imer ’ s 1- 3 years before it occurred , but the tests are complicated and require the measurement of ten or more substances .
with experts in charge , it may not always look like there is an effective reporting structure in place .
both can have negative consequences .
but his half- brother and more powerful rival , prince na if , the minister of interior , ordered the arrests , trial , and imprisonment of 13 reformers in march 2004 .
but the plan backfired ; protests intensified , with other workers demonstrating for similar benefits and ra iling against the inflation that the move eng endered .
the bad news is that , even under such aus pic ious conditions , the us , as a world power , will not relinquish its “ free- hand ” policy or forget its strength and its claim to pre emin ence among nations .
te am work has repeatedly fallen hostage to tur f wars and political bickering .
it has pursued manifest ly expansionist territorial claims , most notably in the south china sea , and shown a clear determination to resist the indefinite continuation of american dominance in the region .
unfortunately , the big- wal let mindset of a deal- hungry china reinforces the us narrative that china is guilty as charged .
the same effect explains why canada – with immigration skewed toward low- fertility asian countries of origin – has had a significantly lower fertility rate of around 1.6 .
he led the charge in arguing for much higher capital ratios , in the united states and elsewhere .
as for the second option , allowing nominal exchange-rate flexibility would enable currency values to align with underlying economic fundamentals more quickly .
as a professor at harvard ’ s kennedy school of government , i attend our comm enc ement ceremony every year .
america should start to listen before it is too late .
it is still a real debt – just one that has gone un accounted for .
indian leaders must also be careful not to do or say things that could alienate the country ’ s large muslim minority .
and , of course , foreign investors are acutely sensitive to relative returns on assets – the us versus other markets – as well as the transl ation of those returns into their home currencies .
russian aggression is rattling allies .
indeed , as a share of the economy , r & d investment is now at its highest level on record , which bodes well for future productivity growth .
of the harm that inequality inflic ts on our economies , politics , and societies , the damage done to children demands special concern .
in some ways , many societies are more democratic than they were before .
a frank discussion about america 's foreign policy could prove vital to ensuring that this “ city upon a hill '' remains a beacon of hope – and a catalyst of progress .
iran presents trump with another opportunity to inflict political damage on the democrats .
a dollar crisis could weaken the foundations of american power .
even after t amer lan had died , and d z ho kh ar , already wounded , was the only known fu g itive , the boston authorities decided to close down the entire city .
given the un predictability of global developments , it is , of course , impossible to answer this question definitively .
re claiming american internationalism
even in america ’ s highly divisive political atmosphere , it seems , where there is a will , there is a way .
deregulation will supposedly sl ay the “ deep state ” chim era , while enabling the us to achieve energy independence .
on this bottom board , power is widely dispersed , and it makes no sense to speak of uni polarity , multi polarity , hegemony , or any other clich é .
in all of these cases , regional stability of sorts emerged after an american military withdrawal , albeit at the cost of a significant loss of life .
at the same time , however , many americans cher ish national myths , no less found ational in their way , which are in direct opposition to the idea of a nation of laws .
we know that renegotiating the north american free trade agreement in a way that would satisfy trump , particularly the demand for periodic renewal , is not an option .
this is not the first trade sp at with china , and it will not be the last .
president donald trump is a geographical anomaly , a pro- southern racist from liberal new york .
unfortunately , that is a facile excuse .
they are all part of an enormous multilateral trade deficit that stems from america ’ s unprecedented shortfall of saving – a depreci ation- adjusted “ net national saving rate ” ( combining businesses , households , and the government sector ) that has been negative since 2008 .
more than three thousand people were murdered or “ disappeared ” during pin ochet ’ s rule , thousands more were tortured by his forces , and tens of thousands were forcibly exiled .
it is about reforming an education system that fails america ’ s young people ( and about providing appropriate retraining to those who need it ) .
the overwhelming – and sensible – expectation is that the two parties will compromise and raise the debt ceiling before inflicting serious economic and financial dis locations .
both examples show that europe , like the us , is vulnerable to the politics of division , as our societies become more ethnically diverse .
the obama policy would thus lead to ever- higher deficits and debt ratios well over 100 % of gdp , a level that numerous studies imply would reduce us economic growth by one-third or more and might induce a sovereign-debt crisis .
yet the united states persists in responding to symptoms rather than to underlying conditions by trying to address every conflict by military means .
and a substantial change has indeed occurred over the past two generations : ceos focus much more attention than they used to on pleas ing the stock market , and this is likely to be a good thing .
if the currency were de valued without addressing the contractual issue , the dollar value of debts would automatically increase to offset the weaker exchange rate , resulting in massive bankruptcies and huge increases in public debt .
but he was unable to improve the situation or help iraq ’ s shi as and sunnis reach a political compromise .
yet obama ’ s attempts to reform health care have run into hyster ical opposition .
america ’ s g- zero moment
all of this amounted to a human and economic disaster in the making .
as the intense us debate about president barack obama ’ s proposed use of military force highlights , the att ack - syria push is not about upholding america ’ s national interest .
accountability is also being fl ou ted .
the responsible left in chile , brazil , and uruguay are an exception to the emerging rule set by venezuela ’ s president hugo chávez .
instead , these official forecasts represent a “ baseline ” scenario that the cbo is required to present .
it is already three- fifths of the way there .
the us ostensibly agreed to a 97 % opening of its markets to the poorest countries .
but extracting shale energy involves environmental risks and uncertainties , among them groundwater contamination , higher methane emissions , and potential se ism ic effects .
of the four growth components that fall into this category , two have the greatest potential to make a difference – capital spending and exports .
but this is as much the result of speculators ’ “ hot money ” plays as it is a conscious and perfectly reasonable effort by chinese policymakers to remain focused on financial stability and manage currency appreciation in a gradual , disciplined , and orderly fashion .
br yan , roosevelt said , “ would be as cl ay in the hands of the pot ter under the ast ute control of the ambitious and un scrup ulous ill in ois communist . ”
america ’ s perpetual christmas
another approach is needed .
the level of political corruption in america is staggering .
obama ’ s burmese gamble
globalized production platforms distort bilateral trade data between the us and china , and have little to do with the exchange rate .
the logic of stagnant employment is not that adding jobs to the american economy is impossible , but that demand growth is insufficient to create more jobs than are lost .
fortunately , it may be possible to minimize the fallout for the rest of the world .
the alternative , as china has suggested , would be to develop a new reserve currency .
we can not afford to let that happen .
china may not wish for that outcome , but its own vital interest in the security of middle east energy supplies should compel it to cooperate .
they embraced the us in the same way that east europeans rushed to join nato and the european union in the face of the threat , real or imagined , posed by post-soviet russia .
he sp elled out a vision of future growth in which public and private investment would be complementary , mutually supportive pillars .
but obama will have to define a clearer us policy , addressing china ’ s rapid rise under an authoritarian regime that aggressively pursues border claims and wh ips up nationalism at home .
former us national security adviser zb ign ie w br z ez in ski recently argued strongly against military action , proposing , instead , a strategy that would continue sanctions and extend deterrence .
in fact , when the company announced the closure of its plant in kansas city , miss our i , it said that it would move those operations to york , pennsylvania .
over the longer run , the growth rate of national output depends on what happens to overall us investment in plant and equipment .
the bush administration claims that more research is needed before any action is taken .
if regulators get it wrong , the entire edi f ice could collapse – yet again .
improving the quality of gdp growth will depend on chinese leaders ’ willingness to enact market-oriented reforms .
in addition to policy innovations , more well- funded collabor ations between governments and private institutions are needed .
president george w. bush ’ s iraqi patient now seems to have reached that point .
even this limited version would constitute progress ; most of the gains arise from removing the red tape that complic ates cross-border establishment of small and medium-size service enterprises and limits competition in broad sectors of the economy .
this very doctrine left europe exposed .
charismatic young military rul er s- tur ne d- dictators like egypt ’ s gamal abdel nasser , iraq ’ s saddam hussein , libya ’ s muammar el-qaddafi , yemen ’ s ali abdullah saleh , and syria ’ s ha fe z al-assad used these popular causes to win public support .
if you see russia as a strategic adversary – and the restoration of great russian power politics under vladimir putin , to the detriment of the rule of law in domestic and foreign policy , does indeed speak for it – then the west should fundamentally change its agenda .
that nuclear chauvinism is an attitude reinforced by the “ ha ves ” of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty – china , france , russia , the united kingdom , and the united states – which also constitute the p 5 .
rail is critical to this effort , as it can ease stress on over extended and uncertain sea- lanes and provide faster connections , with fewer environmental repercussions .
after the fall of the berlin wall , the necessity that had been driving containment disappeared .
perhaps observers should be paying a little less attention to the “ who ” and a bit more to the “ what . ”
in this context , eu high representative ca ther ine ash ton ’ s meeting with dissidents during her most recent trip to tehran was merely a symbolic gesture .
television has reshap ed society in every corner of the world .
similarly , eliminating glass-steagall was fundamentally sensible .
as a result , the market for credit default swaps ( cds ) ­– where protection against corporate defaults is bought and sold – may also experience massive losses .
but perfect markets are no more available than perfect governments .
but the international sanctions are hurting , and iran risks losing syria .
what the latest findings demonstrate is that crucial parts of the world ’ s climate system , though massive in size , are so fragile that they can be ir remedi ably disrupted by human activity .
two million small enterprises were wiped out by that change ; many of them could be revived if tax procedures were no longer prohib itive .
the chilean economy has expanded , and no one with his or her heart in the right place can fail to celebrate that ; but this growth has little to do with the former president ’ s policies .
everything has changed , yet everything remains the same .
though import substitution and subsidies were initially successful in ign iting industrialization , lack of scale soon hindered efforts ( a country of a few million can not hope to have an auto industry aimed only at the domestic market ) .
time and again , nationalism and shortsighted politics have trum ped reason .
but clinton held forth eloqu ently on how new technologies could help to solve age-old social ills .
fishing vessels can now operate across the ocean , and deep- sea drilling provides a growing proportion of our oil and gas .
k ic ill of ’ s second point was that argentina ’ s businesses and consumers should not succumb to pessimism .
they absorb more carbon dioxide than forests do .
brazil was the most prominent among the latin american economies under attack , but analysts worried about similar vulnerabilities elsewhere in the region .
of course , a large share of china ’ s population has gained from three decades of unpreced ent edly rapid gdp growth .
with the official banking system thus constrained , it allocated the remaining credit to large enterprises and those with sufficient collateral , resulting in an uneven distribution of loans across regions and sectors .
in banking , for example , competition is extremely fierce , and china is one of the few economies where concentration ( the market share of the top five players ) has declined in recent years .
but this view under estimates the inev itability – indeed , the necessity – of such challenges on the path to development .
the final key risk facing the world concerns currency .
unless we shift away from carbon- intensive behavior , the remaining budget will run out in roughly three decades .
one source of china ’ s future political leadership could well be its growing ngo sector .
not only has bush destroyed iran ’ s most formidable enemy and bo gged down us troops in a hopeless cause ; he also has enriched energy- abundant iran and russia by pursuing a war that has dramatically raised energy prices .
yet the distinction has become more and more difficult to maintain .
for example , failure of management reform would fuel demands by the us congress to with hold america ’ s contributions to the un budget – a policy that would greatly undermine america ’ s own interests , such as the planned expansion of the mission to stop genocide in darfur .
international and national partners must radically change the way they engage such states .
of course , we must limit the scope of competition : there is no reason , for example , to extend it to taxation .
here , i see a direct connection with the problem of education .
more meaningful is the respect that comes from incub ating insights , rather than the products of past discoveries .
a more competitive currency would be welcome : just as the sterling ’ s collapse since 2008 has lifted uk exports , a weaker euro would help mediterranean economies regain competitiveness for price- sensitive exports .
and , of course , he backs iran ’ s nuclear program .
the oecd purchas ing- power statistics paint a similar picture , with greece needing to depreciate by 39 % and portugal by 32 % just to reach the price level prevailing in turkey .
it is usually assumed that developing economies need to build resources that emulate those in the developed world , but this could actually stifle the most creative thinking .
my proposal is to create a physical stockpile of le u at the disposal of the iaea as a last- resort reserve for countries with nuclear power programs that face a supply disruption for non- commercial reasons .
elections must instead be part of a comprehensive process of normalization : they should neither be a deal- break er nor a non- issue .
since then , the world has seen countless acts of violence , terrorism , famine , and environmental degradation .
her decision to welcome more than one million refugees was an un character istically bold humanitarian gesture .
indeed , one of schroeder ’ s first major foreign-policy experiences was the eu summit of 1999 , where the leaders of france and britain played rough with the newcom er from berlin .
a scenario in which merkel fin ishes out her term , staying on for another three years , should therefore not be ruled out .
the us has sanctioned russia and called crimea ’ s annexation illegal .
even in the world ’ s best- performing education systems , pis a helps to pin point areas for improvement .
but , in blaming leaders who have seized on popular anger , many overlook the power of that anger itself , which is aimed at elites whose wealth has skyrocke ted in the last 30 years , while that of the middle and working classes has remained stagnant .
policies to limit the plan et- warming effects of agriculture and food production are long overdue .
in 2011 , a group of indian state and private companies won the concession for the ha j ig ak ir on- ore deposit in bam yan province .
an india- pakistan diplomatic test match
but it should have been disbur sed directly in cash to the most ne edy russians : pensioners whose earnings plummeted due to inflation and economic contraction .
intelligence services can educate the public , explaining the origins of the alienation that underpins terrorism , how radicalization and recruitment occur , and highlight terrorists ' goals , methods , and targeting strategies .
argentine bonds ( like most others ) had a so-called par i pas su clause that committed the government to treat all bondholders alike .
to see why , it is useful to recall some history .
the ultimate winner in the interim agreement with iran is the cause of diplomacy itself .
even in the face of deeper political polarization than the us has seen in many decades ( and , in many places , a vis cer al hatred of the country ’ s first african-american president ) , americans and their politicians understand that breaking the rules means dis solving the constitutional gl ue that holds the polity together .
mystery soldiers can fight on both sides .
moreover , germany recognizes the need to consolidate europe ’ s voting power and reduce the number of european seats in other global institutions , such as the international monetary fund and the world bank , to make room for emerging powers .
indeed , on a week day after noon in the middle of summer , nearly 15 million americans tun ed in to the brazil - germany match in the sem i final .
interestingly , just as the movement to hold boards to account has gained greater traction , some companies have adopted new ways of conven ing annual shareholder meetings .
but how la zy that assumption seems now , given all that has since happened .
come to think of it : whatever happened to the poles , whom russia so successfully put down in 18 63 ?
alongside this effort , vigorous negotiations on a permanent settlement should start immediately .
no serbian leader will agree to kosovo ’ s independence , because nationalism remains the dominant political force in the country .
that meeting produced a notable broad side against the united states , as each member declared its desire to un seat the dollar as the global reserve currency .
the choice app alls voters .
answering iran
i personally would favor the extinction of the most virulent human pathogens .
it is possible to create conditions under which antibiotics are used only to treat sick patients , not healthy animals .
large volumes of antibiotics are also used in animal hus ban dry .
so populism is a kind of identity politics .
the best that could be done was to enact europe-wide and global rules , instead of allowing powerful countries like germany or the us to impose their own .
retaining one ’ s job in a tightening economy is undoubtedly a serious concern .
countries should set their own objectives to fit their particular circumstances and needs , but there must be some provisions to ensure that all are pulling their weight .
most gon or rhe a infections are un treatable .
a market- entry reward is crucial because it would also help to advance two of the review ’ s six “ demand- reducing ” interventions : the development of new vaccines and improved diagnostics .
a month later , a french jihadist attacked the jewish museum in brussels , leaving three dead and one critically wounded .
in short , media should be subject to the same kind of antitrust policy as , say , infrastructure industries .
afghanistan should do just that .
during the emergency period , fiscal retrenchment and austerity are unavoidable ; but , in the longer term , the debt burden will become unsustainable without growth – and so will the european union itself .
this would entail recognizing and trying to assu age the fears that china ’ s rise is causing among its neighbors , as ot to von bismarck did after german unification in 18 71 .
there are also now two reasons to fear a double-dip recession .
wy at t ’ s reluctance to join in the exploitation of great apes is understandable , given that the film itself tells the story of apes rising up in response to oppression from dominant humans .
reduction and elimination of this cold war- era nuclear infrastructure is the largest piece of unfinished business from that by gone time .
the opening of peace talks with al qa ida ?
during the cuban missile crisis , he did not try to humili ate or win a total victory over the soviet union . rather , he put himself in nikita khrushchev ’ s shoes and agreed to dismantle , secretly , american missiles in turkey and italy in exchange for withdrawal of soviet missiles from cuba .
of course , the icc ’ s prosecutor and judges are themselves taking a substantial risk in the indictment of bashir .
for poor regions , investment in equipment and training would have to come from wealthier counterparts .
such things tell us something about their concern for the public good .
the final step would be to improve management of surface water , thereby reducing the temptation to turn to groundwater in the first place .
nowadays , the world ’ s top universities teach computer science and engineering classes online .
economists , bankers , and entrepreneurs as well as of technology or communication experts are common .
but it has l ain in the draw ers of the und p arab bureau in new york ever since , probably in no small part due to its harsh judgment of the arab power elite .
london – the sixth anniversary of the arab spring uprisings this year came and went largely unnoticed .
the 2010- 11 revolutions were lead er less , and thus could not fill the resulting political void .
opportun istic parties tried to benefit from the turbulent environment created by sudden change .
taking advantage of their ability to mass- produce and instantly dissem inate ancient religious texts and western- origin ating literature , the two camps battle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies .
everything about the man was , indeed , protracted .
have central banks been given too many powers for their own good ?
this period came to be known as the “ lost decade . ”
coming from the presumptive democratic presidential nominee , that probably sounds like political spin .
but this criticism is unfair .
former massachusetts governor mitt romney , the republican fron tr unner to challenge obama in november , and the party ’ s other leading candidates , including former house speaker new t g ing rich , want less spending , major reforms of government programs , lower taxes , trade expansion , and less and mor e- targeted regulation than does obama .
in massachusetts , elizabeth warren , a harvard law professor and ti reless warri or for reforms to protect ordinary citizens from banks ’ abusive practices , won a seat in the senate .
then , contagion within and across markets can work in a downward direction , prop elling prices lower for years .
even some of our most well-meaning environmental efforts , such as the fight against climate change , have led to the expansion of the human presence into previously un touched wil der ness .
can service industries play the role that manufacturing did in the past ?
on the contrary , russia , like turkey , will be welcome to take part in relevant activities within the partnership ’ s multilateral dimensions .
from 1980 to 2010 , the share of “ households ” that consisted of just a single man or woman rose from 26 % to 33 % , while the share that contained married couples declined from 60 % to 50 % .
even a temporary spike in oil prices can have long-term effects because of the social reactions they provoke .
we therefore expect a shift toward earlier re production , because the costs previously associated with doing so have disappeared – exactly what we found in fram ing ham .
but , to save argentina from an increase in external imbalances affecting the sustainability of external public debt , monetary policy must change .
in addition to some additional fiscal tightening , the fund should insist that the authorities clarify the rules of the exchange-rate regime as the emergency rec edes .
there is a strong chance that the brexit negotiations will not be completed by the deadline , leading to a “ no deal ” scenario that generates a serious economic shock to britain and possibly continental europe .
the story of vac a mu er ta should serve as a warning to these and other countries considering shale gas as a means of strengthening their economies and advancing a low-carbon energy transition .
this reduced households ’ purchasing power and weakened aggregate demand , while diminishing the devaluation ’ s overall impact on the country ’ s external competitiveness .
after a period of calm that has now lasted a decade , dire economic warnings are back . forecasts for the world economy are turning pessimistic , and economists in export- dependent argentina are finding much to worry about .
incredibly , the us court of appeals for the second circuit in new york decided that this meant that if argentina paid in full what it owed those who had accepted debt restructuring , it had to pay in full what it owed to the vul tures .
by contrast , the restructuring of term deposits in january 2002 att en uated the bank run and kept the payments system alive , while allowing so-called “ sight deposits ” – which can be withdrawn immediately without penalty – to help build demand for pes os .
of course , competence and responsibility for arms- export controls and licensing rests with member states , not eu institutions .
over the next 1,000 days and beyond , our progress will be measured by what we have done to improve the lives of the poorest and most vulnerable members of the human family .
he claimed that the ultimate proof of artificial intelligence would be met if a human interrog ator were unable to figure out that he was convers ing with a computer .
this is comparable to – or even larger than – the economic impact of past gener al- purpose technologies , such as steam power during the 18 0 0s , industrial manufacturing in the 190 0s , and information technology during the 2000s .
those of us involved in technology development must also continue to identify the projects , initiatives , think tanks , and organizations that would benefit from cooperation with ai firms – like zi pl ine in rwanda .
at that point , whether it is in 2030 or at the end of this century , the robots will truly have taken over , and ai will con sign war , poverty , disease , and even death to the past .
only later did he come to realize his terrible error .
thirty years from now , we will wonder how we ever got along without our seemingly tel ep ath ic digital assist ants , just as today it ’ s already hard to imagine going more than a few minutes without checking the 1980s main frame in one ’ s pocket .
shel tered physically and metaph or ically by the kremlin ’ s high walls , and having progres sively lost contact with the living conditions of ordinary people ( if they ever had any ) , russia ’ s leaders seem to consider their lifestyle to be both normal and eternal .
there is no discern ible spanish connection to the case .
more and more young women are making just such practical choices : putting an apartment before love and pragmatism before principle .
today , asean comprises the world ’ s seven th-largest economy , on track to become the fourth largest by 2050 .
in doing so , it has had to repeatedly fin esse issues like cambodia 's authoritarian leadership , myanmar 's struggle with democratic transition , vietnam 's stubbornly anachron istic one-party state , and even im pec c ably in corrup tible singapore 's regular misuse of defam ation laws to neutralize political opponents .
moreover , some asean member countries , like singapore , have explicitly called for aung san suu kyi to be allowed to participate in the 2010 elections .
add to that the influence of china – hardly a force for democratic change – and southeast asia ’ s democratic regres sion is not particularly shocking .
so begins the national security strategy of the united states of america , presented before congress on may 27 .
legislators , prosecutors , and judges , in particular , need to understand what natural sciences , social sciences , and engineering can and can not offer .
the coordinated fiscal stimulus that saved the world from economic collapse in 2009 disappeared too quickly , with governments shifting their focus to domestic politics and priorities .
the commission ’ s stance , in particular , is animated by an institutional commitment to a fiscal view point that leaves no room for evidence .
over the last two decades , every effort to discipline the eu ’ s fiscal del inqu ents has failed , owing to the lack of enforcement authority .
what happens in afghanistan as america begins to draw down its troops will test the willingness of all of asia ’ s powers to work together to build a secure regional order .
i will stop talking about our ‘ historical waters , ’ and order the removal of the ‘ nine- dashed ’ line from the map in chinese pass ports .
the alternative – further escalation of the asian arms race – is in no one ’ s interest .
in 2015 , robot sales in asia increased by 19 % – the fourth record- breaking year in a row .
in floo d- prone countries , city- planning schemes should bl end gra y infrastructure , such as dra in age systems , di kes , and sea walls , with green measures , like conservation of wetlands and forests .
the causes of the crisis were contested at the time , and they remain contested to this day .
complicating matters further is the need for park to devise a viable response to a new diplomatic charm offensive by north korea ’ s usually ch arm less leader , kim jong-un .
in china , it is less than 40 % – far below the norm for the world ’ s major economies and for other asian economies at a comparable stage of development – despite nearly 7 % annual average growth in china ’ s per capita consumption in recent years .
on the contrary , private consumption fell to a record-low 45 % of developing asia ’ s gdp in 2010 – down ten percentage points from 2002 .
if any country should understand the impact that such humili ations can have , it is china .
the african union aspires to become a united states of africa .
in particular , changes in global liquidity conditions are likely to send asia ’ s financial and foreign-exchange markets on a roll er- coast er ride , fueling pressure to keep up with interest-rate hikes in the advanced economies .
during the recent economic crisis , asia accounted for more than half of global gdp growth .
india and africa have been linked over the centuries by trade , religion , and post- imperial political consciousness .
in japan , too , worries about chinese assertiveness have become so powerful that a government that showed considerable hostility to the us-japan alliance when it came to power three years ago had , by november , begun to trum pet the alliance ’ s mutu al- defense commitments as it confronted china ’ s claim to the senkaku ( diaoyu ) islands .
at a time when , despite economic growth in asia , there is much social and income inequality , as well uncertainty about the dur ability of peace in the region , the desire to find fresh solutions to problems has given a powerful boost to women leaders .
but , most critically , too few companies in the region offer flexible working options .
in fact , only an alliance of democracies can ensure the emergence of a strong rules-based order and a stable balance of power in the world ’ s most economically dynamic region .
as the chart above shows , with the exception of already- rich asian economies such as australia , hong kong , japan , and singapore , per capita income in asian economies falls , or will fall , far short of other advanced economies at similar stages of the aging cycle .
asia ’ s brics hit the wall
the term “ princ eling ” is probably an unfair description of china ’ s xi .
such relationships will be all the more crucial if global economic conditions deteriorate .
asia ’ s fragile special relationship
a recent us defense department paper , “ china ’ s military and security developments – 2011 , ” argued that “ china ’ s ‘ near sea ’ politics has seriously disturbed not only india , but japan , australia , the us , and the asean countries . ”
asia ’ s overlooked great power
its two giants , india and china , are especially determined , as indian author as hu tos h sh es hab alay a recently put it , “ to return to their nineteenth-century status , when they accounted for well over half of world economic output . ”
for example , legal markets are dominated by rich lawyers , schools are controlled by teachers ’ unions , and the medical sector is influenced by powerful doctors , resulting in high business costs that also hamper industrial development .
in fact , the us ’ s net liabilities have grown lately – to $ 7.8 trillion at the end of september 2016 – owing largely to its continuing current-account deficit and stronger exchange-rate effects .
from its growing repression of political dissidents and ethnic minorities to its efforts to upend the territorial status quo in asia , china constantly tests how far it can go .
manila – many parts of asia have been gripped by se aring temperatures and the worst drought in decades .
the increasing depth requires 3-4 times more hor se power for each pump .
in fact , the third world center for water management estimates that only about 10- 12 % of domestic and industrial waste water produced in latin america is properly managed .
can these relationships be transformed into anything resem bling a cooperative effort ?
but his administration could face formidable opposition from different quarters .
economic problems could of course originate from international political events .
morocco boasts solid infrastructure , a robust banking system , sound public finances , low inflation , and manageable unemployment .
bangkok – joseph estr ada , the disgrac ed former president of the philippines , faces the prospect of spending his remaining years in prison after a special court in manila found him guilty of am assing around us $ 15 million in bribes and kick backs .
there is no safe path forward .
america ’ s net exports will have to increase , meaning that the net exports of china , japan , and other surplus countries will consequently decrease .
so , while the us may technically be close to the end of a severe recession , most of america is facing a near- depression .
the truth is that ever since the end of the 1970 ’ s , china has become convinced that peace and stability are the most important preconditions for its development .
“ do not fool yourself . nationalism and imperialism will lead you nowhere ; you can not expand geographically without serious costs to your economic growth and your personal enrichment .
i am one of several dozen of the guantánamo who can not return to our native countries because we would likely be tortured and abused .
both positions are firmly held and can be buttressed by arguments that are valid from the point of view of the country concerned . but the controversy threatens to disrupt the april 2 meeting .
the conservatives seem to believe that american nuclear protection for south korea is a thing of the past .
the strength of the bretton woods institutions lies in intellectual diversity , and the fund benefited from wolfensohn ’ s honesty , as well as from his commitment to bank- fund cooperation , which progres sively deepened during the past decade .
the violence seems to be proportional to these disenfranch ised young people ’ s sense of perceived injustice and the lack of opportunities for them to express themselves .
xi ’ s visit is not expected to usher in any breakthroughs .
but someone had to do something .
those who exercise power may do so only in limited ways . the limits are set by rights .
should europeans be worried ?
the risk of inaction or inappropriate action has reached enormous proportions .
but it would be r ash to conclude that the interwar crisis has nothing to teach us . quite the contrary .
they are able to resist all meaningful reform that could really change their compensation schemes .
a third problem with the conventional keynesian interpretation is that the bal anc ed- budget approach during the great depression did actually work .
as a policy , this is inequ itable , inefficient , and unlikely to lower emissions at a pace that is sufficient to meet the conditions of the global climate-change agreement expected to be reached in paris in december .
according to my research , from 1990 to 2001 , austrian subsidiaries in eastern europe employed five times as many people with academic degrees , as a percentage of staff , as their parent firms did . they also engaged 25 % more research personnel in their labs .
and they created a special tax and migration regime to attract regional headquarters of multinational companies .
illiberal thinkers on the far right and left admire strongmen who stand up to america .
richard thal er , a contemporary economist , spoke in 1980 of an “ endow ment effect . ”
over the past two decades , government outlays for skills training and labor-market adjustment have fallen in most oecd countries .
labor markets in the age of automation
“ for society as a whole , machines can take on work that is routine , dangerous , or dirty , and may allow us to use our intrins ically human talents more fully and enjoy more leisure . ”
organizations , businesses , and people all have to adapt to the technologically driven shifts in our economies ’ structure .
when the vill ain , the american military leader of the attack , plans to bomb flat the indigenous people ’ s sacred tree , he boasts that he will blow such a massive hole in their “ racial memory ” that they won ’ t come “ within a thousand cl icks ” of the place again .
even when the reasons are bad , moreover , tariff increases do not always provoke foreign retaliation .
john ku fu or , ghana ’ s president from 2001 to 2009 , exemplified such leadership , boosting investment in agricultural research , farmer education , and infrastructure projects , such as roads , w are houses , and cold storage .
they would like nothing better than for america and europe to be at odds , rather than working together .
the same is true of democracy .
about 80 % of it – especially the coal , which em its the most co2 when burned – will have to stay in the ground .
there are reasons for people to feel anxious about economic globalization , pan-european bureaucracy , the huge and not always effectively controlled influx of immigrants , and the aggression of radical political islam .
g are th ev ans , a former australian foreign minister , has called it “ a powerful diplomatic tool , ” while the washington post has called for the warrant to be used “ as a bargaining chip with mr. bashir and his chinese and arab allies . ”
it would limit each country to 1, 5 50 strategic warheads on 700 deployed delivery vehicles .
“ it is the beginning of the path toward a more ordered world that we must attain if we want to escape destruction . ”
it is true that catch-up growth is easier in manufacturing than in other sectors , a point recently emphasized by dani rodrik of harvard university , and it may be that a good portion of it has been exhausted in manufacturing by the best- performing firms in emerging countries .
unemployment is surging in many countries , even though we can detect the first signs of recovery from the recession . many bankers , meanwhile , are back to the tr ough as though nothing had happened .
in 2010 , we will discover that neither has the power to keep us- chinese relations on track .
for example , they must prevent the manipulation of reviews and other practices that mis lead consumers trying to assess the quality of a company ’ s service .
the el der statesman of this generation of pragm ati sts died last week .
what matters now is whether russia ’ s economy will share yukos ’ s fate .
definitions of the post-war baby boom vary by country .
since july 2010 , the top dec ile ’ s wealth has increased three times faster than that of the bottom 50 % of the population .
the us government , for its part , tends to speak sof tly when it comes to human-rights abuses in turkey .
meanwhile , global difficulties remain substantial .
as is usual with this ex- kgb man , putin is being c unning about ukraine , but he is delu ding himself if he thinks that siding with yanukovych will bring back effective russian overl ord ship of ukraine .
kazakhstan ’ s historical ties to russia and its geographical proximity to china have caused a keen competition between those two countries for influence .
berkeley – complaints about the inflationary effects of american monetary policy are rampant , despite there being barely a hint of inflation in the united states .
no mainstream european leader , including hollande , even mentions this new division .
ibrahim has established a foundation whose main purpose is to raise standards of governance in africa .
investment banks and credit rating agencies believed in financial al chem y – the notion that significant value could be created by sl icing and dic ing securities .
it intends to boost domestic demand and is committed to moving gradually toward greater exchange rate flexibility .
eu leaders can not guarantee that the process of joining the bloc will be quick and easy .
for comparison , we also carried out interviews in 58 urban areas where garment factories are not located .
all of asia ’ s powers , including china and japan , will have to play a part in stopping bangladesh ’ s drift into fanati cism and chaos .
the current proposal , which the us house of representatives has already passed , has other major flaws .
it ’ s the big banks that continue to prefer being highly leveraged .
haiti ’ s prospects are improving in other areas as well , owing partly to the un ’ s commitment to the country .
so which is it : are banks still at risk ?
our models of quanti fiable risk fail when faced with radical uncertainty .
the boe ’ s governor , mark carney , deserves great credit for allowing us to peer through a small crack in the old lady of thre ad need le street ’ s façade ( assuming , of course , that the blog is not a wholly un licensed initiative ! ) .
with kuroda ’ s term ending in early april , two camps of critics have become increasingly vocal .
the law must contain specific provisions regarding such matters in order to ensure successful listing of restructuring firms .
power always depends on context , and in today ’ s world , it is distributed in a pattern that resembles a complex three- dimensional chess game .
for eight years , george w. bush has managed to incar nate and reinforce all the prejudices and negative stereotypes the world has of the us .
but it is more likely to be perceived as a grand deception – remembered not for helping syria ’ s people , but mainly as a sign of america ’ s growing international weakness .
for starters , qaddafi managed to unify a country that , since the greek invasion in the seventh century bc , had been divided between a coastal strip linked to the larger mediterranean basin and an isolated h inter land that even ben ito mussolini ’ s brutal regime could not secure .
dollar commodity prices could plunge at any time , as a result of a new recession , an increase in real interest rates in the united states , fluctuations in climate , or random sec tor- specific factors .
with his sense of show manship , sarkozy almost effor t lessly ecli p sed barroso when handling the russia- georgia crisis in august , followed by the eu ’ s responses to the autumn crisis of casc ading bank collapses .
the prospect of higher interest rates in the us weakens the incentive for investors to pour capital into emerging economies in discrimin ately .
the chinese authorities may then be forced to tighten the quotas made available to the clearing banks .
and is monetary policy a sufficiently subtle instrument to address the resulting risks ?
other attempts to establish networks of swap lines and credits , such as the chi ang ma i initiative , which was negotiated in the wake of the asian crisis , have been be dev iled by the same problem .
household consumption accounts for only one-third of gdp , compared to two-thirds in a normal economy .
nor is it clear where the crisis countries will find the demand that they need .
and an increase in the cost of credit is likely to depress growth and generate welfare losses .
the kenya project provides a guaranteed poverty- ending income for those who receive it .
far ce quickly turned to tragedy in the face of the dictator ’ s rage .
the swiss franc is not the only currency that has appreciated in recent months .
his “ crime ” ?
that is no longer true .
as countries develop , household air and water pollution – ancient forms of pollution linked to severe poverty – decline .
such vulnerabilities raise troubling questions in the event of a war .
what makes the north korea precedent particularly troubling is how much iran has mim icked the regime in pyongyang .
moreover , kenya ’ s desire to car ve out a buffer state conflicts with the somali government ’ s goal of uniting the country .
what trump has achieved , berlusconi pioneered .
the government has failed to take any meaningful action , and the problem is getting worse .
another issue with the potential to undermine the p d ’ s standing is the party ’ s advocacy of a new wealth tax .
bernanke ’ s defense was robust and unequivocal .
a new caliphate ?
according to one estimate , the total compensation that farmers received for their land over the last 20 years was ¥ 2 trillion ( $ 3 22 billion ) below market value , equivalent to 4 % of china ’ s 2013 gdp .
but not all targets are equally good .
indeed , beth leh em ’ s cultural heritage extends well beyond the walls of the church of the nati vity .
our challenge – and opportunity – is to overcome the deeply entrenched barriers that impede progress for women and girls .
but if our goal is to learn , that is a feature , not a bu g .
indeed , more often than not , the banks that failed or had to be rescued in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis had solvency ratios higher than those of banks that remained standing without assistance .
even more stagger ingly , us borrowing now so aks up more than two-thirds of the combined excess savings of all the surplus countries in the world , including china , japan , germany , and the opec states .
economic growth during the putin years , combined with the defeat of georgia – which was regarded in russia as the beginning of a great political comeback – provided the confidence needed to embrace efforts to re- model the transatlantic security architecture .
we must not slip back into a “ business as usual ” approach as fukushima rec edes from memory .
formerly , the state decided everything , and many people , particularly in the middle and older generation , began to see freedom as a burden , because it entailed continuous decision-making .
but we should not sit idly by and refrain from taking sides .
moreover , the increased supply of high-quality female labor will not incur additional healthcare and pension costs , unlike labor immigration .
as with the j gi p , sp z s would provide opportunities for investors from the region and beyond to contribute to , and profit from , peace .
fortunately , a wary press corps , powerful governments , and nervous competitors watch its every move , hoping the company to fight its many temptations .
but consider a steel , automobile , or fertilizer plant – or a tourist resort , a hospital , or a bank .
the killing of osama bin laden last year required an actual hit squ ad to verify its success , but normally assass inations can be left to drones – un man ned aircraft , mainly used for surveillance , but which can be armed with compu ter- guided missiles .
to be sure , analytical frameworks are still needed to help make sense of the data .
today , however , the n hs faces mounting challenges , owing to the years of “ austerity ” after the 2008 financial crisis , as well as to larger changes in the pharmaceutical industry ’ s business model .
the who f ct c provides guidelines on topics such as tobacco taxation , public awareness and education , and package warnings .
thus , domestic credit growth began to deceler ate only in august 2011 , when the escalation of the eurozone crisis made global investors more wary of risky emerging markets .
ken ’ s salary generates income tax and social security payments that help finance government programs for less fortunate members of his community .
some of the resources that forests provide – such as timber , fire wood , and tourism – can be valu ated relatively easily .
when people reck lessly use antibiotics to fight a common cold , when farmers use antibiotics to boost livestock productivity , or when pharmac ological factories emit antibiotics into the environment to cut production costs , the bacteria that the drugs are designed to kill become immune .
bio fuel technology kills four birds with one stone : it improves energy security , rec y cles waste , reduces greenhouse-gas emissions , and produces jobs ( often in rural areas ) .
these efforts have generally focused on methods for improving water sanitation and energy delivery .
but regulators can undo mirac les , and they regularly do .
the same may not be true for emerging economies .
the ec claimed that it delayed the announcement on gujarat so that the electoral code of conduct ( which would restrict government spending in the state ) would not impede flood relief .
and , for the foreseeable future , that electricity will be generated by fossil fuels .
when examining the cost of conflict , the copenhagen consensus economists estimate the actual costs of global military expenditure .
previous generations ’ use of lead in p aints and gasoline is estimated to cause almost 700,000 deaths annually . gr oun d- level ozone pollution kills more than 15 0,000 people per year , while global warming causes another 14 1,000 deaths .
despite a recent increase , real coal prices have been tr ending downward since the 1950s .
the optimists , by contrast , cheer fully claim that everything – human health , living standards , environmental quality , and so on – is getting better .
as the economist george p sach ar op ou los recommended in a recent paper , the highest priority should be what works best : early education , especially pres cho ol .
the rich world gets just 1.2 % of its energy from hugely expensive solar and wind technologies , and we would never accept having power only when the wind was blowing .
copenhagen – what is the biggest source of violence in our world ?
the bear has no idea that its days are num bered unless it remains in the forest and hun ts in the traditional way for its meals .
this year , a new global climate agreement will be negotiated in copenhagen to replace the kyoto protocol .
but even if the french do vote “ no , ” that will not solve the british problem : on the contrary , it will precipitate a major political crisis , in france and across europe , concerning the future of the eu – the type of crisis that the british have spent fifty years trying to evade . for if the constitution is indeed dead , what happens next ?
while governments and central banks race fran tically to find a solution , there is a profound psychological dynamic at work that stands in the way of an orderly debt work out : our aversion to recognizing obligations to strangers .
american policy might as well have been made in likud ’ s headquarters .
and , perhaps most important , they are based on trusted authorities that have established their credibility over time .
for one thing , block chains themselves rely on protocols like t c p- ip , so it isn ’ t clear how they would ever serve as a replacement .
the case went to the local court , where the judge ruled it an `` accidental traffic distur b ance '' and gave the driver a two-year suspended sentence .
the age of bo b by fischer
this will fuel uncertainty , s ap economic confidence , and almost certainly hurt the republicans at the polls in 2016 .
as a recent us state department report points out , nigerian citizens ’ “ grievances regarding poverty , government and security- force corruption , and police impunity and brutality [ have ] created a fertile ground for recruiting boko haram members . ”
complacency trum ps anxiety almost everywhere .
as the g8 leaders gather in scotland , it is hard to imagine them coming up with a better investment in our common future .
and next september , california governor jer ry brown will host his own summit to galvanize greater action by cities , companies , and other non-state actors .
the great disconnect
but unemployment is most pronounced in the construction and automobile sectors , or in regions where house prices rose particularly rapidly .
but biop las tics are not a silver bullet for managing plastics waste .
after all , donor countries are mired in debt and stagnation , while some recipient economies are growing 5- 7 times faster than they are .
so how likely is the us to enact the bat ?
johnson did more than anyone to bury britain ’ s european future ; but his ultra- flexibility may yet prove to be its salvation .
a second , medium-term risk involves capital-flow reversals .
but the fram ers of south africa ’ s post- apartheid constitution , which entered into force in 1997 , held their ground and the practice was abolished .
the time and other resources that individuals and firms devote to seeking government favors would be far more valuable if re directed to producing goods and services .
the paradox of ak i hito ’ s tour – for which singh has appointed a special envoy with ministerial rank to oversee preparations – is that japan is investing substantial political capital to build a strong , long-term partnership with india ’ s government at a time when india is gripped by policy paralysis .
indeed , it was just before president hu jintao ’ s 2006 visit that china resurrec ted its claim to india ’ s large northeastern state of ar un achal pradesh .
if other countries em ulated the example set by china and the us by establishing unilateral claims to international airspace , a dangerous situation would result .
china then demanded that all aircraft trans iting the zone – whether headed for chinese airspace or not – submit flight plans in advance .
after laying claim to 80 % of the south china sea , it has just established a so-called air defense identification zone in the east china sea , raising the odds of armed conflict with japan and threatening the principle of freedom of navigation of the seas and sk ies .
the us may have some of the world ’ s top think tanks and most highly educated minds .
nothing in economic theory supports keeping real government spending constant over a period as long as a decade .
for its part , the imf would give the adjustment program its stamp of approval and make its own resources available , so that brazil does not have to tap international capital markets for a reasonable period .
and yet public investment ( including in infrastructure ) has declined , amounting to less than 0.7 % of gdp last year .
brazil , iran , and the road to the security council
the bank had insufficient legal backing for action needed to stabilize the financial system .
brazil ’ s political legitimacy problem is particularly acute .
yet there is still a long way to go .
for 25 years , the so-called “ washington consensus ” – comprising measures aimed at expanding the role of markets and constraining the role of the state – has dominated economic development policy .
this richer notion stems from ancient japanese culture , which perceived the overlap between ge ome try and meaning .
it is time to recognize that breast - cancer screening does not save lives – and to focus on the strategies that will .
perhaps .
of course , eu membership is not just about economics .
similarly , since the brexit vote , the debate over the rights of eu citizens already re siding in the uk , along with the recent controversy over the so-called win dr ush generation of immigrants from the caribbean , has attracted public support for migrants .
the question is whether the economy can withstand the actual divorce proceedings .
during a comparable period , ethiopia ’ s population more than tripled , to 101 million .
american leadership buttressed it in the decades after world war ii ; but the united states no longer regards itself as the guardian of multilateral rules .
mind you , citizens of the west are blessed to live in a time of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through democratic processes instead of foreign and civil wars .
this has given nationalist parties the perfect target for their anti-eu campaigns .
for their part , eu governments would want to punish britain , not least because they know that a vel vet divorce with britain would bolster anti-eu parties , such as france ’ s far-right national front , which has already called for a referendum on eu membership .
germany ’ s conservative finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , france ’ s center-left economy minister emmanuel macron , and italy ’ s centrist finance minister pi er car lo pad o an , have all called for versions of a common eurozone finance minister .
gone are the days when accelerating economic and financial globalization and correlated growth patterns went almost un questioned . we are also in an era of considerable technological and political flu idity .
here ’ s how .
another compl ication is political : the rise of nationalism in scotland and the effect of brexit on the survival of the united kingdom .
this time , however , the workers who lose their jobs , the pensioners who lose their savings , and the homeowners who are trapped in negative equity will not be able to blame “ the bankers . ”
the us rose to global pre dominance as europeans fought one another and their empires declined .
brexit in context
young people are eager to find well- paying jobs , whether in britain or elsewhere in europe .
before things can get better for britain , they will probably have to get much worse .
in december 2017 , all parties con cur red that such a backstop was necessary to preserve the peace under the good friday agreement .
or brexit itself could be delayed for a number of years , with the “ norway plus ” model serving as the ultimate goal .
as a gesture of goodwill , the eu should also support the uk ’ s efforts to “ grandfather ” its market access resulting from existing eu free-trade agreements and thereby avoid the need to renegotiate each and every deal .
the appalling failure of brexit
the leave campaign also claimed that free movement of labor he ight ens the supposed dangers of terrorism and higher unemployment for british workers .
at any rate , one must make the best of the hand that has been dealt .
the european project will succeed only when it creates a european sense of “ us ” so powerful that it feels right that , say , bulgar ians should be permitted to live and work in bir m ing ham .
the only remaining justification for the obviously inferior form of eu association that may is now proposing is the populist claim that “ the people have spoken . ”
yet that is exactly what is needed to make decisions on behalf of an entire community .
the limited e ec of 30 years ago does not compare to the robust eu of today , just as greenland pal es in comparison with the uk in economic size or political significance .
for this to be achieved , the eu must establish a common security policy and military force .
it is a key front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy .
and , under the parliamentary system , victorious prime ministers could work to carry out the policies on which they had campaigned .
stanford – a few years ago , pundits and policymakers were predicting that the brics countries – brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa – would be the new engines of global growth .
and , according to goldman sachs , about 85 % of the world ’ s middle class will be living in the brics and other developing countries by 2030 .
conventional wisdom suggests that scottish independence is possible , albeit not very likely , while any country ’ s departure from the single currency is fanciful .
future us consumption will be greener , and the cost of climate policy reduced , if the us recovery package includes money to wea ther ize homes , upgrade the electricity grid , and help the auto industry improve fuel efficiency .
bringing it all back home
a europe built around such a core cor responds to what i call a “ satur n model , ” with a huge planet in the middle , surrounded by rings , conver ging sooner or later in the center .
so the damage is set to continue .
these requirements are interdependent .
migration within europe was negligible when the eu was mainly west european .
politicians , financial analysts , and political commentators have limited time and attention .
london – shortly after uk prime minister theresa may ’ s decision to call an unexpected “ brexit election , ” i wrote that pro- europeans in britain might yet s nat ch victory from the ja ws of defeat .
this conundrum is symbol ized by the debate over de taining terrorism suspects without charge or trial .
the bank of england recently injected an additional £ 75 billion into the economy via so-called quantitative easing .
as we saw in 2008 , when irish referendum voters refused to ratify the treaty of lisbon , there is a potential anti-immigrant voting bloc in the poorer parts of dublin .
yet , without a political union , it is hard to see how the eurozone can be made to work .
what i can do is try to explain why that uncertainty exists .
the uk no longer wi elds the international influence it once did ; indeed , britons hardly seem to be bothered by their country ’ s downgrad ed importance – or even very much aware of the implications .
our elected leaders , often among the first to demand sound strategy , succession planning , and accountability in the private sector , have spectacularly failed to practice what they pre ach .
what some are thinking is that brexit is a license to abuse men , women , and children who live and work here .
in controlled studies , mul l ain athan and sha f ir asked princeton university students to play a timed computer game in which they were given the opportunity to “ borrow ” extra secon ds , even though doing so would mean for fe iting double the number of secon ds from their overall time .
on the other hand , almost 60 % of these people use a mobile phone .
lebanon , jordan , and ( to a lesser extent ) turkey have opened up their public schools to syrian refugees .
but the only way to back the project was to buy shares in the parent compan y — which encomp assed music , film , camer a , and television businesses as well .
and , because big bubbles last for many years , predicting them means predicting many years in the future , which is a bit like predicting who will be running the government two elections from now .
he is mostly right : the best thing that monetary authorities could have done , given their other priorities and concerns , is to lean against the real estate bubble , not stop it from infl ating .
even the small handful of relevant studies exploring possible risks lacked a guiding focus , giving no indication that the information developed would help decision-makers ensure that nanotechnology is developed safely over the long term .
the euro is now six years old . it is past time to consider how it is performing , and whether it has lived up to the expectations that accompanied its birth .
other challenges loom .
second , with likud ’ s benjamin netanyahu as prime minister , israel now has a government which is far less likely to be willing – or able – to make major concessions and evac uate hundreds of thousands of israeli settlers from the west bank .
french president françois hollande , in particular , has intensified his opposition to the agreement in the run-up to next year ’ s presidential election .
we need a more ethical approach to engineering technology , one that integr ates constitutional , cultural , and moral norms and values into artificial and autonomous systems .
achieving this will not come without suffering .
the muslim brotherhood is not a violent organization , and it has not engaged in illegal activities in the gulf countries .
in particular , they have objected to the ecb ’ s unlimited commitment ( “ whatever it takes , ” in ecb president mario draghi ’ s famous phrase ) to the purchase of crisis- hit countries ’ government securities .
while the world watches , burma 's generals are consolidating their tyrann ical rule as hundreds of thousands of the cycl one ’ s survivors remain in desperate need of shelter , clean drinking water and medical care .
at that time , one had to be careful , given the government ’ s sensitivities , even about how one framed the country ’ s problems – its poverty , lack of rural productivity , and unskilled workforce .
bush loses in the supreme court and america wins
from what we have seen over the past five years , the correct answer probably contains more than a little bad faith and sheer in ep titude .
it is a policy that has proved to be ineffective , and that is illegal under international law because it targets israeli civilians .
here , lawyers fell back on another series of techniques .
bush ’ s new middle east
if bush ’ s new military plan is a temporary step to buy time to move in the direction of the iraq study group ’ s proposals of training iraqi forces and gradually withdrawing american forces , there may be something to be said for it as one last chance , but only if it is accompanied by the diplomatic advice that the study group also suggested .
this provoked a brain drain as experienced fem a personnel moved into the private sector
and it happens because the transformation in the conception of what a business is has yet to be reflected in the conception of what a business association should be .
more than 2, 800 participants – including companies with market capitalization totaling $ 11 trillion and investors with $ 2 3.4 trillion in assets under management – have been involved in the s as b process .
safe driving for fast companies
on the contrary , multinational corporations must use their market power to drive social change .
the communist revolution that span ned the nineteenth and twentieth centuries was about concentrating government ownership of capital .
today ’ s most urgent task therefore must be to prevent this from happening , and then to check further advances in the north ’ s nuclear weapons and delivery capabilities .
consider , for example , oil , gas , and coal .
these sorry episodes reveal some important lessons .
stanford – if one looks past the headlines of the media ’ s full-time donald trump coverage , one can discern a global shift in political , economic , and cultural forces that might prove far more consequential for america and the world than the actual trump presidency .
a large part of the money and credit that was created out of nothing from former interbank transactions , now excluded from official guarantees , would return to nothing .
foreign aid , including from the us , accounts for as much as 40 % of cambodia ’ s national budget .
but the success of such an approach depends on israel ’ s readiness to engage hamas , which it continues to regard as a terrorist group , and on the viability of egyptian mediation .
it would be hard to say that they do . indeed , many business leaders deny that there is any conflict between self-interest and the interests of all .
the rate hikes will likely continue this year , though the speed and extent of the increases are uncertain .
naturally , individual cases dictate which tests and treatments are best , but an additional concern about frequent scre en ings is the problem of false posi tives .
indeed , cases of cancer that are not tied to smoking or aging are increasing .
policies to expand social security and improve the provision of public goods could support these efforts , boosting domestic consumption by allowing households to reduce their precautionary savings .
internal criticism of the chinese government ’ s management of health , safety , and overall qual ity- of- life issues is growing .
indeed , it has become a dominant theme of bush ’ s second term .
greater legally respected decentralization in ukraine , especially in crimea , would be a logical and overdue `` state nation '' policy .
elevated p sa levels would suggest the presence of pro state cancer , even if no physical ab normal ities were detected , so a tissue biop sy would be conducted .
can east asians cooperate ?
egypt is , however , better placed to embrace democracy than the other arab countries , because the obstacles to democracy in the arab world are less formidable in egypt than elsewhere .
this management structure is neither democratically legitimate nor justified by its performance ( which appears to consist of mere reactions to pressure from financial markets ) .
in 2008 , india capped rice exports , and argentina did the same for wheat exports , as did russia in 2010 .
the average palestinian – and israeli , too – needs to believe that peace is possible .
people at the time appreciated that they were standing up to israel in lebanon and gaza , and pushing back against aggressive american policies in the region .
a little more than a decade ago , l loy d b ent sen , president bill clinton 's first treasury secretary , tried to ensure precisely that , proposing to use a `` b tu tax '' to close america 's fiscal deficit .
but italy has significant strengths as well .
this was the case in 17 00 , and it remains true today .
these are the two big countries said to be taking over the world , the new cont enders for global emin ence after centuries of western domination , the ori ental answer to generations of oc cid ental economic success .
but to hold a g-8 meeting in st. petersburg in an atmosphere of “ business as usual ” may be even more dangerous .
in particular , countries that break the pact ’ s deficit ceiling because they overestimated their growth – and hence government revenue – want to be treated more len i ently than those who deliberately violate the rules .
4.3
- 1.7
3.1
- 1.8
so , too , were the decisions to push out his hard- ed ged chief strategist , steve bannon , and to carry out a deliber ative afghanistan policy review , which changed trump ’ s mind about us policy there .
as author af sh in mol avi wrote in his inc is ive travel ogue persian pilgr images , iranian youth today are not revolutionary ide alists , like those of three decades ago .
charity inspires , reassuring us of our humanity , but it is often capric ious . you wouldn ’ t want to rely on it .
if it had turned out that chlor ine behaved chem ically like bro mine , the ozone hole would by then have been a global , year- round phenomenon , not just an event of the antarctic spring .
and it is normal for economic growth to be slow ; rapid growth , after all , requires creative destruction ; and , because what would be destroyed would be the plutocr ats ’ wealth , they are unlikely to encourage it .
this person alization draws upon regions of the brain that evolved when our trading partners were members of small kin -based groups where moral violations were immediately identified and remedi ed .
we will be saying , ‘ come to my house .
today , rand ’ s fic tional world has seemingly become a reality – endless bailouts and economic stimulus for the unproductive at the expense of the most productive , and calls for additional taxation on capital investment .
and the increasingly heavy influence of political factors on market performance will likely weigh on global growth for years to come .
none of these explanations is an adequate excuse for the ecb ’ s opposition to deep invol un tary restructuring of greece ’ s debt .
indeed , some countries may have been encouraged to do less than they otherwise would have in order to maintain a strong negotiating position .
it is a practice of acknowledgement , em path ic imagination , witnessing , responsibility , solidarity , and the most concrete forms of assistance .
its economy initially suffered from the failure of its biggest company , nokia , to adapt to smartphone technologies .
ne far ious operators are known to pay fake review services to bolster ratings .
more than 3,000 people die in au to- related accidents every day .
the expon ential climate action roadmap shows that we do still have a say over our climate future .
in light of these realities , there is reason to worry that a fragmentation of national strategies could hamper growth in the digital economy .
when did that loss of faith happen ? wasn ’ t it when the economy was hit by a housing and financial crisis , which economists were supposed to predict ?
furthermore , budget support that ’ s linked to national poverty- reduction strategies also rests on the questionable assumption that the political economy of a partner country works to the benefit of the poorest .
africans are lat ec om ers to the demonetization movement .
catalonia provides an excellent case study of europe ’ s broader conundrum .
but this is no time for petty minds and narrow visions .
to ensure dignity , freedom , and social participation for everyone , global leaders must work to effect change across political , religious , and cultural boundaries .
moreover , if the agenda that xi presents for the next five years suggests that he and the rest of the ccp leadership are losing credibility and struggling to maintain the party ’ s economic and social contract with the people , the 19th congress will be very relevant .
but the earthquake that russia triggered in ukraine has also exposed dangerous fault lines across europe .
along with the enter prising teenagers who built n ap ster , academics like lor ri e faith cr an or at carnegie m ell on m apped out the shape of potential new networks with lofty names like “ pu b li us , ” through which unpopular views could be circul ated outside of easy governmental control .
moreover , kazakhstan ’ s strategic importance has increased as a result of recent revelations that the country ’ s kas ha gan oil field will produce 25 % more than initially expected at peak production .
this goal was especially dear to the c ant ons , the states of the swiss confederation , which rely on transfers from the sn b for a significant share of their budgets .
most important , macroprudential regulation has been added to policymakers ’ toolkit : simply put , it makes sense to vary banks ’ capital requirements according to the financial cycle .
if the fed announ ces that it will tolerate 4 % inflation , could the public think that the fed is blu ff ing , or that , if an implicit inflation target can be broken once , it can be broken again ?
and “ personality over burden ing ” – when trust in the success of monetary policy is concentrated on the person at the helm of the institution – means that individual leaders ’ reputations are likely to suffer as well .
the transition to the new stance will involve a broader and much more political role for the central bank .
that is no mistake ; it is the essence of monetary policy .
central bankers sometimes ration alize their current policies not by ext oll ing the benefits of low inflation , but by underscoring the heavy costs of even mild deflation .
the shift to negative interest rates is all the more problematic .
indeed , the
by freeing up resources devoted to enforcing policies against low- level users , countries can better tackle serious drug- supply issues and provide people with the effective treatment that they need and deserve .
in europe , the eu has continued to kick the can down the road , rather than deal with its crises in sovereign debt , banking , growth , and unemployment .
the cf ta – one of 12 flag ship programs under the african union ’ s ( au ) agenda 20 63 framework – could double intra- african trade and bring enormous benefits to the continent .
however , doing this for the world as a whole is far from easy .
the possibility of military intervention in syria , together with the deteriorating situation in egypt since the army ’ s coup , has placed the region on a raz or ’ s edge .
when ahmadinejad came to power , rowhani lost his position as the council ’ s secretary , but became khamenei ’ s personal representative to it – a post that he has held until now .
the specific patterns of change are not known precisely , but the risks of continuing on our current global course are widely appreciated .
indeed , the european commission , which is working toward creating an energy union , is well placed to initiate an open dialogue with non-eu countries on long-term energy policies .
the financial crisis has been more damaging for the poor than it has been for the rich .
putin may regard the soviet union ’ s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
uniting against extremism
and congress is not about to pass an enabling act confer ring dictatorial powers on the president , as the re ich sta g did for hitler in march 1933 .
so , in this tale of two south american neighbors , unfortunately , little will change – unless , as so often happens , the unexpected suddenly becomes inevitable , in which case all bets are off .
urbanization is inevitable : an economy of 1.2 billion people can not employ two-thirds of them in agriculture and hope to grow ; rural people will inevitably move to cities to seek work and better lives .
iraq constituted at most a gathering threat , not an imminent one .
even “ innocent ” companies and organizations must evaluate and upgrade their policies for protecting vulnerable people , along with their means for enforcing those policies .
given recent and ongoing conflicts in syria , iraq , gaza , and south sudan , which have devastated so many young lives , the nobel committee had good cause to highlight children ’ s suffering .
to put this in context , the us department of agriculture estimates the cost of raising a middle-class us child to the age of 17 to be $ 23 3, 6 10 .
how do we explain the passion ar oused by the campaign and by sarkozy himself including the massive affirm ation he received in the parliamentary election ?
the government follows a wise fiscal strategy that involves budget surpluses in years when copper revenue is high , with the additional funds channeled to a national stabilization fund .
not even the school ’ s most enthusiastic boo sters – of which there are many – could argue with any certainty that it could produce such impressive results if it could not select its own students .
but the chilean government has little money left , having committed the revenues from a sizeable tax increase two years ago to the ill- conceived policy of free university education , even for high-income students .
moreover , at a substantive level there is not really that much difference between the two alliances ( and even less between the centrist piñera and fre i ) .
in fact , according to diplomats who were there , zhou was discussing not the revolution of 17 89 , but the 1968 student uprising in paris , so it probably really was too soon to tell .
many expected xi ’ s anti-corruption campaign to be a temporary initiative , intended to pave the way for implementation of the aggressive economic reforms announced at the third plen ary session of the 18th central committee in 2013 .
china ’ s growth rate has been falling since the first quarter of 2010 .
many commentators still discuss china as if it were solely an industrial power . but consumption in china has cre pt up nearly to 40 % of gdp .
that said , there are huge infrastructure needs across developing asia , and it is high time for china to play a greater role in international lending institutions .
this position has already exac ted a heavy price : had there been a more competitive marketplace of ideas , the flawed washington consensus might never have become a consensus at all .
the conventional wisdom on china within the us had already begun to sour before the 2016 presidential election .
however , when compared with the us , the esdp ( in chinese eyes ) cares far more about international legitimacy , backed by the authority of the un .
russia ’ s explosive “ revisionist ” behavior on the eve of the recent g8 summit is an indication of the kremlin ’ s “ un satisfied ” nature .
indeed , the objects of such speculation ast ound the imagination : tu lip bul bs , gold and silver mines , real estate , the debt of new nations , corporate securities .
the answer probably lies in its “ selec tocr acy . ”
otherwise , though , the transformation of china ’ s economy and society will be all- important , because the regime ’ s stability depends on it .
res cal ing china ’ s debt mountain
this is a basic social truth that most people know from their personal lives : happiness and harmony are far more important than the empty comfort of being convinced you ’ re right .
five trains full of c argo leave chongqing for germany every week , but only one full train returns .
but no one knows whether those outflows will translate into net foreign assets owned by chinese residents .
chinese academia more broadly has been the regime ’ s chief target in its search for enemies , with universities dismissing professors for esp ous ing “ se di tious ” ideas like constitu tionalism .
indeed , china has been shifting from hard power to soft throughout the region , and is using its economic power to challenge western- dominated multilateral institutions .
china ’ s new tactics also include more frequent high-level diplomatic engagement , focused on leading regional players , such as south korea , indonesia , and vietnam , in addition to japan .
but if the country is to realize its enormous soft-power potential , it will have to rethink its policies at home and abroad , limiting its claims upon its neighbors and learning to accept criticism in order to unleash the full talents of its civil society .
that may seem like marginal progress , but it is actually quite rapid relative to the normally glac ial pace of structural change – a process that began in china only in 2011 with the enactment of the 12th five-year plan .
in china ’ s view , it is not enough merely to require others to accommodate themselves to dollar devaluation .
more fundamentally , the government must accept the inev itability of lower near-term growth .
it may well be the toughest challenge xi faces in realizing what he calls the “ china dream . ”
these are hardly in consequential developments – especially for a country that must eventually align its financial infrastructure with a market-based consumer society .
with the recent monetary easing , the chinese authorities seem to be drawing a line in the sand to prevent an excessive drop in growth . this suggests that they now view a cyclical disruption as a real threat to the country ’ s longer-term structur al- reform agenda .
such activities threaten to su ck mo ist ure from other regions , potentially affecting asia ’ s mon so ons .
at the same time , china ’ s cash- rich companies have been employing all sorts of devices to get money out .
but even as the federal government increased regulation in some areas , the us remained highly reliant on the market , resulting in rising inequality , the deterioration of public infrastructure , and an unsustainable fiscal deficit and debt .
they fought like g lad i ators in the world ’ s most competitive market , learned to develop sophisticated business models ( such as ta ob ao ’ s fre em ium model ) , and built im pregn able mo ats to protect their businesses ( for example , me itu an- di an ping created an end -to- end food app , including delivery ) .
hong kong – over the past four decades , china has gone from being a low-wage supplier to one of the three most important links in the global value chain , alongside the united states and germany .
alibaba ’ s e-commerce platform expanded market access and reduced transaction costs , crowding out traditional midd l eman who undermined productivity .
with harder budget constraints imposed by the central government , local officials and state-owned enterprises ( soes ) have cur bed their spending on investment , and are now being overly cautious .
first among the emerging threats to chinese growth is us trade policy .
i worry that it could indicate a premature shift away from the consumer- led model back to china ’ s comfort zone of a producer model that has long been more amenable to the industrial engineering of central planning .
i have long argued that the fix ation on headline gdp over looks deeper issues shaping the china growth debate .
in order to achieve growth targets , the government thus must depend on exports and investment – an approach that leads to the accumulation of massive reserves , which subsequently need to be steril ized .
china is the largest foreign holder of us treasury securities , a major trade partner for the us , europe , latin america , and australia , and a key facilit ator of intra- asian trade , owing partly to the scale of its processing trade .
china is the largest trading country in the world , prompting calls for chinese leaders to assume greater responsibility for the overall health of the global economy .
indeed , according to the late economist gu st av ran is , the inter active dynamic of policy and market institutions was the key to the success of the east asian economies .
but even though i , too , was slightly taken ab ack by the cpc ’ s latest decision , i never considered that simplistic interpretation of modern-day china to be particularly sensible .
china ’ s retirement system has only about $ 4 30 billion of assets under management ( national and local government social security and private-sector pensions ) .
making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed marg in- buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks .
on july 6 , his latest trade restrictions – 25 % tariffs on about $ 34 billion of chinese imports – took effect .
and yet the chinese authorities ’ latest move indicates that they have no intention of playing by the rules .
china ’ s leaders seem to be betting that they can avoid both types of problems .
the c sr c was pursuing an excessively narrow objective , focusing only on getting the bull market going by delivering policies and speeches aimed at boosting investor confidence and spurring participation .
china confronts the mund ell - flem ing tril em ma
this relatively low standing partly reflects china ’ s maintenance of controls on capital flows , which make it hard for financial-market participants to get their hands on renminbi .
standing on the streets of one of these vibrant cities , one gains a deeper appreciation of recent data on china ’ s rising domestic consumption .
there needs to be a cultural shift , with citizens learning how to function in a society governed by reliable rules and legal structures , not geographical or famil ial ties .
all of this bodes well for china ’ s capacity to help counter the global slowdown in growth , trade , and investment .
it could not have chosen a more opportun e moment to assume a leadership role .
china and the future of commodity prices
the us would be wise to not oppose such a move .
the southern city of shenzhen is already known as the “ silicon valley of hardware , ” and the greater shen zhen - hong kong area is ranked second in terms of global inv entive clusters ( measured by patents ) .
america ’ s perpetual war- making in the middle east shows the worst .
as a result , there are simply too many lux ur ious con domin iums , magn ific ent government office buildings , and soaring sk ys cr apers .
but this does not mean that accountability will be lost .
that said , as china under goes structural economic transition , the stabilization potential of macroeconomic policy is limited .
efforts to address these structural challenges are being frustrated not just by institutional barriers , but also by entrenched official corruption .
in that case , the country will continue to be the world ’ s primary economic engine , contributing about 30 % of global growth until at least 2020 .
policies to improve the environment are also high on the government ’ s agenda for the next five years .
the underlying structural changes that have occurred in china in recent years reinforce this optimism .
trump is hardly the first american president to complain on this score , and he is right to do so ( though starting a trade war can not be the solution ) .
if one is accustomed to thinking about the experience of relatively rich countries , one might not realize that the same rise in imports could lead to opposite movements in trade balances between developing and developed countries .
more clearly defined and secu rely protected property rights , underpinned by an effective legal and judicial framework , are still needed .
of course , china ’ s government must uphold its commitment to implement structural reforms .
india sees nothing unusual in ri ji ju  , an ar un ach ali politician , being present for a major spiritual occasion .
moreover , china is planning to open a new naval base next to pakistan ’ s china- controlled g w ad ar port .
if it succeeds , it will have laid the institutional foundations for new sources of growth .
all of this was known to the great theorists of the 1920s and 1930s : hayek , frank kn ight , and john maynard keynes .
the fact is that there is much less innovation coming out of america than there once was – and hardly any coming out of europe .
its major cities ( including shanghai , guangdong , tian jin , and x i am en ) are still competing vigorously with one another , and a new breed of technologically innovative companies ( such as huawei , tencent , and alibaba ) are battling to open up new markets in goods , services , talent , capital , and knowledge .
singapore – last month , the bill & melinda gates foundation released a status report tracking progress on the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) .
chinese companies , in particular , will increasingly want to establish their brands internationally .
services , after all , will help drive china ’ s structural transition from a middle- to a high-income economy .
moreover , unlike the bank- funded initiatives of 3-4 years ago , which led to a worrisome overhang of local-government debt , the central government seems likely to play a much greater role in financing the current round of projects .
but can china really provide the alternative solutions needed to keep the engines of globalization running ?
clearly , anti dumping is the trade remedy of choice .
but that growth model has reached its end .
but with increasing foreign participation and interaction , maintaining stability means anch oring market confidence with transparent , credible policymaking and action .
regrett ably , most of the rest of the world has never given lee proper credit for crafting a hybrid system of authoritarianism and democracy that vastly improved the wellbeing of his country ’ s citizens , without subjec ting them to the brutality and oppression to which many of singapore ’ s neighbors have resorted .
even in a more homogeneous country like china , the absence of open public discourse does the opposite , as evidenced by the state ’ s mis handling of ethnic unrest among tibet ans and u igh urs .
a substantial share of the corporations holding large debts are state-owned , and are thus more subject to policy than they are to markets .
yet , in the aftermath of the global economic crisis , china insisted on maintaining extremely high growth rates of 9 % for two years , by relying on fiscal stimulus , huge liquidity injections , and a temporary halt in the renminbi ’ s appreciation .
in the meantime , china faces another , equally daunting challenge : the united states ’ growing determination to contain its growing influence .
shanghai – economists are increasingly divided over china ’ s economic future .
that claim was spur ious : china did supply data on the bra h m ap u tra to bangladesh .
among chinese , the effort to root out corruption has boosted respect and support for xi .
some developing economies are regre tting their decision to accept chinese loans .
in the us , a major infrastructure upgrade is long overdue , with politics , among other factors , impeding progress .
this growth must , however , be carefully managed .
a century ago , china was driven to support wilson , and then to loa the him , by its own weakness .
now , china needs institutionalized mechanisms for enforcing the rule of law – one aspect of western political systems that xi ad mi res – among cpc officials , though the idea that the judiciary could be independent of the party remains far fetched .
china ’ s national bureau of statistics ( n bs ) revealed last week that ten of the 70 large and medium-size chinese cities surveyed had recorded annual price increases of more than 20 % for newly built commercial housing . in the first- tier cities of shanghai and shenzhen , those gains were even higher : above 37 % .
as intellectual property rights become more secure , china ’ s new growth engines can gain substantial steam .
but it also caused serious problems – such as environmental damage , inequality , excessive debts , overcapacity , and corruption – to flourish .
as greenhouse-gas emissions become decou pled from economic growth , the world ’ s chances of successfully mitigating climate change become much higher .
its task now includes eliminating the soes ’ monopoly power , which is hampering market competition .
more precisely , confusion about that policy has been roiling the markets .
yet , in contrast to the last round of renminbi depreciation , investors aren ’ t pan icking .
but even the current regime is becoming difficult to manage .
one reason for the renminbi ’ s continued weakness in international finance is that , despite considerable progress since 2010 , it remains a half- b aked international currency .
so when president xi jinping launched his “ new silk road ” initiative in 2013 , no one should have been surprised by the historical reference .
these new worries are raising alarm bel ls in china .
viewed in this context , the belief that the government ’ s approach to lin yi reflects a new respon siveness to human-rights abuses seems naïve .
tokyo – as libya ’ s national transitional council attempts to establish a functioning government for a newly liberated country , the truth about what went on under col . muammar el-qaddafi ’ s regime is starting to come to light .
treatment is extremely limited where it is available .
such diplomatic realism need not lead to zero-sum outcomes , as the example of european integration demonstrates .
missile tests , pla military exercises and threatening rhetoric have been sufficient deterr ents until now .
perhaps the specul ative- inflow scenario will play out , but in slow motion .
instead of focusing on securing a soft landing today , chinese policymakers should be worrying about the br ick wall that economic growth may hit in the second half of the qu inqu enn ium .
the transformation in china ’ s banking system , coupled with the recent decision to re value china ’ s currency , will require major changes in the conduct of monetary policy .
the same is true of russia , whose oligarchs , as well as the huge state investment fund that finance minister alex i ku dr in has created , also want to invest their oil revenues in the us .
chinese president xi jinping has positioned sci ence-based innovation near the top of the national agenda , with the government ’ s 13th five-year plan prioritiz ing complex projects in emerging fields like brain research , gene science , big data , and medical robotics .
china ’ s “ sky net ” team ( ru mored to be greater than 30,000 ) is the largest cyber police force in the world .
it ’ s not just the increase in the number of fre e ways , bil l boards , and sk ys cr apers that dis orient long-time visitors .
bank interest rates on savings are lower than the inflation rate – and many multi ples lower than the rates promised by the informal sector .
but some foreign manufacturers , seeking to cap rising labor costs , are shifting production from china to cheaper destinations such as vietnam , where average monthly wages for factory workers is $ 50- 60 – half that of china .
china and india should maintain close strategic communications in order to keep bilateral relations on the “ right track . ”
but how was china able to build a modern industrial base within a relatively short period of time from its traditional , pat rim on ial family contracts and archa ic constitutional structures ?
given china ’ s mush ro oming military budget and secre tiveness , that assertiveness has set off alarm bel ls among the other countries bordering the south china sea .
nothing in the history of finance , the evolution of cities , or modern economics provides a clear answer .
they still raise traditional issues of biodiversity loss , destruction of sites of natural beauty and cultural importance , and social justice issues surrounding resettlement .
it is imperative that environmental factors figure in china ’ s macroeconomic planning in a real way .
to change completely the government ’ s distorting behavior , however , requires more drastic political changes .
by the end of this year , china ’ s exports will be 24 % higher than in 2006 , at $ 1.2 trillion , and its trade surplus will have grown by 43 % .
countries in these other regions , for their part , also will benefit from the additional trade .
likewise , the silk road – primarily the over land route , which also passed through the arab world to europe – gave china access to indian astronom y , plants , and her b al medicines , while introducing it to the buddhist and islamic faiths .
for example , zhou indicated that the sr f will adopt at least a 15- year time horizon for investments , rather than the 7- 10- year horizon adopted by many private equity firms , to account for the slower return on infrastructure investment in developing countries .
while there is a ker nel of truth to each of these china- specific concerns , they do not by themselves imply a hard landing .
instead of focusing the bank ’ s attention on helping the poorest countries to improve their infrastructure , he launched a crus ade against corruption .
chinese families have been reluctant to convert much of this newfound income into discretionary spending .
in particular , despite more than three decades of legal reform in china , chen had precious little recourse to fight harassment and house arrest at the hands of the chinese authorities .
credit quotas imposed early this year have left chinese commercial banks with 2-3 % of extra reserves .
china ’ s president hu jintao has just returned home from his first trip to latin america , where he sought new long-term sources of supplies for his country ’ s booming economy .
for the financial supply chain , the key is to address systemic risks and real ign incentives in order to induce investors to support the engines of real economic growth , rather than the creation of asset bubbles .
but it is hardly a one- sided relationship .
a rand study projects that by 2015 , china ’ s military expenditure will be more than six times higher than japan ’ s , and its accumulated military capital stock will be roughly five times higher ( measured at purchasing power parity ) .
jiang y any ong is no ordinary doctor .
but , five decades later , the map has yet to be del ine ated .
in 2015 , a chinese firm took out a 9 9 -year lease on australia ’ s deep- water port of darwin – home to more than 1,000 us marines – for $ 3 88 million .
thanks to china ’ s collusion , the suffering of burma ’ s people continues .
china ’ s economy over the past two years has become much more balanced in its external trade relationships , despite there being no significant exchange-rate adjustments .
as a result , the `` peasant question '' is now threatening social stability and is potentially explosive in a way reminiscent of when mao organized his revolution around peasant dis affection with the rural policies of the nationalist government of chi ang ka i- sh ek .
the world bank and the china development research center ( the cdf ’ s host ) had just released a comprehensive report that addressed many aspects of this critical issue .
in other words , lowering the gdp growth rate to 7.5 % without making china ’ s growth pattern even more irrational is an impossible mission .
meanwhile , the us dollar is strengthening in anticipation of trump ’ s fiscal expansion .
the answer probably lies in new public infrastructure challenges – the kind that the advanced economies are already facing – including issues related to information security and competition .
therefore , the chinese are doing everything possible to strengthen their economic and political position in russia , and to draw russia into their sphere of influence .
all eyes are now on china ’ s attempts to cope with the collapse of a major equity bubble .
indeed , private firms still comprise a minority of china ’ s listed companies , though today fewer than 30 % of shares can not be traded .
more recently , when stock prices began soaring during the first half of 2015 , the economy ’ s slowdown had already begun .
these statistics could , as many inf er , indicate that china ’ s economy is growing at a rate much lower than the 7 % the government claims .
this was china ’ s utilit arian , commerci ally- driven diplomacy at its most transparently hollow .
in aggregate terms , growth of supply determines growth potential , and growth of demand determines the use of that potential .
private fixed- capital investment in the province grew by 19 . 6 % , compared to the 2.8 % economy-wide figure .
beijing – hope and danger col li ded at the recently concluded national people ’ s congress in beijing .
the era of japanese militar istic and imperialist power has long gone , and the world is beating a path to china ’ s door .
from an ideological perspective , an endgame of chaos and revolution looms if the “ principal contradiction ” is not resolved .
a stimulus package of less- than- prudent fixed- asset investment , adopted in response to the 2008 global financial crisis , sustained 9 % gdp growth for two years .
though its economic impact has yet to be felt , the clash over trade that us president donald trump has initiated is likely to be the toughest challenge xi has faced so far , for reasons that extend far beyond the economy .
but china often needs a crisis or an external shock to drive reform .
although china remains far less open to foreign direct investment than most advanced economies , the oecd ’ s composite indicator shows that there has been continuous , albeit sluggish , improvement .
all of this has significant implications for china , which has become the primary target of the trump administration ’ s tariffs , amid accusations that it is responsible for global excess production capacity .
the world economy needs them – and no consumer- facing company can afford to ignore them .
the culprits depend on the topic in question .
how many have the courage to learn from roosevelt ’ s approach ?
lies , dam n lies , and vietnam ’ s trade statistics
add to that the threat posed by north korea , and a destabilizing us strategic retreat from asia remains highly unlikely .
per capita real gdp is now 18 times higher , with some 800 million people having been lifted out of poverty since the start of deng ’ s reforms .
other criteria besides currency- market intervention are used to as certain whether a currency is deliberately undervalued or , in the words of the international monetary fund 's
nonetheless , given the fed ’ s recent history of revising its policy position , markets remain skeptical about the likelihood of a rate increase this year .
for an extended period , japan allowed only strongly regulated financial intermediaries to manage capital flows , effectively discouraging the international use of its currency .
in 2015 , kenya ’ s exports to china totaled $ 99 million , while it imported from china a staggering 60 times that amount .
when chinese foreign minister wang yi exchanged phone calls with united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon on april 6 , he expressed china ’ s rejection of rhetoric and action aimed at destabilizing the northeast asian region .
that was enough to an no y other party bosses .
lest we forget , the outcome for the world would have been far worse if china ’ s ascent had failed .
there are those who argue that these are sensitive and complicated issues beyond most voters ’ understanding , and that more democracy would result in either populism or embarr ass ingly widespread abst entions .
the pione ers were often parents ’ or teachers ’ cooperatives , usually with a special ped agog ical philosophy .
president boris yeltsin canceled his attendance at the last moment ; he was “ in dispos ed . ” in his place , yeltsin sent the new acting prime minister , vladimir putin , whose behavior confirmed the wisdom of the observation that you can take the man out of the kgb , but you can ’ t take the kgb out of the man .
but reliance on realpolitik as the guiding light of foreign policy has a pretty shab by track record .
one major problem with factor y- style livestock production is that it leads to considerable greenhouse-gas emissions – and not just because the dig es tive processes of rum in ant animals produce methane .
they proved resilient in the face of crisis , and many – especially in africa , where annual output rose by about 5 % in 2013 – are enjoying strong growth .
likewise , the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , a proposed mega-regional free-trade deal from which china has so far been excluded – has fueled concern in china regarding us intentions .
why , then , is the united states able to operate with a single currency , despite major differences among its 50 states ?
the more these “ objective ” indicators are used in research assessment and personnel evaluation , the more scientists feel obliged to play the c itation game .
over the last decade , 12 american states have passed legislation to stop municipalities from addressing the public-health crisis of processed foods , and at least 26 states have enacted laws to shield food companies from lawsuits linked to di et- related diseases .
defenders of the megabanks – c iti , jp morgan chase , bank of america , wells f argo , goldman sachs , and morgan stanley – dismiss warren as an av at ar of left-wing populism .
by 2006 , the number of polio cases had been cut dramatically , to well under 3,000 cases per year .
but , because boston ’ s leaders have not accounted for this value , they can not fully measure the cost of leaving these assets under managed .
as a result , cash flows and networking among national and international ngos , foundations , and other external donors are coming under ever stricter scrutiny by governments .
and the list should be rolled out gradually ( and perhaps at random ) , to give the hen chmen time to def ect and the regime to crum ble .
there is no other way to keep bond yields under control and banks functioning , and there is no ir on cl ad guarantee that the reform programs needed to do the job will be approved .
in the united states , the so-called liberal establishment is convinced it was rob bed by an insurgency of “ depl or ables ” weapon ized by vladimir putin ’ s hackers and facebook ’ s sinister inner workings .
with financial-market participants as much in the dark as central banks , things can go badly wrong .
similarly , while charitable donations by billionaires certainly should be welcomed , companies should also be made to pay a reasonable amount of taxes .
first , the energy system is just that : a system of many interconnected parts and technologies .
currently , only 2 % of the world ’ s investment in research and development is allocated to clean energy ; at this rate , solutions to these problems are unlikely to be found anytime soon .
regulatory support has been effective in creating demand and allowing sources of renewable supply to reach scale .
the clearinghouse here eliminates counter party risk for these three , but only by transferring the risk to citi bank , which , instead of losing $ 50 million , ends up losing the full $ 100 million .
people are being upro oted , and vital resources are becoming increasingly scarce , while those suffering the most severe consequences of climate change are also among those who have done the least to cause it .
the health benefits of fighting climate change
for example , “ wet land mitigation banking ” in the united states is one of the older such markets .
but why care about the increase in temperature , if not because of its impact on life on earth , including human life ?
the challenge now is to deliver on these pledges .
there are three main groups .
science magazine recently published research suggesting that universal education , by giving populations the appropriate intellectual tools and skills they need , is the single most efficient mechanism for adapting to climate change and reducing fat alities associated with extreme weather events .
in canada , the world 's first full-scale ccs project , boundary dam , came on stream in october 2014 , proving that the technology is viable and ready to be deployed .
in fact , the public year ns for it .
second , education challenges apathy .
true energy security is possible only in the context of resource , climate , and environmental sustainability .
parties to that decision worried about the potential damage to marine life .
this failure is visible today in the ha unting and in exc usable plight of refugees around the world .
in the us , the trump administration has exemp ted energy companies from methane capture during drilling , while mexico has offered only non- binding pledges .
but the world is even less prepared for these future climate migrants than europe is for the current wave of people fleeing from the middle east and north africa .
add to that the declining costs of alternative energy sources and relentless technological advancement , and the world ’ s carbon- reduction goals do not seem so distant – or costly .
second , uncertainty about the future price of any commodity makes it exceedingly risky for producers to invest in whatever new technologies might help reduce greenhouse-gas emissions .
america may be the most confused of all .
if it takes about the same man power to produce both , wind power is phenomen ally more expensive .
it may seem like a tiny step to go from blaming “ climate-related shocks ” to blaming “ climate change . ”
another common refrain is that solar and wind are ready to out compete fossil fuels .
on the friday after than k s giving , for example , trump ’ s own government published a major report warning that unchecked climate change will impose massive economic and human costs on the united states .
this must be carried out in as public and transparent a fashion as possible .
if the rest of the world caught up to the united states – where meat consumption averages 12 5. 4 kilograms per person annually , compared with a meas ly 3.2 kilograms in india – the environmental consequences would be catastrophic .
so we have to ask the hard question of whether we could do better by focusing on other issues first – helping real people improve their lives and resilience so they can better deal with the world ’ s challenges .
private-sector leaders , too , are starting to look toward natural tools .
and the path forward is clear .
of course , the clinton campaign isn ’ t just being charitable by helping down - ballot candidates .
by contrast , trump says he will leave social security as is , repeal and replace obamacare , and make government spending more efficient and effective ( though here he has not been specific ) .
of course , persistent swings from parity do not last forever .
based on the rate of progress over the last nine years , it will take another 81 years to close the world ’ s economic gender gap and unlock the associated economic benefits .
the global partnership for education has been one of the leading cataly sts in educating girls over the past decade and a half .
to many it is a symbol of success , until they end up in a hospital or treatment center .
soviet audiences watching films with apol iti cal themes nonetheless learned that people in the west did not have to stand in long lines to purchase food , did not live in communal apar tments , and owned their own cars .
bo go ta – just five months ago , colombia ’ s government was as suring its citizens that they were protected from the international crisis .
colombia is the only country in latin america where you can attend semin ars at world-class universities , learn about mush ro oming multinationals , and ch at with suprem ely competent policymakers , all the while knowing that citizens are confronting one another with mac he tes and baz o ok as just a few dozen miles away .
that is progress , however hard earned .
but the only way to implement the deal is to re construct the country ’ s abandoned rural periphery – a highly complex task made all the more difficult by resistance from vested economic interests and the conservative politicians who serve them .
the us has never really wanted to include human rights issues in trade agreements ; at best , and only when forced , us presidents have cons ented to incorporating labor and environmental chap ters .
by the time nixon fired co x , the water gate affair had been building for far longer than the allegations about trump and russia have , so ner ves had been rub bed raw .
recent free-trade agreements under discussion , the trans-pacific partnership and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership , have suffered setbacks as interest groups attempt to bend them to their own aims .
so far , so good .
back in the 1970 ’ s , there was some limited issuance of sdr - denominated liabilities by commercial banks and sdr - denominated bonds by corporations .
but the element of predictability in the path of the commodity- price cycle , like that in the course of a rol ler coast er , does not make its twi sts and turns any easier to stomach .
“ if we are to reach real peace in this world , ” mah at ma gandhi said in 1931 , nearly two decades before the commonwealth was established , “ we shall have to begin with the children . ”
the market prices of most rm bs reb ounded as losses due to homeowners simply abandoning their properties were much lower than had been feared at the height of the crisis .
fourth , because of america ’ s leverage , its adoption of c ft would “ nudge ” reluctant trade surplus countries to accept such a payments system .
consequently , firms that are already established can keep growing with far fewer workers than they would have needed in the past .
but , with enlightened leadership and constructive cooperation , egypt can overcome its current troubles .
but the impact of ultra- loose monetary policy extends far beyond today ’ s wealth and income effects .
the refugee crisis is not the only crisis europe has to face , but it is the most pressing .
either way , they will all be divisive , and they will weaken the us and its president .
the key to sof tening the thor n , if not removing it altogether , may be to establish , at the national and eu levels , a social contract for economic migrants .
back in 18 25 , the bank of england ’ s governor cor n eli us bul ler understood that when the private sector had a sudden pan ic- driven spike in demand for safe and liquid financial assets , it was the bank ’ s responsibility to meet that demand and so keep bankruptcy and depression at bay .
emerging-market countries face an additional problem .
it is no less important to address the causes of economic alienation , which means , for starters , providing better public services for disadvantaged communities , and investing in education , technology , and high- wage , high- skill jobs .
at the first glance there seems to be a huge mental , cultural and political gap dividing turkey ’ s women .
the proposed corporate tax reform is especially significant .
in the past , the biop sy could be shared only physically , which made diagnos ing the exact type of pro state cancer difficult .
after all , 12 people have walked on the surface of the moon , but only three have been to the deepest part of the sea .
the 1930s and 1940s were a time of great social and political change in the region .
they have the capital to invest in effici ency- enhancing approaches and new production systems , and they are making use of increasingly accessible technologies – such as digital tools , advanced robotics , or new materials – to tur bo - charge efficiency .
so it was natural to ask econom ist / advocates of bleeding like harvard ’ s al berto al es ina and kenneth rogoff how they expected their cure to work .
· finally , the micro- level forces that have the potential to drive seg ment- wide transformations should be intern alized at every level of the company .
the growing need for measures to correct global imbalances was met with dis belief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ”
america and the world are focused on whether the bush administration will adopt the iraq study group ’ s recommendations for an exit strategy from iraq .
woodrow wilson , franklin roosevelt , and harry truman developed transformational objectives only in response to external events after they entered office .
in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with the writers and producers themselves .
the virus has now spread to six of the country ’ s 18 provinces .
but a syri an- israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thereby cutting off hezbollah ’ s lines of arms supply while allowing the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed .
the brics are emerging at a time when the future of the international system that arose in the immediate aftermath of world war ii is increasingly being called into question .
this crucial fact will guide discussion at the new cities foundation ’ s second annual summit in june – the theme of which is “ the human city ” – and should be at the heart of sustainable urbanization initiatives .
first , although a once- in- a- century event is as likely to occur at the beginning of the century as at any other time , it is much less likely to occur in the first decade of the century than later .
this is the stuff that former prime minister tony blair and his supporters thought – wrongly , it seems – they had con signed to the du st bin of history .
postwar european social democracy was always a compromise with capitalism .
highly processed food is also good for jobs , including high-end employment in research , advertising , and health care .
first , today ’ s deep economic uncertainty has broadened ordinary people ’ s awareness of the influence that companies have on politics , policy , and their own daily lives .
finally , business leaders must value collaboration – and mean it .
and the women who make up a pre dominant share of people performing house work would continue to be treated as volunteers , rather than as genuine economic contributors .
making all payments to governments transparent would bring further progress , and western governments could encourage this simply by tying this requirement to tax deduc tibility .
instead , the public has been outraged by lur id accusations concerning the indian premier league ( ip l ) – bribes for bad play , owners betting on games , and players seduc ed by star lets and call girls .
improving transparency in financial systems could also help curb corruption , while civil-society groups , journalists , and patients should push for greater accountability from governments and medical providers .
once the generous public benefits in education , health care , and retirement are added to estimates of disposable family income in these countries , the relative position of the us middle class sli ps even further .
the ukrainian state-owned energy giant n af to ga z and its subsidiaries alone are claiming $ 7 billion in damages , while os ch ad bank , priv at bank , and uk r nafta are seeking compensation of $ 1 billion each .
local innovation for local problems
the choice could not be clearer .
another approach estimates the total change in mortality that the war caused ( including deaths due to the war ’ s direct and indirect effects ) by calculating the change in the death rate from the pre- war period .
most seem to believe that the crisis result from bad monetary policy and lax financial-sector regulation ; some even blame the savings accumulated by asian countries , especially china .
the earliest draf ts of the legislation actually encouraged commercial surrog acy , man dating that mothers employed as surrog ates surrender their babies .
true , advanced economies are relatively more stable , which means that the bonds would have a less distinctive risk- management advantage .
fifty years ago , us president john f. kennedy said that we should to go to the moon not because it was easy , but because it was hard – it tested the best in us .
in japan and europe , in particular , large numbers of such zombie firms and banks survived , and they are now blocking would-be competitors able to drive the next upswing in growth .
an increase in the stock price of steel manufacturers suggests an increase in the demand for steel , which induc es entrepreneurs to start more steel plants and investors to provide them with the money .
morality has always been the intellectual coin of these conflicts .
the more tons of steel produced , s labs of concrete poured , and gall ons of crude oil pumped out of the ground the better .
there remain in romania today disadvantaged and neglected groups who are pushed to society ’ s sor did margins .
a few prominent criminal convictions have sent a powerful signal in the fight against insider trading .
bankers don ’ t like it , but they have not yet left for more con gen ial locations .
restructuring greek debt in 2010 would have implied a financial hit for french and german banks ( and the governments that stood behind them ) , but a much smaller loss than that implied by the mush ro oming costs of an enduring crisis .
so far , they have been searching in vain .
likewise , elements of a genetic program protected by a solid co ating are better able to invade a variety of cells , and then to re produce as the cell re produces .
experiments involving gene drive organisms are almost unique in terms of the potential harm that a mis ha p could cause beyond the lab .
donald t sang , chief executive of hong kong ’ s government , has the opportunity to restore integrity and proper governance in one of the most important statutory bodies in the territory by choosing a person solely on the basis of un impe ach able honesty and competence .
in 2008 , such a catastrophic scenario was narrowly avoided , owing to policy intervention , including the coordination effort under the so-called vienna initiative ( in which the european bank for reconstruction and development , among others , was involved ) .
cry , bel o ved burma
take away near- anonymity and no one will want to use it ; keep it and advanced-economy governments will not tolerate it .
underlying this recurrence is the instinc tive feeling that economic calam ities must have monetary causes , and therefore monetary remedies .
the new money was seen as a testament to the importance of working people , until he closed the store in 18 30 .
or you may have ta sted its outstanding cu is ine .
cuban doctors have played an important role in disease control in africa in recent years .
no wonder , then , that while obama used his eight minutes in panama to del ine ate concrete policy initiatives that would bring happiness to the greatest number , castro spent 48 minutes reinv enting the past .
resid ue from forest , agricultural , and agro- industrial activities could be collected and converted .
but , thus far , there is little to suggest that the depreci ations have had much of a sal u tary effect on economic growth , which for the most part has remained sluggish .
currency manipulation is a real problem that causes significant damage .
that is precisely what happened after the global economic crisis .
maybe the rest of the world will step up and fill the void . but with the trump administration now dis engaging from globalization , that seems less and less likely .
but reducing the overall corporate rate would increase after-tax returns on past investments , while limiting accelerated depreciation would lower after-tax returns on new investments .
only then can we create a framework to preserve the cross-border nature of the internet , protect human rights , fight abuse , and sustain a truly global digital economy .
as the stu x net virus that infected iran ’ s nuclear program showed , software attacks can have very real physical effects .
as states and organizations come to understand better the importance of the internet to their economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations of the utility of cyber warfare may change , just as learning over time altered the understanding of the costs of nuclear warfare .
european policymakers have been agon izing over the same dilemma throughout the cyprus crisis .
the eurozone ’ s flaws reflect its conceptual distance from the us , which is the only model of a well-functioning monetary union .
since 2001 , there have been no fewer than 140 new vaccine laun ches in africa , thanks to local leadership and support from my organization , the gavi alliance , and its partners , unicef , the world health organization , the world bank , and the bill and melinda gates foundation .
there may have been a more important consequence .
a country ’ s government , keynesians contend , has the capacity – and responsibility – to solve many , if not all , of its economic problems .
indeed , prime minister wen jiabao has declared that he wants to see more “ scientific development ” in china ’ s approach to its problems , and even called for a temporary halt of the sal ween ( n u ) river dam .
but a less- cash society would be a fairer and safer place .
in most of the advanced world , investment amounts to little more than 15 % of gdp , compared to close to 45 % for china .
the purpose of economic integration is ultimately to boost gdp growth and improve living standards .
but they should also focus on overhauling and accelerating bankruptcy procedures , so that losses can be recognized more quickly and over- indebted households can start af res h , rather than being shack led for years .
europe ’ s foreign service , the european external action service ( e eas ) , is a huge bureaucracy , which must be managed well if it is to be effective .
conversely , the epp performed relatively better in small countries , where the vote cost per seat is much lower .
there has even been a partial rev amping of key global institutions , from the rise of the g-20 to reform of the international monetary fund .
for japan , the lack of us demand for l ng proved fortunate in the aftermath of the disaster at the fukushima da i ichi nuclear-power plant in 2011 .
this can be achieved either by significantly strengthening democratic deliberation and accountability at the eu level , or by increasing the autonomy of the member states to set economic policy .
i was of course familiar with piketty ’ s empirical work on income distribution , carried out jointly with emmanuel sa ez , anth ony at kinson , and others .
but when economic storm clouds gather on the horizon , everyone seeks shelter under their home government ’ s cover .
we categor ize people around us as friends or foes , classi fy their motives as good or bad , and as cr ibe events with complex roots to straightforward causes .
second , financial globalization has been greatly over sold .
but at least he would have the chance to ameliorate the harsh judgment that historians will pass on his leadership .
a chinese sho e manufacturer , for example , pays its ethi opian workers one- tenth what it pays its workers back home .
moreover , it requires that economists make value judgments on distributional effects , which are better left to the electorate itself .
in this context , potential growth may well fall back to the predicted 2.5 % annual rate , even though the economy ’ s capital stock is in good shape .
and when it does , pension funds and insurance companies will be more exposed than ever before to volatility in the equity markets .
lukashen ko ’ s regime has rested on three pillars : a social contract that promises national independence and a guaranteed low income in exchange for tacit consent to dictatorial rule ; a propaganda machine that reinforces the value and necessity of this deal ; and a massive security apparatus to enforce it .
but darwin also knew that , if he needed time to accept his own conclusions , the rest of the world was not ready to face such a materi alist view of humanity .
since then , the global fund has played a key role in reversing the course of these epidemics .
monnet and other european technocrats were not exactly opposed to democracy , but in their zeal to unify europe ’ s diverse nation-states , they often appeared to ignore it .
on the contrary , he must change the conversation to reassure voters that their economic future is bright .
if europeans merely invoke the lofty mantra of “ an ever closer union , ” their institutions will atro ph y .
countless hear tr ending stories of lost hus bands , wives , si bl ings , and children , to say nothing of homes and livelihoods destroyed , provide yet more troubling evidence of how syria ’ s civil war has become a regional conflict ( as the bombing of iran ’ s beirut embassy suggests ) .
we also know that without security , there can be no development .
settling in smo gg y beijing will use up roughly an additional 2-3 micro lives per day , implying a reduction in life expectancy of almost three years .
the recent financial crisis was made far worse by profound institutional failures , such as the high level of leverage that banks were permitted to have .
they may even pay lip service to the risks posed by climate change and inequality .
guaranteeing a level national playing field and a rules-based international order requires effective competition policies and enforcement of fair - trade rules .
according to the ministry of environment of japan , one hour ’ s adjustment in 2008 would have led to savings of an estimated 0. 9 10 million kil ol it ers of crude oil annually .
so the truth is out and freely available .
a tri pling of the exc ise tax would roughly double the price of cigarettes ( as has happened in new york city ) , preventing about three million deaths per year by 2030 .
but the idea that the constitutional crisis is holding everything back is mistaken .
state-sponsored killing diminishes us all , i added , by reducing us to murder ers , just like those we are punishing .
the jury is still out on whether the european security and defense policy has significantly improved the eu ’ s military capabilities and outreach .
the eu ’ s debt arithmetic is uncertain and precarious .
many governments nowadays are accumulating debt in order to buttress public or private consumption .
in this context , the imf and major governments should support venezuela ’ s decision to treat would-be holdouts no better than creditors with which it reaches agreement .
the second step is to build a quantitative model of the uncertainties in such decisions , including the various triggers , consequences , controls , and mitig ants , as well as the different costs , benefits , and risks involved .
this is probably only a pre view of the complexity of the exit from the post-crisis assist ed- growth model that has prevailed in the us , europe , and now japan .
this was true in the 1970s , and it is true today .
i was in per m , a city in the ur als , to take part in a semin ar of the moscow school of political studies .
most high-income countries – the us , most of europe , and japan – are failing to invest adequately or wisely toward future best uses .
over the last decade , confidence in educational institutions and the military has recovered , but trust in wall street and large corporations has continued to fall .
now they claim to have manufactured nuclear weapons for self-defense .
this is not a trivial point .
japan needs to develop well- balanced defense forces with the capacity needed to respond to new threats , such as the rapid build-up of china ’ s navy , especially its submarine forces .
the imf pur portedly does so to save capitalists and bankers , not ordinary people .
the solution is an independent central bank , insulated from politics , operating solely on its mandate to maintain price stability .
for starters , the seemingly endless growth of profits as a share of global gdp must stop .
in the past , met all ic money provided an inconvenient and un satisfactory solution to the question of value .
but they remain committed to pursuing their inflation targets , convinced that even a slight bout of deflation could initiate a downward spiral , with falling demand causing prices to decline further .
the first is to allow agricultural lands to fall into dis use , and then wait for them to revert naturally to forest .
if red d credits are approved in paris , countries and companies could pay peasant farmers in ecuador or elsewhere to protect trees that programs like redd+ claim they otherwise would have ch op ped down – thereby avoiding the need to make difficult structural changes to cut emissions at home .
that shutdown was a harsh reminder that gas is now the kremlin ’ s primary political instrument as it seeks to re-establish its privileged sphere of interest in what it thinks of as russia ’ s “ near- abroad . ”
while china ’ s military capacities are no match for america ’ s , its current military build-up is viewed as posing unacceptable risks nonetheless , because china also is seeking technological means to neg ate america ’ s military advantages .
the next day , de gaulle ’ s face was drawn , but he was resolute and full of energy .
these jan iss aries ( christian boys con scrip ted to serve in ottoman inf an try units ) were either recru ited from europe or abducted from countries under ottoman control .
but de mist ura has made it clear that he aims neither to build a lasting peace with assad nor to establish assad 's departure from power as a precondition for peace .
in this respect , the last two american presidential elections have hardly been models for the world .
one is that modern societies are pluralistic , with many interests v ying to be represented ; there is no general will for a politician to represent .
an important reason for this is that , in order to create a successful market system , the state must respect basic individual rights : the rule of law , private property , and the enforcement of justice .
on both sides of the atlantic , political leaders know what they must do for their countries , but don ’ t know how to get re-elected if they actually do it .
true pluralism means accepting the strength of islamist political forces in the new egypt and other countries in the region .
if , say , 25 % of the 1,000 households in the 30- block broo k side “ fi ber hood ” in kansas city , miss our i , pre- subscr ibe , google will provide all 1,000 with the opportunity to get very cheap , very fast internet service very soon .
there is a danger , however , in over- reacting to the failures of the bush administration ’ s policies .
civil servants can not defend themselves in the same way ; they have to be defended by their ministers .
even their tax- averse sponsors , while appreci ative of the rab ble ’ s efforts to protect their wealth , are now fearful of the impact of these way ward ideas on the investment climate and equity prices .
twenty-first-century legislators seemed to be more democratic , responding to their voters ’ possibly misguided wishes , rather than primarily to powerful financial interests .
as always , paris looked elegant and exu ded confidence and cheer fulness .
many scholars , pundits , and practitioners would agree with alph ab et executive chairman eric schmidt that technological phenomena have their own intrinsic properties , which humans “ don ’ t understand ” and should not “ mess with . ”
mitigating uncertainty , in order to avoid fueling instability , is also essential .
but , as past “ great transformations ” demonstrate , this approach is inadequate , because it negl ects the social underpinnings of market economies .
denuclear izing itself would be “ challenging ” and would violate the “ bedrock truth ” that nuclear weapons serve us military needs .
today , short-run economic policy can not just be left to the central bank alone .
the problem , for scientists and consumers alike , is that the benefits are not the same for everyone .
in fact , it is strikingly reminiscent of the so-called liquidity trap of the 1930s , when central banks were also “ pushing on a string . ”
that is the title of an important new book by new york times reporter david s anger , who argues that beyond being “ used to undermine more than banks , databases , and electrical grids , ” cyber attacks “ can be used to fray the civic thre ads that hold together democracy itself . ”
de valuing life
this argument has some explan atory power , though it says little about the value added by highly paid asset managers and whether they really are prepared to put their money to work simply on the basis of a monetary-policy effect on relative prices , paying no attention to individual companies ’ strategies and performance .
true , falling demand for natural resources in china ( which accounts for nearly half of global demand for base metals ) has had a lot to do with the sharp declines in these prices , which have hit many developing and emerging economies in latin america and africa hard .
i was given an antiretroviral treatment called post- exposure ( pe p ) for a month and had to take time off work because of the drug ’ s side effects .
chinese rebalancing suggests that this may well be the case .
the returns on that investment have been remarkable .
harnessing the power of incentives is another way to accelerate health reforms .
in the developed world , mechanical v enti lat ors provide the respiratory support of bubble cp ap .
when a country suffers from such a data deficit , its public-health policies , budgets , and strategies are decided by political expedi ency or gu ess work .
in our globalized world , a country ’ s optimal industrial structure – in which all industries are consistent with the country ’ s comparative advantages and are competitive in domestic and international markets – is determined by its endow ment structure .
on average , developing countries raise 17 % of their gdp in taxes , compared with 34 % in oecd countries .
the international community ’ s current approach to displacement relies mainly on humanitarian aid , which provides rapid , lifes aving relief while the search for a permanent solution is underway .
the insurance industry has committed to double its green investments , to $ 84 billion , by the end of 2015 .
it provides a set of disease names and num eric codes for as signing and tracking health-care expenditures and services .
the fourth industrial revolution and its attend ant technologies – artificial intelligence ( ai ) , bio engineering , and so forth – offer abundant opportunities for material and social progress .
americans buy more foreign- made refriger ators , cars , clothing , computers – you name it – than anyone else .
had more attention been given to the country ’ s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population might not have chosen violence as an instrument of change .
that approach helped al ip ay to become the world ’ s largest online payment platform .
will developing countries be left behind ?
from 1990 to 2007 , global trade grew twice as fast as global gdp ; since 2010 , gdp growth has outpaced that of trade .
the broadband commission working group on digital health , which is co- chaired by the novartis foundation , is focusing on how technology can improve care for ncds .
in the event , most social medi a- enabled popular uprisings failed for want of effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand .
the de facto export ban on ra re- earth elements – often referred to as “ industrial vit am ins ” – struck a terrible blow to japanese companies , which rely on china for 97 % of their supply .
partn ering with leading domestic sectors to promote innovation is one thing ; doing so through price controls ( as with fuels ) , indiscriminate subsidies , and protectionism is another .
history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by overwhelming power .
the north koreans promptly canceled , as if to ask , what would be the point ?
but if there is one thing that the search for solutions has made clear , it is that there is no silver bullet .
as a result , painful policy dilemmas arise , and they can divide even the closest allies .
fortunately , that , too , is possible .
us president donald trump capitalized on such feelings to win support , and his republican party is now relying on over zeal ous pur ges of “ in active ” voters , stringent voter id laws , and closures of polling places to make it more difficult for minorities to vote .
it is hard to say that one structure worked better than another in every place .
the pre- summer debate about whether we faced a “ new normal ” of slower growth has been resolved : nothing now looks normal .
indeed , both men hope for political survival through a peace agreement : olmert by means of new elections and abbas by a referendum through which he can regain ascend ancy over hamas .
studies have shown that there is a significant positive association between a higher in take of fruits and vegetables and reduced risk of chronic disease .
regulators and bankers have sought a middle ground to boost safety .
during the cold war , the us also employed economic sanctions to destabilize un friendly governments , especially in latin america , though they do not appear to have played more than a minor role , even where regime change eventually occurred .
when par fit does come to the question of “ what matters , ” his answer might seem surprisingly obvious .
all these petty bourgeo is activities would be pl owed over by the equivalent of today ’ s zar a , to y ota , air bus , or walmart .
the reason arises from a component of tumor biology not ordinarily investigated : the cost of resistance to treatment .
this will make it harder , not easier , for it to cut the deficit .
a depreciation of the euro seems to be one likely way that the eurozone will turn the corner .
in the global economy , the most vulnerable are whole countries .
consider the oil for food program , which was designed by member states to provide relief to iraqis hurt by sanctions against saddam ’ s regime .
nor is there any obvious successor to the dollar yet .
for example , recent work with field experiments and randomized controlled trials ( rc ts ) , which has caught on like wild fire among development economists , lies strictly in the tradition of bottom-up development .
us banks operate globally .
if the dollar has already fallen – if nobody expects it to fall much more – then there is no reason to compensate global savers and investors for holding us assets .
the ability to capture , organize , extract insights from , and trans act with data has now become a core compet ency for every industry and across every sector .
it is no coincidence that this russian discourse opposing democracy , immigrants , and homosexuality should find support among the eu ’ s most conservative , extremist , and nationalist parties .
with more than one billion inhabitants , representing 18 % of the world ’ s population , africa is regaining the place it occupied at the beginning of the sixteenth century .
paris – “ day by day , europe is moving further away from turkey , ” eg emen ba ğ ı ş  , turkey ’ s minister for european union affairs , declared last week .
france ’ s diss on ance quar te t
putin used to present himself as the political heir of peter the great .
but the reality is more nuanced .
in europe , inequalities have intensified as a result of rapidly rising unemployment , especially among young people .
but the misuse of military resources can also undercut soft power .
the president-elect could complicate bilateral relations , particularly given that his first year in office will coin cide with the chinese communist party ’ s 19th national congress next fall .
a television com ic named victor tru j illo , but better known as bro zo the cre ep y cl own , became the most influential political commentator in mexico .
inflation is rising only very slowly , even as the economy seems to be running red- hot .
that risk , coupled with trump ’ s increasingly peculiar behavior , has made washington more tense than i ’ ve ever known it to be , and that includes the dark days of water gate .
first , we can work at the state level to try to neutralize any trump policy initiatives that are flawed or in feasible .
then , when pir ates captured him , he took deep offense at the small rans om they accepted for his release .
the internal political strain that this reflects and reinforces highlights just how vulnerable the world order is today .
the world is now collectively writing a new novel .
trump will also be checked by the american political system ’ s separation of powers , relatively independent government agencies such as the fed , and a free and vibrant press .
after all , his current positions are not generating enough support to make victory in november likely ( the widely cited fiv e thir t ye ight website puts his odds at around 20 % ) .
to be sure , trump ’ s budget plans are still too vague – particularly with respect to discretionary spending , social security , and medicare – to arrive at an informed estimate of their actual impact on the federal deficit and national debt .
such arguments make reaching agreement virtually impossible .
cerv antes ’ political par ody can be read in many twentieth-century east european stories .
india ’ s external affairs minister pr an ab mu k her je e recently said , “ india is very concerned about climate change , but we have to see the issue in the perspective of our imperative to remove poverty so that all indians can live a life of dignity . ”
on the other side is the danger that a completed “ development round ” will fail to live up to the high expectations that it has spawned , further eroding the legitimacy of global trade rules over the longer run .
employment and wages rose where the program was introduced , even though average working hours were unchanged .
this is an extremely negative development ­– and one of the central bank ’ s biggest challenges for 2006 .
the abundance of relevant experiences from the newly industrialized countries in asia and elsewhere can show african countries how to galvanize their economies , accelerating the process of wealth creation and poverty reduction on the continent .
the international monetary fund is thus absolutely right in arguing that excessively front-loaded and synchronized fiscal austerity in most advanced economies will dim global growth prospects in 2013 .
but the principle of debt forgiveness clearly has applications for public debt as well , especially in the eurozone .
but even if prices and wages were to fall by 30 % over the next few years ( which would most likely be socially and politically unsustainable ) , the real value of debt would increase sharply , worsening the insolvency of governments and private debtors .
if the japanese do not wake up from their ed o dream , asia might very well become a chinese empire .
c argo drones embody what jim y ong kim , the president of the world bank , calls the “ science of delivery . ”
with improvements to digital networks and real-time data , autonomous cars , trucks , and boats – like the robo at that colleagues and i are proto typ ing in amsterdam – can be made fast and effective enough for all our needs .
am i the world 's best ?
the ultimate goal of pharmac og enomics is to provide the right drug , at the right dose , for the right individual , without any significant side- effects .
after all , global problems demand global solutions .
my first suggestion to barroso , therefore , is to scrap the lisbon agenda .
in fact , one of the most common mis understandings about scientific studies is the critical difference between correlation and caus ation .
the “ c d , ” as it is informally known , has long served as the world ’ s only multilateral forum for negotiating disarmament .
san anton io , texas , made investment in early education a priority .
in july , they will meet in addis ababa , ethiopia , for the conference on financing for development .
they are also unreliable ( we still have no idea what to do when the wind is not blowing ) .
what would happen if countries like vietnam and india dedicated days to remembering china ’ s aggression toward them since 1949 ?
it must ease japan ’ s sense of insecurity in the wake of china ’ s rise , while persuading japan ’ s new leaders to behave prudently and refrain from excessively nationalist behavior .
meanwhile , germany registered about a million asylum-seekers last year alone .
this was a long , difficult process ; but german society , mindful of its historical mis deeds , has become capable of confronting moral and political challenges of the type posed by the influx of refugees today .
some are reluctant bal anc ers .
i knew this would provoke the sympathy of her relatives , and they would scr ap e together their meager resources to ensure a proper fun eral .
the ebola crisis has shown that we need to think about developing our ability to innovate at the most basic level .
some 23 % of local health departments reported that public health preparedness programs were reduced or even eliminated in 2011 , while a further 15 % reported similar cuts in 2012 .
together with the who and non-governmental organizations including mé dec ins s ans fronti è res and the red cross and red c res cent , the institu t pa ste ur is committed to fighting the virus and its causes .
with a highly contagious and lethal virus devastating poor and fragmented societies that distrust their leaders , business as usual is not enough .
but people are still suffering and dying – often owing to a lack of access to credible information or adequate treatment .
these projections have now been reduced to 2.2 % at best .
the bank of japan already holds government securities worth 40 % of gdp , and it is committed to annual purchases worth 16 % of gdp within the framework of prime minister shinzo abe ’ s economic revit alization agenda .
this crisis offers a tremendous opportunity for europe .
by early december , all 28 eu governments had submitted applications – and they are still coming .
worse , by enabling those economies to borrow cheaply , qe permits them to avoid implementing difficult structural reforms .
together , these measures offer a powerful response that addresses the root causes of impaired bank lending , thereby facilitating new credit flows to the real economy .
in the ecb , for example , a debate is underway to determine under which conditions devi ation from fiscal orthodoxy might be stabilizing in the long term .
in the eurozone , however , qe is a questionable response to such calls .
in other circumstances , these would be positive outcomes .
then there is the critics ’ claim that below- target inflation is needed to restore competitiveness .
in this scenario , the demand in sufficiency feeds on itself , pushing down prices , raising real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates , and lowering demand further .
they are spreading the news that , for the first time in history , people can quit smoking without giving up the pleasure they derive from nicotine .
triang ulating brexit
to wait too long is to miss an important opportunity to be involved in developing a strategy that works for businesses , governments , and societies alike .
last year , the oecd warned that the world was aging at an unprecedented rate and that this could help slow global annual economic growth from an average of 3.6 % this decade to about 2.4 % from 2050 to 20 60 .
add a free-trade agreement , or even a customs union with jordan , and you have the ma kings of a middle eastern ben elu x ( the grouping of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg that formed the economic ker nel of what became the original european community ) .
for example , during the great depression , us president her bert hoover signed the 1930 smoot-hawley tariff act , intended to protect american workers and farmers from foreign competition .
the first group includes countries like india and the united states , where economic recovery is broadening , enabling them to overcome financial imbalances .
in other words , gnp is a poor measure of life satisfaction .
the us census and und p reports remind us of the importance of this insight .
the human brain is wi red to structure knowledge around narratives in which we can tell if and how a ( and b and c ) causes x . we tend to be uncomfortable with the notion that an economy ’ s fundamentals do not determine its asset prices , so we look for causal links between the two .
any effort to close economies – much less borders – would fail disastr ously .
likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tab let hardware and software , for example – that has been indigenous to the us .
income growth and a lower household savings rate are essential to the shift in china ’ s growth model , and each presupposes key reforms .
poverty is one of the greatest killers of all , while easily cur able diseases still claim 15 million lives every year – 25 % of all deaths .
more people are gaining access to new , productivity enhancing technologies , more people are engaging in mutually beneficial trade , and fewer people are being born , thus all aying any continued fears of a so-called population bomb .
countries run into trouble when they do not use high-growth periods to strengthen their institutional underpinnings .
the growth conundrum
the difference is that , in general , many developing countries have more restrictive immigration and foreign employment policies than the us does .
turkey might have reached a similar turning point .
i would add to that my objection to the assumption that individual decision-making is always characterized by rational expectations .
and it promised to support the positive convergence of developing and developed countries , thereby reducing both absolute and relative poverty and weakening economic incentives for illegal cross-border migration .
expecting that taxes would have to rise to “ pay for ” the extra spending , households and companies would increase their saving .
if financial markets turn bull ish ( as they often do ) , the exchange rate appreci ates , qu elling nascent inflationary pressures and making it cheaper to import .
but , for now at least , behavioral economists like ak er l of , sh iller , richard thal er , and mat the w rabin seem to be leading the field .
even if this does not trigger a crisis , it sharply narrow s the government ’ s scope for using expansionary fiscal policy to stimulate the economy .
first , countries did not view their sovereign debt as a binding constraint , and instead pursued investment and potential growth .
better transport infrastructure , for example , would not only create jobs , but would also reduce the costs of comm u ting to work .
economics and american national security
indeed , according to king , “ young economists arrive in the financial world with little or no knowledge of how the financial system operates . ”
any answer at this time would be impres sion istic and im precise .
by definition , their welfare is being discounted .
if men who use their services are crimin alized , then so should people who use the services of super market check out employees , call - center workers , and so on .
the only uncertainty is how monetary policy will respond to this “ trump fl ation . ”
central planning is bound to fail , but so are al ge bra ic models of behavior .
but long-term use of such medication can be fatal .
we economists and our theories did make a big difference .
but they agree we may have gone too far into hyper- globalization and paid insufficient attention to the costs for communities .
economists are now awakening to the realization that the most interesting questions they face were always beyond the reach of marshall ’ s toolkit .
similarly , behavioral models that emphasize he ur istic decision-making make us better analysts of environments where such considerations may be important .
the higher the technical capabilities , and the costs , of modern medicine become , the more contested this particular value judgment will be .
after all , people in 1990 , witnessing recent high growth rates , would have expected japanese gdp to grow rapidly in subsequent decades .
he wrote his thesis under tobin ’ s supervision .
within a mobile and open europe , there can be no f encing off of foreign cultures ; contact can not be avoided .
again , the fast growers must be doing something in addition to providing education .
the world of my ni ece ’ s picture books – where every struggle in summar ized in 20 pages and ends with a “ happily ever after ” – will never be reality .
but , of course , this comes at a high cost for the humans who previously filled those roles .
such cooperation has already begun .
but even a modest improvement in odds will deliver outsize results if it means landing two appl es or sam sun gs rather than one – or none .
they should .
the threat by us officials to cut off aid to ecuador , which would amount to a meas ly $ 12 million in 2014 , further ev in ces a cl um sy approach .
thomas piketty ’ s capital in the twenty-first century emphasizes what he sees as a very long-term trend arising from a high return to capital , which causes inherited wealth to accumulate at a faster rate than earned income grows .
for starters , imf staff could face political pressure from countries that did not qualify , particularly if those countries were among the imf ’ s more influential members .
so far , the arab revolts have vindicated the assumption that , given the structure of most arab societies , toppling secular autocracies inevitably means opening the door to islamic democracies .
such propaganda aims to sustain the myth that egypt holds a unique and powerful position in the middle east .
cairo – mass death sentences are usually associated with regimes like those of adolf hitler ’ s nazis or pol pot ’ s khmer rouge .
but mubarak has never enacted the law essential to implementing this article or appointed a vice- president , despite repeated popular demands to do so .
moreover , this almost certainly under estimates the extent of the losses , because it does not exclude inflows of $ 3.5 billion since november of last year from auc tions of us- dollar-denominated treasury bills .
he has denounced and warned israel , recalled egypt ’ s ambassador to tel aviv , and sent his prime minister to gaza .
he was also a witness in the “ g iza officers trial , ” in which 17 policemen were accused of killing and inj uring protesters in january 2011 .
in fact , the 2017 draft budget law already includes urgent measures to fight corruption , tr im the bureaucracy , and reduce tax evasion .
short of a successful attack on assad himself , the chances of a rebel triumph on the ground are slim .
and , though researchers may not have found results supporting any one theory , they have advanced the cause of science by better defining the observ ational criteria any quantum theory of gravity will have to take into account .
while diagnos ing malaria requires only a positive or negative result , an hiv vir al- load test would need to provide a grad ed output indicating the amount of virus detected .
this is where rules that impose term limits on offic e holders , such as the twenty- second amendment of the united states constitution , have their place .
britain ’ s last election also produced a narrow outcome .
investing in electric mobility and infrastructure – including electr ified public transportation , charging stations , and electric car -sharing programs – will help , not hurt , development .
in the same year , president hamid karzai ’ s government upheld a husband ’ s legal right to beat his wife .
the promise to eliminate preventable child deaths by 2030 is our chance to ensure they get it .
in her most high-profile intervention to date , she cas tig ated leading officials at a senate banking committee hearing on february 14 , beginning with a simple question : when was the last time you took a big bank to trial ?
politicians don ’ t understand science , and rarely seek the advice of scientists and engineers in addressing major issues .
with advanced-economy growth having ground to a halt , developing countries ’ lead in per capita growth increased to four percentage points .
and many countries can improve the efficiency of food value chains considerably , such as by mechan izing agriculture .
perhaps most important , they knew that they had to focus on generating employment , particularly in urban areas and modernizing sectors , and on inclusiveness more broadly .
china ’ s total debt is now more than 250 % of gdp .
this is because many pathogens are capable of infec ting a range of hosts , but evolved in places where only some of those hosts live .
this likely means trouble for the firm that borrowed in dollars to build a shopping m all in são paulo or ku ala lum pur , and now must devote a much larger share of its revenues in depreciated real or r ing g it to service its debt .
the depreciation of the south korean won caused samsung products to become more competitive , enabling the company to expand its market share .
by contrast , most of today ’ s emerging markets are de industri alizing prematurely .
you can see where this story is going .
the search for culprits is under way : commodity prices , fracking , us interest rates , el n ino , china , these and others lead the field .
and , finally , any new social contract must maintain a firm commitment to economic openness , european integration , and globalization .
governments need to implement the right strategies and find the political will and resources to succeed .
analysis in bangladesh by economists from duke university and mit ’ s abdu l l ati f jam e el poverty action lab suggests that providing financial incentives to delay marriage could be the most effective strategy .
but there are no right answers to wrong questions .
from 1994 to 2005 , senegal ’ s catch fell from 9 5,000 to 4 5,000 tons , according to government estimates , and the country lost half of its fleet of traditional wo o den pi ro gu es .
lahore – although 2012 saw an accelerating draw down of united states and nato forces ’ in afghanistan , a grim aspect of that decade-long war – reliance on air strikes by un man ned drones – continued unab ated .
peace in colombia will bring real benefits to a world rife with armed conflicts and long ing for a success story .
another 40 % goes to re paying interest on the country ’ s burgeoning international debt , which now exceeds half of kenya ’ s annual gnp – a red flag for credit ratings agencies .
parliamentarians , united nations representatives , and the international energy agency ( iea ) alike agreed that ending dependency on fossil fuels is one of the most urgent steps needed to combat it effectively .
this must be accompanied by increased efforts , from the arctic to the antarctic , to protect key species affected by fishing practices and establish fully protected marine reserves or “ regener ation zones ” to help re stock and restore habit ats .
employment might seem obvious , but most mena host countries currently bar refugees from holding jobs in the formal sector ( jordan is one exception , having issued some 8 7,000 work permits to syrian refugees since 2016 ) .
but so long as the state fram es or seeks to legitimize its policies in religious terms , the violence will not stop .
british politicians , meanwhile , are seeking to renew their navy ’ s aging fleet of tr ident submarines – at an estimated cost of £ 76 billion ( $ 1 21 billion ) .
the syrian people are caught in a blood ba th , with more than 400,000 dead and ten million displaced .
as a result , it could take a while for reck lessness to hit full thro t tle again .
taiwan is an independent state but is officially part of china .
no country has devised a comprehensive solution to the drug problem .
in the best- case scenario , that agreement will supplement the so-called product development partnerships that have already helped tackle many neglected diseases , including tb .
with international help and national efforts , 9 0- 9 0- 90 could be achieved not only in high-income countries but in developing countries as well .
now is the time not for risky short cuts , but for me ticul ous , well- planned , incremental measures that gradually and consistently earn the public ’ s trust .
the vote in the united kingdom in favor of leaving the eu att ested to the loss of elite influence .
· complete the ct b to ’ s verification regime , which all states should support as a powerful deterrent to any would-be nuclear test ers .
in fact , the opposite is true .
often , as with the properties of a gas reserve , for example , information is technically difficult to obtain .
it is not enough to generate energy .
the products of electronic and digital industries will continue to expand their impact , with “ big data , ” the “ internet of things , ” and the “ industrial internet ” becoming increasingly prevalent .
they noted that president bush had sided openly with those who want to make evolutionary theory op tional in schools ’ science curricula .
there is no reason why loans in bo zen ( bol z ano ) should cost twice as much as those in nearby in n s br uck ; in fact , such arbitrary divergences merely undermine competition and cause economic stagnation .
but the st. john ’ s d ome natural-gas field is dominated by co2 , which the rid ge way arizona oil corporation aims to use to enhance oil- recovery projects in the area .
the sdgs can do the same for the complex challenge of achieving sustainable development .
that has helped move money .
we must not let that happen .
end consumers , particularly the poor and vulnerable , would also suffer .
cambridge – how should one understand the disconnect between the new highs reached by global equity indices and the new depths pl umb ed by real interest rates worldwide ?
this month ’ s decision to hold back vaccination in kar achi after health workers there were threatened , though understandable , is nonetheless a cause for serious concern in this respect .
given the enormous economic burden and widespread human suffering caused by tb , a comprehensive effort to tackle the disease is urgently needed .
a swing of less than 1 % of the national vote could decide whether the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) is forced to form a coalition government – turkey ’ s first after 13 years of single- party rule – leaving it unable to fulfill president recep tayyip erdoğan ’ s longstanding desire to strengthen the presidency .
the stability of such a system in turkey – where , despite popular opposition to the coup , hostility to erdoğan is strong – remains to be seen .
during the campaign , the mh p leadership even called for turkey to withdraw its moribund bid for accession to the european union .
putin ’ s turkish del ight
thus , hiro hito might have been seeking to express his view that japan should avoid a war with the us , especially given that the country had been fighting a sav age and unsuccessful war of conquest in china for more than four years .
what started out as an investigation into alleged graft soon became an op posi tion- supported s me ar campaign .
refugees were defined as those unable or unwilling to return to their country because of a well- founded fear of persecution on the grounds of “ race , religion , nationality , membership of a particular social group , or political opinion . ”
oil prices are especially volatile , as the large swings over the last five years remind us .
since 2000 , the us and other countries have squandered trillions of dollars on wars and arms purchases .
the absence of a world government de ters abusive power – however imperfec tly , it forces governments to compete ( even though they often coll ude ) .
there are strict processes and protections in place to ensure that the care goes only to the “ deser ving poor ” ( not their words , but that is the idea ) , rather than to just anyone .
we assembled a diverse set of speakers , including four sp y ware makers , though we pol itely called their products “ ad ware ” on stage ; an official from the us federal trade commission ; several anti- sp y ware vendors ; and a well-known sp y ware researcher .
there are many such “ customer relationship ” services , which rely on data sources that match us er names and email addresses using un specified means .
but , while the timing is uncertain , the trade-offs are pretty clear .
i doubt they were discussing their – and their community ’ s – health .
but can we find and support them at scale ?
moreover , the functioning of emerging-economy financial markets should be improved , with policies aimed at institutional development and improved regulatory capacity .
we have a large foreign population and one of the world ’ s largest consul ar corps .
for one thing , while the initial focus on ethics makes sense , similar explor ations will be needed in a wide variety of disciplines such as economics , psychology , and many more of the so-called humanities .
for example , a search and rescue robot , in fulfilling its duty of saving the most lives possible , would need to understand how to prioritize , based on questions like how many victims might be located in a particular area or how likely they are to survive .
rather than accept its losses , the e pr d f- run government responded with a brutal crackdown , claiming outright victory and accusing the opposition of trying to stage an insurrection .
the anc kept losing electoral ground to rival parties as its leadership failed to manage south africa ’ s multifaceted problems .
unfortunately , respect for human life has taken a back seat to bas er political calculations .
moreover , britain was not the only eu member to fall f oul of the recal cul ation .
the eu must confront the challenges ahead with cohesive , collaborative policies that combine effectiveness with basic human decency .
despite the resistance , the commission decided to pl ow ahead and cen sure germany and france .
and the eu has considerable untapped or under used internal capabilities .
after years of high and long-term structural unemployment , the country implemented a series of labor-market and other reforms beginning in 2003 , turning its economy into one of the top per form ers in the eu .
it is time for countries to abandon the notion that there is some mag ical form of sovereignty that will allow them to escape their responsibilities as eu members without in curr ing serious costs .
it is indisput able that migration deserves the eu ’ s focus .
in the current slump , european countries should be investing in their human capital to spur their economies ’ potential growth .
a decision to leave the eu would fall like a s led ge hammer on the british economy and greatly diminish its international stature .
but the refugee challenge is not a short-term issue .
businesses understand this .
careful thought would need to be given to the composition of the new fiscal body .
reve al ingly , of all the crisis countries , only ireland managed to turn the corner .
this brings us to the v ex ed question of fiscal policy .
it is thus europe ’ s responsibility – and especially germany ’ s , as the current eu president – to act now .
that said , macron ’ s vision of a european army under a central eu- level command will remain aspir ational for the foreseeable future , for the simple reason that countries seldom give up their armies voluntarily .
germany , recognizing that the dublin system is untenable , has now decided to process all asylum applications from syrians , regardless of where they crossed into the eu .
the european central bank ( ecb ) has taken decisive action to break this vicious circle .
it all began with the announcement of the euro ’ s introduction at the 1995 eu summit in madrid , which caused interest rates to tum ble .
the capital- markets union actually began as a slogan , coined by one of eu commission president jean-claude juncker 's ac ol y tes .
the commission must regain political and intellectual leadership and make its choice : either explain why the sgp rules must be followed even now , in the face of deflation , or agree with those who argue that the current environment calls for a fiscal stimulus .
however , if eu countries start competing for a share of the chinese market , the russians could soon be tempted to sell their best arms to the communist regime in beijing .
the european defense agency ’ s capabilities development plan was designed precisely with these requirements in mind .
yet national and international case law recognizes that a non- discriminatory measure in theory can be discriminatory in practice .
it is increasingly urgent that every nation gain the means of feeding itself .
that said , the situation in syria and recent israeli aggression in gaza remain open wounds .
one good example of such a project is the north sea countries ' offshore grid initiative , a proposal that would link offshore wind farms to a new regional grid , and allow countries to balance variable power supplies across borders .
the 2009 conference in copenhagen was an un mitigated disaster , as europe ’ s “ lead by example ” approach failed to attract followers .
and it aims to develop a policy to strengthen the eu , which many citizens want .
yet , given that much of the debt overhang remains and much of the rescue ammunition has been spent , another shock could be devastating .
the euro crisis has transformed an ever- closer union of equal sovereign states , willingly sacrificing a share of their independence for the common good , into an association of creditor and debtor countries , with the debtors struggling to meet the creditors ’ terms .
indeed , it has forgotten what it is .
of course , germany is not the only european country that remains unsettled from the refugee crisis .
overall , populist forces could well secure a majority in the european parliament , though they will not operate as a unified force under a single political banner .
china ’ s subsequent emergence expanded that supply further , culminating with china ’ s entry into the world trade organization in 2001 .
the essential elements of modern european political life – individual rights and duties , and the accountability of government to the governed – are lacking , particularly in the arab middle east .
european security in the trump era
at least the international monetary fund has owned up to these intellectual and policy failures .
of course , there remains the challenge of strengthening institutions so that they can manage this diversity and reconcile it with political effectiveness .
even with an unlikely wall around europe , many would find a way in – and some would terror ize europe for decades to come .
berlin – “ europe will be democrati zed or it will dis integrate ! ”
that is why such criticism has been lou dest in the countries that were hit the hardest by the euro crisis , or that faced austerity , or , more recently , that felt left behind by trade agreements .
there are , however , times when collective action is needed .
plan b in ukraine is surely not more reform , but less of it – and probably the kind of reckless economic populism that latin america has witnessed in recent years , from hugo chávez ’ s venezuela to né st or and cristina kirchner ’ s neo- per onist argentina .
on paper , the eu has clear rules on the matter : under the so-called dublin regulation , the first eu country that asylum seekers enter is responsible for examining their applications .
this is why , having regained their democratic regimes , central and eastern european countries unequivocally voted to join the continent 's integration process .
according to one recent study , market access barriers erected by china have taken a high toll on the growth of eu exports .
no eu program can backstop italy ’ s € 2 trillion ( $ 2.2 trillion ) of public debt ( 1 35 % of gdp ) .
last month , na h les launched the debate within the spd when , seemingly echo ing right-wing rhetoric , she declared that germany “ can not accept all . ”
foremost among these conditions is a shared diagnosis of the eu ’ s problems and a common philosophy .
the war in lebanon has made it abundantly clear how far this dangerous process has already progressed .
on the contrary , it would compel member states ’ governments to look beyond narrow national interest , defend openness and multilateralism , and confront head-on the exclu sion ary political forces that have lately been gaining ground .
public finances should also benefit from the deflation eng endered by lower oil prices .
and prime minister david cameron has painted himself into a corner by demanding eu reforms that even the germans – who are sympathetic to the uk – can not accept .
of course , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’ s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call , and spur europe toward broader integration and growth- oriented policies .
the environmental argument for an ambitious target is not that we need to “ save the earth . ”
the third fault line lies between france and germany .
in europe , the approach is broader .
germany ’ s traditional aversion to hard power will hamper its ability to project its influence – and europe ’ s – globally .
another factor behind the upturn is the meaningful progress that a number of european countries , such as spain , have made on structural reform .
some of these challenges might cause outrage ( that , after all , often is the point ) .
greece ’ s continuing insolvency reflects the deep disagreements within the franco-german axis concerning eurozone re design .
the reality is that a strategy developed today could take a generation to deliver results ( think education reform ) .
meanwhile , average public debt has soared to 87 % of gdp , leaving little space for policy flexibility or innovation .
none of these features of the us economy would develop in europe even if the eurozone evolved into a more explicitly political union .
according to this view , there are no economic advantages of such a policy , because the total amount of labor in the economy is fixed .
this new approach would require , first , a substantial increase in the size of atlan te , the fund set up to recapitalize some of the weaker italian banks , to enable it to play the standard role of asset tri age of a “ bad bank ” for the entire banking sector .
when properly drafted and applied , they ensure financial stability , maintain ( and , if necessary , restore ) confidence in the markets , and facilitate long-term investment , helping citizens meet their future financial needs .
however , to ensure that the european whole is greater than the sum of its parts , and to guarantee fairness to all union members , all eu states must work within the parameters of eu policy , as they have in the case of ukraine .
while a country may benefit from its expatri ates ’ remittances , it is the migrants alone who secure the overall benefits of re locating .
and , as the year unfolded , a new geopolitical tu g of war between the continent ’ s two early- twentieth-century giants , germany and russia , became apparent , while europe ’ s am nes i ac political elite seemed to be f umbling on one front after another .
but time is working against them : two- speed europe is driving member countries further apart .
so how should a “ ref ounding ” ( neu be gr ü n d ung ) of europe – as called for by german chancellor angela merkel in her first parliamentary statement on european policy – be accomplished ?
designing effective strategies for long-term infrastructure investment requires attention to another key area : the environment .
some 1, 800 people have died as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
indeed , on this issue , the us might rapidly find itself isolated from all other global actors .
some brexit defenders could point to the example of the successful us free-trade agreement with canada and mexico , which contains no provision for labor mobility .
pragmatism can indeed be helpful , and the european commission headed by jean-claude juncker is willing to embrace it .
greece 's exit from the eurozone would likely be less disruptive now than it would have been a few years ago .
doing so is cruel and in humane , and it violates the spirit of all refugee , human rights , and immigration laws .
moreover , the eu ’ s aging and demograph ically challenged member states need immigrants .
we have gained personal knowledge of the un spe ak able misery that has inno c ently be fallen 100,000 inhabitants of austria . ”
the patch work of 28 separate asylum systems is expensive and inefficient , and it produces wildly uneven results in terms of the reception , status determination , and integration of new arrivals .
both are hoping for a direct us war with iran .
a similar adjustment within the eurozone , assuming similar productivity performance , would require wages in the troubled peripheral countries to rise more slowly than in germany for a number of years , thus restoring their competitiveness .
following the 2004 elections , the european people ’ s party ( epp ) , which re groups right and center right parties , held 2 88 mps of the parliament ’ s 7 85 seats .
there is still a min us cule chance to avert the debacle if ireland with its “ no ” vote remains isolated within the eu .
belgium , for example , insists on its system of automatic wage index ing .
but , while the economist recently described france as being “ in denial , ” the same could be said of the united kingdom .
president vladimir vor on in later granted the detainees amnesty .
israel was born as a state out of the gravest crisis of the european conscience .
indeed , the devices that the eu is adopting are designed specifically to avoid having to consul t them .
over time , according to this view , europe could build the institutions needed to complement these policies .
mutual accusations reached a level un worthy of the common history and the close personal , cultural and economic ties between both countries .
if this proposal were actually implemented , it would have the effect of turning small recessions into major economic downturns .
on the first day of 2012 , keeping hens in such c ages became illegal , not only in the united kingdom , but in all 27 countries of the european union .
they prefer to live in freedom and in parliamentary democracies .
vienna – the most notable innovations of the past two decades have been financial .
the evolution of the crisis has , however , thrown european banks ’ balance sheets into sharp focus .
there is no movement of the soil yet , and there will not be for some time .
delivery of financial services will be made more difficult and expensive everywhere , even though some countries ’ banks are financed by stable long-term deposits rather than short-term interbank loans , with few toxic assets and local loans that are more than comfortably covered by local deposits .
the success of some in having their claims heard is testimony to the growing power of law as a force for positive change in europe .
and what is true of merkel is still true of europe .
for more advanced goods , the eu value added ( if the intangible part of the production process is in europe ) is quite high .
the prevailing skepticism about immigration is not wholly unfounded .
the value of inherited government debts remains intact , and , aside from a handful of obligations to so-called junior creditors , bank debts also remain un touched .
there is an obvious difference between persons engaged in an armed conflict , as in afghanistan and iraq , and terrorist suspects arrested outside of armed conflict .
black friday in the united states traditionally is the day after than k s giving that signals the start of the holiday season sale .
poverty is on the rise .
just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents , but by jit tery investors , it was the markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to european fiscal and political union .
and it is the real interest rate – not the money rate – that counts for economic growth .
the same is true in other european capitals .
but with germany ’ s lu f tw aff e planning heavy cuts to its procurement of euro- fighters , india may have second thoughts about taking part in the project .
europe ’ s central bankers fear that their political masters will order them to loosen monetary policy , that the structural reforms needed to free up aggregate supply will not be forthcoming , and that the result will be a return to the inflation of the 1970 ’ s .
second , the treaty makes the eu more democratic and brings government closer to europe 's citizens .
moreover , russia is trying to build a relationship of “ asymmetric interdependence ” with the eu .
we need a set of priorities that responds to what people want and expect – jobs , growth , and security .
second , there is a continuing structural imbalance between the way europe looks at america , i.e. , with passion and concern , and the way america looks at europe , i.e. , with mild interest giving way to growing indifference .
but political and social stability have proved to be even more elusive .
but you wouldn ’ t know this from the low level of media interest .
here europe ’ s economic might and soft power have a lot to contribute .
new york – how should europe react to the rise of a hostile russia on its eastern fl an k ?
today , it is more important than ever that the eu , which now includes not only former soviet satellites but countries that were part of the ussr , should create a strategic policy framework .
the decision on kosovo may not imply the prospect of renewed large-scale conflict , but it does raise serious questions for europe ’ s relations with russia and the united states , as well as for stability throughout the balkans .
while this rivalry will have a military component , as evidenced by china ’ s enormous military buildup , it will manifest itself primarily in terms of economic , political , and normative spheres of influence .
it is also obvious that member states can not solve these problems alone , but only through coordinated eu action and common policies .
none of europe ’ s financial problems would look remotely as challenging today if doubts about the eurozone ’ s future had been dis p elled two years ago , and the reputational and financial costs would have been dramatically less than they have been in the past 30 months .
the vast majority of working-age roma , however , lack the requ isite education to compete successfully in the labor market .
jerusalem – “ europe is boring : thank god , for you and for us , ” my interlocu tor told me .
of course , books by economics professors about the great depression hardly a summer holiday make .
a few leaders have invoked the post-world war ii marshall plan as a model for large-scale european development assistance for the region , the aim being to ensure the sustainability of a democratic transformation and generate long-term political and economic benefits for europe .
that solution , while complicated , is a good outcome for the region .
default likely would be accompanied by severe economic contraction – argentina ’ s gdp fell 15 % after it defaulted in 2002 .
ours is a guilt culture ; theirs a shame culture .
obviously , this is also true for the “ color revolutions ” – first in georgia , and now in ukraine , where president viktor yushchenko , the hero of the “ orange revolution ” in 2004 , was voted out in the first round of presidential elections a few weeks ago , having received less than 6 % of the vote .
in france , for example , all current presidential candidates hold out the unrealistic prospect of staying in the currency union but wat ering down the independence of the european central bank and its price stability mandate , increasing “ consultation ” between governments and the ecb , and manipulating the euro to france ’ s advantage .
indeed , fear , insecurity , and nationalism are again raising their heads .
as economies then weakened , the prospects for fiscal consolidation grew dim mer .
the european public has discovered that the 2008-2009 fiscal stimulus programs , which were aimed at forest alling an even greater crisis , generated more debts than jobs .
so what can we do to nudge things forward in a region where america is again engaged but not respected , and where europe is neither ?
equally important , however , is the reduction of economic imbalances and european policy coordination to enable growth .
the maastricht treaty established a monetary union without a political union – a common central bank , but no common treasury .
moreover , europe should take greater responsibility for its defense , both by increasing spending and by pursuing continental cooperation aimed at using resources and capabilities more efficiently .
these so-called targe t 2 balances are often taken as a sign of capital flight : investors in countries at risk of abandoning the euro might be tempted to transfer their funds to germany .
the alternative is inconsistent ( if not arbitrary ) enforcement of the current rules , inducing divis iveness among member states and eventual fragmentation .
in 1975 , new york had to pledge its future tax revenues to its creditors in order to remain solvent .
indeed , the failed greek “ fiscal consolidation and reform program , ” and the way the eu ’ s leaders have cl ung to it despite five years of evidence that the program can not possibly succeed , is sympt omatic of a broader european governance failure , one with deep historical roots .
this kind of problem already worried john maynard keynes at the time of the post-world war ii bretton woods negotiations .
but , even as the us stock market suffered one of its worst weeks since the financial crisis , the eurozone ’ s public-debt market has remained relatively stable , with risk spreads – which have usually increased amid market volatility – scarcely changing , even for the peripheral eurozone countries .
but european leaders seemed to recognize the implications of allowing a country – even small , crisis- stricken greece – to exit the eurozone .
stock markets are rallying . consumer confidence has picked up .
moreover , po demos , a leftist party in the syriza mold , could come to power in spain .
that could more than compensate for the challenges that arise from the end of single- market access .
from 1980 to 1985 , the us dollar appreciated by 50 % against the currencies of japan , west germany , france , and the united kingdom ; america ’ s current-account deficit was approaching 3 % of gdp ; and its top four competitors had massive surpluses and negative gdp growth .
an appropriate response to this dilemma may be a policy of coordinated fiscal expansion .
but this is to be expected in such a diverse monetary union .
with a determined move toward fiscal and banking union , things could be much better . but , in the absence of policies to strengthen stability and sustainability , the chances of an eventual collapse are much greater .
it is the logical equivalent of advising a couple to remain married because divorce is too expensive .
a new approach to eurozone sovereign debt
in fact , even a second round of the ecb ’ s public sector purchase program would not solve europe ’ s asymmetry problem .
the threat that will save europe
but this becomes apparent only when the debt has to be re financed or interest rates increase .
turkey can not confront these challenges alone .
while econom etr ic studies are not available , raw data show an increase in reported income and in the number of firms and official workers .
low- unemployment nations include low- tax britain and the us , but also very high- tax denmark and sweden .
alas , such commonplace language also makes wars harder to avoid , harder to end , and arguably more deadly .
k im ura ’ s theory was simple and elegant , but the classi fication of mutations into the distinct classes – beneficial , neutral , or harmful – seemed too simple to me .
the first evidence that luc y ’ s species might have e at en meat came in 2009 , when researchers exc av ating a site in ethiopia un earth ed two 3. 3 9- mil lion- year-old fossil ized animal bon es scored with mar kings made with a stone bl ade .
when apes do cooperate , it is largely to help relatives .
leverage is increasing , with some $ 57 trillion having piled up worldwide since the global financial crisis began .
true , european growth was dragged down by meager growth in germany , but italy grew marginally less than germany .
it requires persons of great courage to become judges , and strong authorities to enforce their judgments .
even worse , given that obama ’ s effort to enforce a permanent moratorium on new settlement construction in the west bank has failed , is that direct negotiations between the conflicting parties have run ag round .
pakistan must take this view seriously , regardless of bush ’ s motivations .
he did not even receive a trial , but was given a 2 1- month sentence by local officials for the same offense as r in chen – endangering state security by un officially organizing lit ter- collection , tre e- planting , and nature patro ls to stop the hunting of endangered species .
nor would most have anticipated china ’ s increasing provision of global public goods , including its “ one belt , one road ” strategy , which aims to provide the infrastructure needed to knit eurasia into a single vast market .
even when investors accept the intellectual case for much higher bond yields , regulatory im positions on banks and pension funds , together with quantitative easing in japan and europe and other forms of financial repression , will ensure continuing demand for government bonds at prices far above any reasonable estimate of fundamental values .
certainly , the design ation puts them beyond the reach of the russian funding which might get them removed from the registr y .
at the same time , the new digital economy is less capital-intensive than the old br ick -and- mort ar economy .
with annual inflation running at about 2 % , the increase in the real interest rate has pushed the nominal yield on ten-year bonds to 3 % .
that means , first of all , re focusing economic policy on growth , employment , and institutional innovation .
in the united kingdom , the government has just adopted rules requiring that all british overseas territories – notorious havens for dark money – publicly list the real owners of registered companies by the end of 2020 .
in 1990 , we spent almost 13 % of our life un well , and that percentage has not increased .
with the international response to climate change at a critical juncture , the trump administration is putting the us economy on a path to higher co2 emissions by reversing emissions limits for coal-fired power plants , encouraging higher fossil-fuel production , and rolling back support for wind and solar power .
taking aim at the past is not new .
but , for me , the story is far more convincing than the one told during the 1990 ’ s stock-market boom .
with big tobacco out of the picture , and armed with evidence of the real effects of tobacco consumption , health advocates were finally able to compel their governments to act .
on the other hand , because it required significant and expensive short-run cuts in emissions by industrial countries , it threatened to impose large immediate costs on the american , european , and japanese economies .
berkeley – when facebook ’ s founder , mark zuckerberg , and his wife , pris c illa ch an , recently announced their plan to devote some $ 45 billion in facebook shares toward making the world a better place , some critics wrote off the move as a public-relations plo y .
in short , the market is working , slowly , and consumers are educating themselves , slowly .
a new set of rules for diplomacy , military strategy , and arms control is needed to stabilize this emerging nuclear order .
we see this when new technologies arrive on the scene .
considering the apparent progress made by democracy in the region since the 1990 ’ s , this assessment may seem a little harsh .
of course , there is no “ one size fits all ” model for intervention , but that does not justify ev ading our “ responsibility to protect ” – a fine concept promoted by former un secretary-general kofi annan and adopted by all un member states in 2005 .
restoration of order and creation of legitimate authority are preconditions of economic development , and we don ’ t know how this is to be done .
this will most likely involve a leading m ne , which can field a negotiating team that includes world-class lawyers , ge ologists , and financial analysts who understand , for example , the trade-offs between taxes and roy alties and can put them in appropriate language .
as professors interested in the issue of climate change – one from a leading university in china , and one from a leading university in the us – we thought that it would be interesting to see if we could agree on a fair principle for regulating gh g emissions .
an early warning system in the philippines , for instance , mobil izes government agencies to react quickly to crises , while a special fund pays for emergency evac u ations .
so my foundation has a university program – now underway in nine countries – that is designed to take religion out of the sole preserve of div inity schools and start analyzing its role in the world today .
if traditional media outlets allow themselves to be defined by the fa ke- news debate , they , too , will be overwhelmed .
but the distortion of my own words was significant .
( twitter does share data with researchers , but it remains an exception . )
perhaps the most famous such for gery was the protocols of the el ders of z ion .
already , investors are rethinking billions of dollars in financial commitments .
geneva – in an era of divisive social media and partisan “ fake news , ” the notion that “ actions speak louder than words ” is no longer true .
the sad truth is that development aid to africa has decreased from $ 49 per person in 1980 to $ 38 per person in 2005 .
the heady days of conservative economics are over – for now .
this is no minor matter for the hemisphere , for colombia , and for uribe .
even with the risks of climate change , that ’ s a bet i stand by .
over the last 25 years , farmers in more than 20 countries around the world improved food security while maintaining or increasing forest cover .
her z li ya – the sixth fatah congress , held recently in beth leh em , was an important event for the future of the arab-israeli conflict and for the palestinian movement .
the irony here – not lost on the major banks ’ finance directors – is that as fast as banks add capital from rights issues and retained earnings to meet the demands of prudential regulators , the funds are dra ined away by conduct regulators .
ha ider once praised the employment practices of hitler ’ s third re ich .
my question na ire asked : `` do you worry that your ( or your household 's ) ability to earn as much income in future years as you expect might be in danger because of changes in the economy ( someone in china competing for your job , a computer replacing your job , et c. ) ? ''
with productivity growth at least temporarily stuck in low ge ar , and global population in long-term decline , the supply side , not lack of demand , is the real constraint in advanced economies .
therefore , in assessing member states ’ draft budgets , governments and the commission would be foolish to assume that low interest rates on government bonds will be around for the foreseeable future .
the heart of the trouble consists in the fact that neither financial-market participants nor , it seems , the fed itself know the true state of the economy or how best to model it – especially in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis .
bills subjec ting the united states ' central bank to “ aud iting '' by the government accountability office are likely to be passed by both houses of congress .
and , finally , sharp movements in interest rates and exchange rates can cause volatility in other markets , most notably for equities .
most of the key powers to regulate finance have already been deleg ated to the federal reserve – ironically by the dodd-frank legislation itself .
the fed ’ s rate decision in march , and fed chair janet yellen ’ s commentary , was a case in point .
or perhaps its outlook already is quite inter nationalist – as its actions during the financial crisis suggest – and it is only domestic political constraints that prevent this from being acknowledged openly .
the con vol uted logic behind this strategy is quite disturbing – not only for the us , but also for the global economy .
meanwhile , house republicans are preparing their own fed governance reforms , which would be even more radical – and would likely constrain monetary policy un wisely .
by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 can buy today will cost $ 1 22 at the end of the decade .
to be sure , inflation targeting was once essential to limit runaway price growth .
the euro might seem like a strong contender , given the volume of trade among eurozone countries ; but , outside europe , the currency is not used nearly as widely as the dollar .
while this approach has some merit , it is incomplete , as it fails to address the egregious mis pricing of risk brought about by an overly accommodative monetary policy and the historically low interest rates that it generated .
after a very slow initial recovery , real gdp began growing at annual rates of more than 4 % in the second half of 2013 .
the fed may have just signaled that the beginning of this necessary dynamic , perhaps the key infl ec tion point of the inequality trend , is finally here .
capital flight would mater ially add to their plight – in some cases disastr ously so .
the feminist critique , for example , has totally re made elem ent ary- level education , where female decision-makers prevail : the construction of male hierarch ies in the school yard is often re directed nowadays for fear of “ bullying , ” with boys and girls alike expected to “ share ” and “ process ” their emotions .
micro- states can never be made small enough to satisfy their advocates ’ ex al ted standards of cultural integrity .
there have also been calls for sponsors , including mc d onal ds , visa , co ca - col a , ad id as , bud we iser , gazprom , kia , and hy und ai , to place pressure on fifa and qatar to improve working conditions .
in the case of qatar , this meant the right to stage the world cup in an utterly un suitable climate , in stad iums has tily built under terrible conditions by under paid foreign workers with few rights .
one of his most significant contributions to the field of health care – the judic ious use of data – is confir ming the importance of another : investment in hygiene and sanitation .
the good news is that powerful tools are available to avert many of these deaths .
as pope francis said on his recent trip to latin america : “ corruption is the mo th , the g angr ene of a people . ”
since a failed coup attempt in 2016 , turkey ’ s courts have processed some 4 6,000 cases involving people accused of insul ting the president , the nation , or its institutions .
it ’ s time to think differently and align our thinking – and our spending – with what actually works .
leth ality has been increasing .
the strength of an open society lies in its ability to recognize and correct its mistakes .
he makes arguments against the congressional budget office , the department of the treasury , and the federal reserve , all of which had suggested – based on the same information available to stiglitz when he wrote his paper – that implicit guarantees to fannie mae were potentially costly .
pot s dam , paris , zurich – unless the world reduces greenhouse-gas emissions rapidly , humanity is likely to enter an era of unprecedented climate risks .
the eu ’ s action plan for a greener and cleaner economy has spurred an ambitious agenda to advance the transition to a sustainable financial system .
to illustrate , he posted the di agr am below , showing how business confidence collapsed in greece during the late spring of 2015 , and picked up again only after my resignation from the finance ministry .
from their rhetoric and regulatory policies , it would appear that most governments have ended up in the third , f ence- sitting camp .
in managing the 2008 crisis , foreign banks ’ dependence on us- dollar funding constituted a major weakness , and required the provision of large swap lines by the federal reserve .
and financial-sector bailouts will be intolerable in countries with resurgent populist movements and near- insolvent governments .
in the absence of any obvious negative consequences , however , complacency had set in , and the us continued to spend more than it saved .
even if china continues on the latter course , it will fail to achieve its growth targets and will look more fragile over time .
“ it may sound ma ver ick , ” said ben no n d ul u , the bank ’ s governor . “ but we must let innovation run ahead of regulation . ”
tor onto – in a sea of gloomy news , one bright headline appears on the horizon .
though show downs in the us congress over the debt ceiling did not result in a government shutdown this month , us leaders have only k icked the can down the road to the end of the year , when the stakes could well be higher and the stalemate more intractable .
an attack of this kind would most likely be very hard to monitor or stop .
the private sector can become a financi er , shifting trillions of dollars of capital toward developing economies .
in the case of the us and the paris climate agreement , that commitment has been resc in ded outright .
for the same reasons , they may be slow to change in response to new situations .
that in itself may have a depressing effect on the economy , partly offsetting the monetary stimulus .
lag una beach – steadily and indisput ably , the financial services industry – with which we all interact , whether as borrowers , savers , investors , or regulators – has embarked on a multi year transformation .
third , what really matters for financial systems is the extent of equity financing – including how much equity banks are required to have .
that is what has made the model so appealing to debt- burdened southern europeans .
the alternative of relying on a third- party multilateral organization to act as medi ator in such disputes , the report explains , has little support from g-20 countries .
the idea of taxing financial transactions dates back to john maynard keynes in the 1930s and was taken up by yale professor and nobel laureate james tobin ( who , incidentally , was my under graduate professor ) in the 1970s .
local universities would train teachers and villagers on how to maximize the potential of these new technologies .
the reason for the under funding is obvious .
they need about $ 50 billion per year of global help to close the financing gap .
but pl ati tudes not backed by financial support are meaningless .
from immigration to trade liberalization , economic pressures on a beleaguered middle class contradict the core promises of globalization .
armenia frequently sees sk in heads attacking reporters covering opposition rallies and once severely beating a leading opposition politician .
to be sure , central banks technically should do whatever it takes to meet their inflation targets ; but excessive quantitative easing has imposed high costs , and seems to have favored the few at the expense of the many .
in a heavily indebted country like brazil , fiscal consolidation can have an unconventional effect on the exchange rate : to the extent that a smaller deficit assu ages fears that the government will try to inflate away its debt burden , the currency strengthens .
as a result , budget cuts would be strongly contractionary .
to avoid a persistent and destructive recession , the fiscal and structural reforms imposed by the bond vigil antes should be accompanied by other euro-zone policies that restore growth and prevent vicious debt dynamics .
the growing inter- bank money supply fuels demand for government debt , in a never-ending cycle that generates ti des of liquidity over which central banks have little control .
any tax increases or spending cuts will have to be designed exceptionally well – perhaps im possibly so – for leaders to avoid a populist backlash .
similarly , over- fishing of sharks in the caribbean has triggered a rise in oc top us and a drastic drop in sp iny lob sters and s call ops – two major sources of revenue for neighboring coastal communities .
and some will share personal experiences of a terrifying time for the global economy and for them personally ( as policymakers , financial-market participants , and in their everyday lives ) .
it is past time for our elected governments to change the rules of the game .
dr ought- tolerant and pe st- resistant crop varieties , disease- resistant livestock , and high- yield agricultural production systems that use less water and capture nitrogen from the air are but a few examples of the kind of technologies needed .
last year , we were offered literally a million remin ders that the system of refugee protection was failing .
agreement on budgetary priorities should be achieved in the council through qualified majority voting , so that a single country can not hij ack the process .
here is where a floating exchange rate comes in .
new york – nobel laureate am art ya sen famously suggested that fam ines do not occur in democracies , because accountable governments will do everything they can to avoid mass starvation .
austerity ’ s leading champion is , no surprise , germany .
indeed , it is entirely possible that we are capable of eating 300,000 plant species .
this should be a happy picture : the world is now better able to feed itself .
unfortunately , kenya ’ s government listened and did not permit their farmers to grow genetically modified ( gm ) maize , even though it has been approved , s own , harv ested , and e at en by both humans and animals in south africa , argentina , brazil , the united states , and other countries for many years .
the substitution of forests by maize , rape , and other oil seed cultiv ation reduces the stock of biomass and likewise leads to an increase in the concentration of co2 in the atmosphere .
more than two billion of us are over weight , pu ffed up by low- energy su g ars and mass- produced processed foods rich in fat .
if this trend continues , in 2050 , governance systems will be even more poorly equipped to deal with the fundamental problems of perpetual population and consumption growth or wealth inequality .
the feelings inspired by the latter are by far the stronger .
this deterrence logic produces a snow ball effect .
by 2006 ( the peak of the us housing bubble ) , foreign official institutions held about one-third of the stock of us treasuries outstanding , approximately twice the amount held by the fed .
in any case , there will be little room for error .
it is nevertheless comforting that europe ’ s differences on global issues have not had an excessive impact on the eu ’ s internal dynamics .
but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : the proposed $ 6.5 billion sale by the united states to taiwan of 30 ap ac he attack helicop ters and 3 30 patri ot missiles .
with 67 million people today , and a population that will reach 80 million in 20 years and 100 million in 2050 , turkey is bound to become the most populous of all european nations .
indeed , for many nowadays , helping the syrian rebels is too risky , and might even jeopardize the middle east ’ s christian minorities .
when a tor to ise is sitting on a post , you know it didn ’ t get there by itself .
to be sure , one could point the finger at the billions of consumers who drive gasol ine- powered cars and rely on fossil fuels to heat and light their homes .
high-income countries have promised to help low-income countries invest in climate safety , both in terms of low-carbon energy and resilience against climate shocks .
who pays for the transition to renewables ?
here , greece lacks the necessary dynamism : venture capital investment flows are smaller , relative to gdp , in greece than in any other eu country .
the fourth industrial revolution has the potential to empower individuals and communities , as it creates new opportunities for economic , social , and personal development .
likewise , eni ac , the first electronic computer , was developed in secret during world war ii .
when employment and output threaten to decline , the central bank buys up government bonds for immediate cash , thus shor tening the duration of the safe assets that investors hold .
both governments must now become seriously and fully engaged in what must now be a united western effort .
but the assumption that women in bur kin is are all potential terrorists is far fetched .
it is a somewhat radical vision , one that can be fulfilled only if political forces are willing to embrace it , not least in france and germany .
we think that energy and the digital economy are such sectors , and we propose a similar initiative to ensure the full port ability of skills and social benefits .
in light of the fact that during the past millennium the eu ’ s members fought countless wars with each other , and that for forty five years a cold war split the continent into two hostile blocs , today ’ s europe is a success of monumental historical significance .
as a result , 40 % of all transfers go to poor but able- bo died people of working age .
given the french executive ’ s considerable powers , including the authority to dissolve the national assembly , the presidential election , held every five years , is france ’ s most important .
another consequence of the attacks is that international cooperation among security services has strengthened , new technologies have been adopted , and video surveillance has been implemented more widely .
if we are to see a stronger europe emerge from today ’ s challenges , visionary french leadership is needed again .
today ’ s debate over national identity arises from this tension , so it ’ s not surprising that it has become a central issue of the presidential campaign .
true , germany has its share of problems .
until recently , royal – who now is merely the head of one france ’ s 22 regional governments – was best known as the non- married partner of françois hollande , the socialist party leader .
what makes bay rou  potentially so strong is the fact that widespread reservations about the two leading candidates are influencing the calculus of militants and politicians alike .
yet 35 million people still live with the virus .
for the french , as for all europeans , the eu is not a foreign entity , and its decisions are an integral part of domestic policies .
of course , building a circul ar economy would require a fundamental restructuring of global value chains .
even some who defended freedom of expression in those cases may be dis inclined to do so now .
in other words , the task is to turn t sar ist russia into a version of the ka iser ’ s germany .
as the social scientist ze y ne p tu fe k ci has shown , demonstrations and occupations today often include pop -up public libr aries to celebrate an idea of voluntary cooperation based on equality .
and it ’ s not just france ’ s official ethics committee that takes an anti- commodi fication stance .
corbyn proposes a review of social housing , rent control , and regener ation for the people .
we continue to view the press as our def ender against an over- mighty state , despite politicians ’ often- cr av en performance in the face of media pressure .
soon thereafter , the collective against islam ophobia in france and the international league against racism and anti-semitism filed separate legal complaints against ben s ous san , accusing him of inciting racial hatred .
these practical consequences are above and beyond the liber ating effect of allowing the “ marketplace of ideas , ” rather than state authorities , to judge people ’ s expressed views .
when our children ask us to take them to the circ us , we should find out if the circ us uses wild animals .
i posed other hypo the ticals , now directly related to international trade .
yet the overall benefits of a successful doha round would likely be hundreds of times greater than these costs .
specifically , the proliferation of global value chains has enabled powerful multinational firms to control the design , production , and distribution of traded goods and services , even as various segments are outsourced to smaller firms far from final markets .
smart trade requires two key provisions : core labor rights , backed up by tough enforcement , and a development fund targeting infrastructure and education to boost competitiveness .
today , har hom a , built on j ab al abu gh na im with the aim of cutting off beth leh em from jerusalem , is home to 19 ,000 settlers .
blame will be placed on the weather , the bridges , the media , the bitter ness of spur ned leaders , and the unknown quantities represented by the new faces of the president ’ s army of candidates .
and i agree with the philosopher jean-claude mil ner who , in his recent book , rel ire la ré vol ution , takes on the an at ol e france of the go ds are a thir st .
friedman and sch war tz ’ s prescription would have worked only if interest rates and what economists call the “ velocity of money ” – the rate at which money changes hands – were largely independent of one another .
ethnic conflicts in out lying regions will also test xi ’ s political control .
nairobi – what will it cost to save the world ’ s forests and boost the life prospects of its seven billion people ?
research has shown that combining the ancient practice of med itation with modern psycho therapies can accomplish this .
indeed , these countries are already experiencing large relative price increases for food and oil , a food emergency for the poor , and higher rates of inflation induced by commodity price shifts .
pakistan also claims that the northern alliance , part of the anti- taliban resistance in afghanistan , is working with india from within afghanistan ’ s security services .
that fact casts doubt on karl pop per ’ s concept of open society , which is based on the recognition that , while perfect knowledge is un attainable , we can gain a better understanding of reality by engaging in critical thinking .
again , “ secre tar ies and policy makers , ” not “ policy makers and secre tar ies , ” are coming over for film night .
“ neoliberalism ” grew in popularity as a result of its successes in jump - starting economic growth in the us , the united kingdom , and some developing countries in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s .
a survey conducted in the indian city of mumbai revealed that railway comm u ters ’ average daily journey was 22 kilometers , while rapid urbanization there and in much of the developing world is only likely to increase the length of comm utes .
it had , most likely , never been re aliz able .
there was , however , another , category of people : the “ careful and un tainted , ” who abs ented themselves from the world of politics .
this is one reason why putin was one of the few leading heads of state to miss attending pope john paul ’ s fun eral .
although the rise 25 years ago of solidarity , the first independent civic movement in the former soviet empire , had huge political consequences , solidarity was , primarily , neither a political movement nor a labor union .
free capital mobility continues to be the ultimate goal , even if some countries may have to take their time getting there .
it is not financially nim ble ; it is often captured by the regulated ; and when economic times are good , no official wants to spo il the party .
indeed , while macron and zuckerberg are right to be inspired by africa ’ s youth , the entrepreneurial and knowledge revolution that is needed to ensure a prosperous future for the continent can happen only if there is also an education revolution .
on a hot day in new york , locals spraw l out on the grass fields of central park , not on asph al t par king lots or concrete si de wal ks .
but in an economy with a large net- foreign- asset position , there are naturally more creditors than debtors .
in fact , the us could do well as a source of innovation and new products , selling to a larger global market .
finally , plans to respond to the brexit shock by strengthening the eurozone were quickly dit ched , owing to fear that reform would prove too divisive .
the nature of the job had changed : it became less transactional and more focused on customer service .
among the many global problems today , the fight against antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) desperately needs a similar breakthrough commitment .
they can count as allies some of the world ’ s large institutional investors , who seem to agree on the need for a transitional framework of self- regulation .
the question ahead of the g20 summit was therefore clear : would other countries follow the us in reck lessly putting self-interest above the common good ?
pooling infrastructure investments in portfolios or turning development sectors into asset classes could privatize gains and soci alize losses on a massive scale .
these include independent groups like refugees international ( ir ) and mé dec ins s ans fronti è res ( m sf ) .
and the role of regional development banks – including the african , asian , and inter- american development banks , as well as the newly created asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank – has grown .
this failure is perhaps most pronounced within the eurozone , where germany and the netherlands have failed to reduce their surpluses , even as the deficit economies have undergone massive adjustments .
as we continue to fight the scourge of terrorism in our country , we call on all countries not only to mour n the dead in paris , but to reject terrorism in all of its forms .
to be fully empowered , girls need access to safe , quality education that gives them the confidence and skills to succeed .
the funds are sorely needed .
the cost-benefit calculations will likely evolve after the election in november .
shia and other non- sunnis in the path of the mar au ding isis ( islamic state in iraq and syria ) – a group whose ideology and behavior are too extreme even for al qaeda to stomach – have plenty of reason to fear such atrocities .
in the case of indonesia ’ s reaction to former us intelligence contractor edward j. snowden ’ s revelations of australian spying on its first family , a personal apology from prime minister tony ab bot t would have made all the difference .
a large number of social- medi a- savvy young voters have been turning out in the streets demanding a change of government .
the search has involved unprecedented international cooperation , first in the south china sea and then in the indian ocean , from a total of 26 countries .
as i heard bill clinton say privately , shortly after his presidency , that choice should not be “ to try to stay top dog on the global block in perpetu ity , but to create a world in which we are comfortable living when we are no longer top dog on the global block . ”
and there is the desire to restore states ’ integrity and stability in the region .
at the same time , it offers an alternative store of value , and its use as a medium of exchange is steadily growing .
but while progress is possible , it is not inevitable .
for starters , they can strengthen the “ ally effect . ”
for months , the senior counter- extremism researcher at the institute for strategic dialogue had obs essively tracked the profiles of more than 130 western women who had joined the islamic state ( isis ) .
gender inequality begins in the wom b .
america ’ s biggest tech companies are beginning to compete for talent by offering pat er nity leave .
in many countries , the cost of campaigning is becoming prohibitively high for most aspir ants , regardless of gender .
delivered by a network of licensed train ers , the spr ing board women ’ s development programme has already been used by over 2 30,000 women in more than 40 countries .
when women ’ s organizations are involved in these types of decisions , cities become safer for women , which in turn improves their access to social , economic , cultural , and political opportunities .
another plan , championed by a conservation consortium that includes us and australian government agencies , would eradicate invasive , bir d- harming m ice on particular islands by introducing altered m ice that prevent them from producing female offspring .
brazil needs a new growth model , based on four key elements : tighter fiscal policy , looser monetary policy , a reduced role for state-owned banks in credit provision , and measures to lower brazil ’ s astronom ical private lending costs .
after japan ’ s bubble burst , annual gdp growth , which averaged 5.8 % in the four years preceding the bust , plummeted to 0.9 % for the next four years .
those who oppose genetic patents claim that they also deny us constitutional rights , making this the first time a genetic patent has been challenged on human rights grounds .
one study of children in br ist ol showed differences in growth depending on whether their grand fathers had smo ked before the age of 11 .
it puts a premium on agg l omer ation , which is why larger cities tend to thrive , while smaller cities struggle .
the final source of risk , cyberspace , may soon over shadow all the rest , because borders and armies can not limit it .
to be sure , that it ended when it did had a great deal to do with four decades of concerted western effort in every region of the world , the defeat of the soviets in afghanistan , the deep-seated flaws within the soviet system , and the words and deeds of mikhail gorbachev .
success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india .
romania already has a similar program for the majority population , and minister of education rem us pric op ie has pledged to open it up to the roma .
prior to reunification , germany was the main motor of integration ; now , weighed down by reunification ’ s costs , german taxpayers are determined to avoid becoming european debtors ’ deep pocket .
when the euro was introduced , the authorities actually declared member states ’ government bonds to be risk less .
how should they respond ?
fueled by religious rhetoric and a bloody history , the conflict eng enders a degree of passion and ir rationality that is difficult to moderate .
europe must assume this role not only to ensure the future independence of its energy supply , but also to demonstrate that european values of freedom , democracy , and justice between peoples have real force .
without some mechanism to realize that , the eu will lim p from crisis to crisis – probably shedding members along the way .
but now we must address three key challenges : crisis management , the changing global order , and our position within europe .
the role reversal has been remarkable .
this may contradict the straightforward business logic of doing whatever maxim izes profit and shareholder value .
the most important factor behind germany ’ s success is that the structure of its firms improves the quality of their products .
there is still time for the coalition partners to revise their program .
at the moment , it makes more sense to invest the additional savings abroad , because population aging in germany limits the potential for useful investment at home , and other markets are growing faster .
he and his followers never envisaged ord oliber alism as an un chan geable dogma , but rather as a model that could be adapted to new challenges .
germany embraced the peace dividend with a vengeance .
despite controlling the world ’ s largest gas reserves , russia ’ s state-owned monopoly gazprom is not producing enough for an economy growing at 6 % a year .
such a policy package could boost germany ’ s potential growth , while also reducing the current-account surplus .
according to the frankfur ter all g em e ine ze it ung , the combined volume of trade between germany and the v 4 in 2016 was € 2 56 billion ( $ 30 3 billion ) , far out weighing china ( € 170 billion ) and france ( € 16 7 billion ) .
europe ’ s economic struggles are reflected in its political situation , with many european electorates now mired in a sense of hopelessness and sliding toward ideological extremes .
we want to discuss with them , and the heads of the african development bank , the world bank , and the international monetary fund , what the elements of country- specific investment comp acts could be .
contrary to what is assumed in many economic-growth models , demography is not a purely ex ogenous variable .
for refugees ’ sake – and our own – we should not squ ander it .
at the same time , a minority federal government ’ s foreign policy would undoubtedly be weakened , and merkel would find it difficult to play an active part in european politics .
the governments of the eurozone have taken some significant steps in the right direction to resolve the euro crisis but , obviously , they did not go far enough to reassure the markets .
germany wants to attract companies and investment , but it also wants to create as many high- paying jobs as possible .
and under volatile conditions , they are prone to face runs from fickle institutional investors , wary of rolling over their credit lines .
while most other europeans are desperately looking for any opportunity to pull their country out of crisis , germans see little reason to medd le with an ostensibly prosperous status quo .
compare that to risks assumed in the crisis , and it is an excellent deal for germany . ”
it would have meant accepting in 2012 what has been called “ re denomination risk ” – economic new speak for a eurozone breakup .
big investors , particularly asian countries ’ reserve funds , are increasingly nervous .
slow german growth , he maintains , is a sign of natural convergence .
leading german political figures are becoming increasingly suspicious of the european central bank , while also worrying al oud about the us federal reserve ’ s monetary policy .
italy ’ s illness is far more acute than germany ’ s , but both are potentially serious .
and this will not happen unless two other , even more controversial steps are taken .
this anniversary should have provided ample reason for a heated debate about the successes and failures of german reunification and for offering a vision for germany and europe for the next 20 years .
the afd will hold a special party convention early next year to form alize program matic changes and establish a unified position on social issues .
first , however , was the chaos .
the us treasury abandoned currency- market interventions in the 1990s ; and the european central bank has tried to intervene only once , very briefly in 2000 .
nothing short of macro economically significant institutional reforms will stabilize europe . and only a pan-european democratic alliance of citizens can generate the ground swell needed for such reforms to take root .
germany ’ s fourth policy mistake is its apparent withdrawal of support for the ecb .
india certainly has corruption , like almost every other country .
governments and citizens in europe have paid – and are still paying – an astronom ically high price for the reckless lending and investment of the 2000s .
an interconnected world needs cooperation and collective action .
rather than shipping medicines to each country on the basis of estimated needs , donor agencies have set up a complicated purchasing system that has led to years of delay in getting medicines to the villages .
multilateral lenders have long understood the importance of debt relief to poverty reduction .
yet nothing has been done to root out this tool of terror .
the bush administration , predictably , is pushing for new and tougher sanctions , based on an implied warning in the earlier un resolution , and arguing , as it did in the run-up to the invasion in iraq , that the un ’ s credibility is at stake .
reinv enting the inter-korean relationship
each refer r al that was avoided saved patients , on average , 110 gh ana ian c ed is ( $ 25 ) , and the high success rate of closed cases reduced waiting times in clinics .
and the best parallel to gh os n is german chancellor angela merkel .
the g-20 has been a somewhat disappointing mechanism for tackling global issues , and the idea of bringing emerging economic giants into the same forum as the leading industrialized ones has yet to pay off in terms of measurable achievements .
investors ’ belief that the ecb would buy up government debt if bond yields rose too high was enough to restore calm ; indeed , no central-bank intervention in secondary markets has been necessary since then .
but viewing the state and the market in terms of their inherent conflict no longer reflects reality ( if it ever did ) .
there is a path to sustained recovery , but it is narrowing .
in the twenty-first century , however , this narrative is being revised .
cambridge – a trend toward greater authoritarianism seems to be spreading worldwide .
agreement on these so-called output flo ors has so far proved impossible .
in 2014 , guerr ero won the rou x prize for his use of data to improve health , further elev ating awareness of his work .
extreme weather already is becoming more common , as exemplified by record-high temperatures worldwide this year .
meanwhile , the people ’ s bank of china ( pboc ) would face the un enviable task of both maintaining exchange-rate stability and combating deflation , by ensuring that the liquidity needed to support the shift away from manufacturing toward services and consumption is available at reasonable rates .
future generations of women and girls would benefit , and so would the entire economy .
they owe their legitimacy to the political process that created them , rooted in the will of the citizen ry they were established to serve ( and from which they derive their authority ) .
nor can austerity alone suffice , as it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’ s case – that citizens would likely resist them , as the greeks have done .
the cost of damage to commercial and residential buildings worldwide is averaging $ 3 14 billion each year , with the private sector bearing as much as 85 % of that price tag .
precise figures are elusive , but i have no doubt it would have been less than the billions of dollars spent on containment .
and so , in late 2008 , the way forward seemed obvious : recapitalize the banks , guarantee loans , use the government- backed housing lenders fannie mae and freddie mac to resolve underwater mortgages , drop short-term interest rates to zero and use quantitative easing to prevent deflation or dangerously low inflation , and embrace deficit spending .
it has been interesting to watch growth accelerate in the face of shocks such as the uk ’ s brexit referendum and trump ’ s election .
one can envision three possible scenarios for the global economy in the next three years or so .
the result is inadequate global demand ( global investments falling short of global saving at full employment ) and highly volatile short-term capital flows to finance consumption and real estate .
while the us institute for supply management ’ s june purchasing managers ’ index ( pm i ) remains very strong , other comparable surveys around the world are not nearly as robust as they were six months ago .
but over the course of the next year , trump will have the option of appointing five , and possibly six , new members to the fed ’ s seven - member board of governors .
globally , incomes grew bris kly ; inflation ab ated ; and stock markets bo omed .
all told , forecasts projecting global gdp growth of 4 % or more for 2018 seem credible .
in the absence of such an approach , one can foresee an extended period of low and fragile growth , at best , with downside risks stemming from increased leverage in a prolonged low- interest-rate and deflationary environment .
and the advanced economies – particularly europe – have shown little appetite for reforming outdated elements of governance and representation at the international financial institutions , despite major changes in the global economy .
to be sure , all of the large , developed economies are growing more slowly than they did when their economic engines were ro aring .
moreover , recent data indicate that japan may be embarking on a strong , domestically driven economic expansion .
yet the fact that the g pe is be gging for mere cr umb s – a mere $ 1 billion per year – exposes the char ade of western governments ’ commitment to the global education for all agenda .
international peer action networks are most effective when they are cross- cultural ; we have found that connecting disparate groups that are working toward similar goals often produces unexpected solutions that are more robust .
equality for all ?
policymakers must step in and provide leadership .
since a complex network comprises linkages between many sub- networks , individual inefficiencies or weaknesses can have an impact on the viability of the whole .
a banking panic hit the united states in august , though the sources of that panic may have been domestic .
achieving this would require , in the us , the expansion of pro-growth policies , which , as recently announced by donald trump ’ s administration , would include adding an infrastructure plan to deregulation and tax measures .
if economic openness is desirable , it is because such policies are in a country ’ s own self-interest – not because it helps others .
this process started in the us after the housing bust , then spread to europe , and is now ongoing in emerging markets that spent the last decade on a borrowing binge .
india ’ s elimination of active tr ach om a was another milestone , as it marked an important turning point in the global fight against a leading infectious cause of blindness .
what they have in common are committed leaders who have taken proactive steps to ensure progress .
so , with policymakers and pundits ra iling against sustained over sized trade imbalances , we need to recognize that the real problems are rooted in excessive concentrations of debt .
its somewhat arbitrary and politically driven nature makes it at least as harmful to us growth as the regulations trump has so proudly eliminated .
to assess the candidates fairly and effectively , five key criteria should be used .
globalization 4. 0 has only just begun , but we are already vastly under prepared for it .
to see why , imagine a country that introduced computers and communications at a rapid rate in a world in which america did not exist .
indeed , china is clearly in a category of its own , as a source of perceived ( or real ) risk to its regional environment .
in this context , the absence of even a wh iff of protest against financial integration is strange .
balanced policies aimed at reaping the benefits of openness – and ensuring that those benefits are broadly shared – may not be the most politically expedient option today ; but they would do economies and societies a lot of good tomorrow .
traditional labor-market policies and training systems have not been equal to the task of dealing with the large-scale changes caused by the twin forces of globalization and automation .
the challenge ahead has been presented by harvard economist dani rodrik in the form of a tril em ma : when it comes to democracy , national sovereignty , and globalization , we can have any two , but never all three .
both facts and ethics pose problems .
a reversal in the west is possible , perhaps even likely .
there are good reasons why the us adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization .
but the truth is that the west ’ s loss is not china ’ s gain .
in fact , even the “ losers ” benefit from the lower prices of goods and services brought about by globalization and technological innovation .
globalization has also fueled contagion .
“ there is overwhelming evidence , ” they write , “ that less- skilled workers in developing countries “ are generally not better off , at least not relative to workers with higher skill or education levels . ”
nato faced off against the warsaw pact , created by the soviet union and its allies in 195 5 .
the 11 remaining members of the trans-pacific partnership may launch their trade pact without the us .
on both accounts , aggregate demand will decline .
second , marshall argued that particip atory institutions emerge from economic progress , not the other way around – the opposite of today ’ s conventional wisdom .
more than 60 % of the world ’ s obese people live in developing countries , where rapid industrialization and urbanization are boosting incomes and therefore cal ori e in take .
but , while these shifts will bring new benefits to consumers – such as faster delivery and cust om clothing – they will come with costs .
these dynamics and related challenges are not confined to advanced countries .
more useful insights come from game theory , which can help us to determine whether this exchange of tariffs will ultimately amount to strategic posturing that leads to a more “ cooperative game ” ( freer and fairer trade ) , or develop into a wider “ non- cooperative game ” ( an outright trade war ) .
one thing is clear .
that seemingly small difference matters .
we are on track to being the generation that wasted decades bickering over carbon- emission cuts and failed to stop the harmful effects of warming .
twenty kilometers from mo jo , our researcher met des i kor ich o and her eight- mon th- old son , michel .
the biggest emitters of the twenty-first century , including india and china , are unwilling to sign up to tough , costly emission targets .
most important , it dis credits false claims made for personal or political reasons – at least it should .
picking up the child is _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .
and dogs don ’ t gesture with their for ep a ws or use an elaborate gr am m ati cal language when trying to explain things .
first , there was no automatic deflationary pressure following from some alleged peculi arity of the adjustment mechanism .
the spread of bankruptcies triggered a severe credit crunch , which triggered a deep recession and with it a brutal rise in unemployment .
globalization is on its way out .
at the same time , the ecb has gained considerable credibility from its handling of the global credit crisis .
they are threatening to take the northern vote to another party if they lose the p dp ticket .
but it also led to new doubts about the wisdom of reliance on commodity exports .
it has been the same with many of our changes .
the researchers concluded that , “ medicaid expansion helped put more purchasing power into the hands of lay persons and in so doing , expanded the use of n al ox one , thereby saving lives . ”
there are gru esome tal es of young people who have been forced to sell their kid neys and other organs simply to survive .
the deployment of human capital has become an important factor in explaining why some countries remain stuck in a “ middle-income trap ” and why others can not break out of low-income status .
first , compensation schemes must be radically altered through regulation , as banks will not do it themselves for fear of losing talented people to competitors .
washington , dc – the year 2015 was difficult , pun c tu ated by declining growth forecasts , horrific terror attacks , massive refugee flows , and serious political challenges , with populism on the rise in many countries .
but the focus on governance reform has not proved nearly as effective as promised in fostering development .
second , spending reviews , too , should be system atized .
dubai – companies , like people , grow old .
britain ’ s national debt currently stands at 84 % of gdp .
without a sharp increase in wages – mainly statutory minimum wages – populism will continue to thrive , and most western economies will remain saddled with slow growth .
yet few have pa used to consider that the government provided nearly the same amount to tesla to help it develop the tesla s car , a product that is considered an ar che type of silicon valley innovation .
perhaps most important , business associations do their members a dis service by seeking to impose on them a single voice .
indeed , while germany has managed to reduce its gross public debt , from 7 9. 7 % of gdp in 2012 to 71 % last year , debt ratios in france and italy have continued to rise , despite tight fiscal controls ( especially in italy ) .
obama is getting a large part of his agenda .
the many benefits of pursuing a low-carbon development path include not only cleaner air and better energy security , but also the opportunities that arise from decentralized and renewable power .
the country grows its way out of its economic problems .
and bad politics makes for bad economics .
the facts are indisput able .
but they never are .
economists who pretend that this would be anything less than an economic and political catastrophe for greece should look closely at the structure of greek trade , the anemic response of exports to the already huge internal devaluation , and company and household balance sheets .
germany ’ s mistake this past week was to push the greek economy – already in conditions riv aling those of the great depression – into a complete financial collapse .
our partners believe that , given time , this agenda will work .
athens – greece ’ s never-ending public-debt saga has come to sign ify the european union ’ s inept handling of its inevitable eurozone crisis .
it is time to focus on the real imperative : designing and implementing vital structural reforms , at the national and european levels .
greece ’ s companies fall roughly into two categories .
indeed , it is the type of he ed lessness that led us treasury secretary han k paulson to let lehman brothers fail in september 2008 , ostensibly to teach the market a “ lesson . ”
seldom do democratic elections give as clear a message as that in greece .
moreover , greece ’ s largest services export , maritime shipping , has few real links with the rest of the economy , given that companies in the sector pay no taxes and employ few greeks ( the cre ws hail from low-wage countries ) .
but the bottom line is that greece needs to develop its productive capabilities if it wants to grow .
greece , for example , would need the total ecological resources and services of three gre ec es in order to meet its citizens ’ demand on nature for food , fi ber , timber , housing , urban infrastructure , and carbon sequ estr ation .
sh abb ir , 40 , lived with his wife and two young children in a mid size town in pakistan , where he ran a car r ental business .
but , three months ago , the maced onian and greek governments finally reached an agreement to resolve their bilateral disputes .
more importantly , the exit path would restore growth right away , via nominal and real depreciation , avoiding a decade-long depression .
in fact , china already experienced the impact of deleveraging late last year , when the european financial system seemed on the brink of collapse .
doing so might have facilitated the sharing of the burden between debtors and creditors and prevented the emergence of the us- ver su s- them attitude that poisoned the relationship between greece and the institutions of the eurozone .
( much more could be said , if it inspires spanish citizens to take the risky decision of electing a government led by their own anti- austerity party , po demos . )
instead of focusing on structural reforms to liberate the economy ’ s productive forces , it relied on income cuts and tax increases .
washington , dc – opinion polls in the run-up to greece ’ s early general election on january 25 indicate that the left-wing syriza party is likely to win the largest share of votes .
and countries like ireland , portugal , and spain have , through hard and painful work , reduced their vulnerability to contagion from nearby crises .
five years after the first bailout was issued , greece remains in crisis .
the question now is which vision will prevail ?
tsipras ’ s response to these provocations has been clear and consistent : greece should stay in the eurozone , and it needs a fresh financial start to do so .
without the socialization of debt provided by the rescue packages , varoufakis , or whoever led greece ’ s finance ministry , would have had to declare insolvency and then confront private creditors from a variety of countries .
greece ’ s fi re- breathing new government , it is generally assumed , will have little choice but to stick to its predecessor ’ s program of structural reform , perhaps in return for a modest relaxation of fiscal austerity .
greece is both small and in a uniquely desperate position .
what is necessary now is states man- like leadership – and even more so states woman -like leadership .
deep down , the crisis is yet another manifestation of what i call “ the political tril em ma of the world economy ” : economic globalization , political democracy , and the nation-state are mutually ir reconc il able .
meanwhile , the development bank ’ s dividends would be channeled into the long- suffering pension funds , which were abruptly de- capitalized in 2012 ( owing to the “ haircut ” on their holdings of greek government bonds ) .
asians watch with sympathy the fall from grace of the birth place of western civilization .
as the journalist and author michael le w is emphasized in his best seller fl ash boys , the risks created by high- frequency trading on the financial returns of our lum bering , twentieth-century pension funds are far-reaching .
green money
finally , the reduction of global imbalances implies that the current-account deficits of profligate economies ( the us and other anglo-saxon countries ) will narrow the current-account surpluses of over- saving countries ( china and other emerging markets , germany , and japan ) .
confidence in the us dollar relies on the fact that there is no difference between a dollar held in a bank in boston and one held in san francisco .
for one thing , it would be impossible to do so under the auspices of the united nations , owing to russian and chinese obstruc tion ism in the security council .
the federal funds rate is currently at only 2. 25 % .
so , in assessing the possibility of weak long-term growth , it is worth looking at where exactly the gordon and summers hypo thes es are linked , and what would inval id ate them .
caus ality in economics may be elusive , but in this case it is clear .
but , for more and more countries , thin ley ’ s reflection on the ultimate sources of well-being is not only timely , but urgent .
those were the days when global peace was sustained by a concept known su itably enough by the ac ron y m mad – mutually assured destruction .
but the next leader of the fed should be committed to ensuring that america ’ s unemployment rate falls below its current unacceptably high level ; an unemployment rate of 7 % – or even 6 % – should not be viewed as inevitable .
in saudi arabia , foreign nationals account for roughly one-third of the population .
one must doubt whether it contributed anything to making democracy more acceptable after wwii .
they enable many familiar activities : inst ant an eous communications , social media , financial transactions , and logistics management .
with europe ’ s crisis- stricken governments increasingly turning to unelected technocrats , one can almost see citizens no dding in agreement .
on current indications , the amount americans will give to relief efforts in haiti could surpass the $ 1.9 billion they gave to assist victims of the 2004 asian tsunami , which until now has stood as a record for donations to a disaster outside the united states .
but clinton should be reminded that every free industrial zone that was built along the israeli-palestinian border eventually fell victim to political instability .
last may , he signed an initial reconciliation agreement with fatah in cairo , which committed hamas to a palestinian unity government , called for a c ess ation of violence , and accepted the notion of a palestinian state on the 1967 borders .
now , with questions about president hosni mubarak ’ s successor in the air , egypt has put aside these talks .
this leaves further unilateral israeli moves – such as a partial set of withdraw als from selected areas in the west bank – as the only feasible option .
relative to germany , italy became a whopping 42 % more expensive .
to be sure , in 2011 a so-called
yet his fru gal lifestyle shows that he does not particularly enjoy spending large amounts of money .
the republican party is in the throes of a deep internal sch ism that could end with the victory of its populist wing , led by trump ’ s nationalist , anti-eu s v eng ali , stephen bannon .
to use imf gold for further debt relief in the face of increased risk threatens the fund ’ s financial integrity and contradicts the recent decision to increase the imf ’ s precautionary balances .
it may be in correct to call turkey ’ s behavior “ neo- ottoman , ” but some neighboring countries , after expecting a medi ator and facilit ator , may now feel faced by a possible bully .
the united states is the world ’ s largest economy , with a gdp of roughly $ 16. 7 trillion .
but the revival of confidence in the financial sector has caused the pound to rebound sharply ( by 18 % since the end of 2008 ) , eroding the uk ’ s competitiveness gain .
princeton – bal z ac ’ s great novel lost illusions ends with an ex position of the difference between “ official history , ” which is “ all lies , ” and “ secret history ” – that is , the real story .
for starters , their imperial legacies constrain them to behave like nineteenth-century great powers , not as part of the globalized and inter- connected world of the twenty-first century .
indeed , it may be impossible to europe an ize social democracy under current conditions .
in short , the political economy of keynesian stimulus projects can be highly problematic , because ordinary citizens often have no access to their benefits .
the magazine time had even put the b espec tac led wi z ard on its cover .
meanwhile , rich countries ’ agricultural subsidies and tariffs have undoubtedly undermined food production in developing countries .
one day you get bankruptcy , another day loans with few strings attached .
has financial innovation been discredited ?
if the deficits are moneti zed by central banks , inflation will follow the short-term deflationary pressures ; if they are financed by debt , the long-term solvency of some governments may be at stake unless medium-term fiscal discipline is restored .
moreover , despite what many believe , crude oil is far from being a hom ogenous product .
during my presidential campaign , i committed myself to doing everything in my power to fast- track a resolution to the standoff over our nuclear- energy program .
we now know that it atro ph ies in a number of psychiatric disorders .
with populations worldwide aging fast , the scale of such challenges is growing exponentially , affecting not only health-care systems , but also economies , government policies , and , of course , families .
even when gener ic- brand essential medicines are available , they often are unaffordable for low-income patients in countries with scant state subsidies and no risk- pooling insurance mechanisms .
med rewards is not alone . a variety of other companies are taking different approaches , but all of them have the same goal – to motivate people to engage in healthy behavior .
there is now a whole industry of such products , as well as health foods classified as “ natural , ” “ organic , ” and “ functional . ”
fortunately , world leaders seem to have taken that lesson to heart : the sustainable development goals – the ambitious post-2015 development agenda adopted at the un last september – are premis ed on the idea of local ownership .
according to the world obesity federation , obes ity- related ncds could cost the world as much as $ 1.2 trillion per year by 2025 .
just as people long ago moved from institutional , main frame computers to personal computers , they are starting to make the same move from institutional to individual tools with their health – not for treating serious diseases such as cancer , to be sure , but for everyday monitoring and prevention .
the arctic council has warned that more shipping traffic will increase the risk of catastrophic oil sp ills .
but much more work must be done to ensure a stable long-term recovery .
another alternative would be to use the electoral register , a public database that the ecb could use independently of governments .
moreover , qe has undesirable distributional consequences , because it gives money to those who have already have it , and whose current spending is little influenced by having more .
moreover , prices of food products have started to increase .
recall that the rwand an genocide was preceded by a similar lack of enthusiasm for financing the un mission there .
yet , with courage and commitment , they managed to produce a pragmatic compromise based on a set of key principles – a compromise that opened the way for far-reaching cooperation and , indeed , the emergence of today ’ s interconnected and interdependent world .
given the benefits , one might expect such developments to be universally lauded and encouraged .
un provoked attention from regulators inevitably stigm ati zes any product or technology .
but at what price ?
indeed , many of the alternatives would be more toxic or require more till age , resulting in damaging soil erosion , increased co2 emissions , decreased crop yields , greater production costs , and higher consumer prices .
after all , the market is essentially just a form of self- organization whereby everyone tries to earn a living by doing things that others find valuable .
and , because the loans were rarely issued as securities in international capital markets , it is not included in , say , world bank databases , either .
historically , the real interest rate on ten-year treasuries has been above 2 % ; thus , today ’ s rate is about two percentage points below its historical average .
loyalty , rather than merit , drove key appointments , making policy management even more difficult .
last , but not least , the us productivity boom is deceler ating .
moving l omb ard street to the bou lev ard ha us s mann could be more effective than any of the other attempts we english have made to harm our ne arest neighbors over the centuries .
conversely , a system based on population would have gone too far in favoring the big ones .
what strikes me the most is that she sees , even then , the begin nings of the tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists to out do one another in fundamentalist pur ity .
sanders appears authentic ; clinton seems program med .
the us should insist on a substantive agenda as a precondition for any obama visit .
the thir ty- year interv al between historic bridge failures was first highlighted by the work of paul sibly , who wrote a thesis on the subject , and his university of london advis or , a. c. wal ker .
as a result , the fed responds aggressively when it perce ives even a limited risk of another depression .
in the united states , they underpinned discrimination against immigrants and sustained the jim c row era of legal racial segregation .
maybe , if not there and if not then , domin oes are more relevant to foreign and security policy today .
but , no matter what becomes of this latest vacc ine- related discovery , the world will still have a long way to go before hiv is eradicated .
when asked what it was like to be interviewed by the o van go gh , european commissioner fr its bol k este in said , `` he was imper tin ent , and that is a good thing ; he was offensive , and that is not . ''
this has driven down demand and prices , causing the disparities among eurozone member countries ’ economic performance to widen .
upro oted from their homes and livelihoods , and traum atized by the violence or sudden disaster that forced them to flee , the displaced are often thrust into an extremely precarious future with few resources .
in such conditions , many young people feel they have little choice but to join violent groups , if only to provide some income and a level of protection .
whenever i speak at finance and economics conferences around the world , i find that a great conversation star ter with the sp ous es of the middle-aged business people who attend is to inqu ire about their vacation home .
but people throughout the world tend to reject offers below $ 30 .
the promise of china ’ s pearl river delta
the second issue concerns the composition and the voting rules of the hand picked 1, 200- member election committee that will choose the chief executive in the future .
before suggesting a way forward for hong kong ’ s ham - f isted authorities , three things need to be made clear .
it noted that people increasingly adopted informal means of expressing un happiness with hong kong 's government , because they did not think that formal channels were sufficient .
but , given that candidates are to be carefully ve tted by an unelected committee of pro- chinese appointees , citizens would have no meaningful choice at all .
under tun g ’ s leadership , mass protests became a frequent sight in hong kong .
in 2016 , we should hope for the tpp ’ s defeat and the beginning of a new era of trade agreements that don ’ t reward the powerful and punish the weak .
for example , a drug broadly approved for “ ar thr itis ” – inflam m ation of join ts that may be due to dozens of different disease processes – can be more widely marke ted than one approved to treat only the ar thr itis that accompanies p sor i asis or g out .
then anything may happen .
at the same time , the afd has lost political ground on which to criticize see hofer and the csu .
and yet journalists – not very experienced reporters , to be sure – ask me who is likely to get the “ pl um job ” of fed chair next year .
first , as the skeptics warned , when h ord es of pundits are jo st ling for the lim el ight , many are tempted to claim that they know more than they do .
the liberalization of trade and investment implied by the single european act was greatly inspired by a british dereg ul atory vision .
given all the accusations that the us faces for its involvement in the region over the decades , one would think that america would be invited to stay home .
the press headlines accompanying the release of the latest g f ci focused on the change at the top of the league : new york leap fro gged ahead of london , while hong kong and singapore held on in third and fourth place , respectively .
now the commission has followed up by publishing its own assessment .
investors need to be offered heavy dis counts to persuade them to part with their money .
“ being at the heart of the global financial system , ” he said , “ broad ens the investment opportunities for the institutions that look after british savings , and reinforces the ability of uk manufacturing and creative industries to compete globally . ”
growth plau sibly drove financial development as much as , or more than , institutional development did .
if most community members work for just a few employers and obtain health care from just a few providers , the effort of cor r alling the players will be easier .
for one thing , the ecb is an international institution , bearing responsibility for monetary policy for the eurozone as a whole rather than italy alone .
but if political leaders and policymakers want lower oil prices , they should be promoting policies that strengthen the dollar .
the outcome was an endorsement of the lessons of economic liberalism .
we viewed our job as describing how market economies work , when they fail , and how well-designed policies can enhance efficiency .
but the sheer scale of the disaster relief “ industry ” – plus the longer-term development efforts of ngos – is raising serious concerns about how to measure their performance .
today , this requires opposition to any mu bar ak - style repression of the muslim brotherhood .
the system erdoğan has instituted leaves no place for competent politicians or bureaucrats at the helm of the economy .
by helping french businesses recover lost margins , we can empower them to invest and create employment .
some 40 % of the population still lives below a poverty line drawn just this side of the fun eral py re .
most importantly , the carry trade generates global financial fragility by creating fundamental – and dangerous – mismatches .
how military should japan be ?
vast tr acts of prime real estate in cities , sold to officers for a pit t ance , have turned into meg a housing developments .
but it should do this fully only once the economy has completely recovered .
this highlights the real deception by both sides .
continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , conf ound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth .
putin beha ves similarly , using the press to emphasize , say , how russia ’ s annexation of crimea has reminded the country ’ s western opponents of its “ greatness . ”
indeed , as developing countries move toward middle-income status , financial inclusion is a key component of continued progress .
but relying on wealth effects targeted at the rich to achieve that goal remains one of the great dis connects in the art and practice of economic policy .
the changes in technology will increase the economy ’ s output and raise the potential standard of living of the population .
with its catch-up glory days in the past , china should aim for higher incomes through steady growth and lower volatility .
nevertheless , regional discrep ancies remain massive : cows in the netherlands can produce roughly 9,000 lit ers of milk annually , while ze bu cattle in the trop ics produce only about 300 lit ers .
nevertheless , the ideologues in the administration were determined to pursue it because , in the words of paul wolfowitz , `` it was do able . ''
but who will then be able – and willing – to run deficits ?
but it is not necessary to revert to that policy to make a difference .
lack of coverage in employ er- based plans and insufficient personal savings leave more than one-third of all households ( and more than 75 % of low-income households ) entirely dependent on social security for their retirement income .
let me first set the scene by making three observations on where we are today .
according to the world bank , one billion people in 14 6 low- and middle-income countries currently receive some form of social protection .
unfortunately , what he is doing is not enough .
while the forces fueling this trend – in particular , globalization and progress in digital technology – will be difficult to counter fully , their adverse effects can be mitigated through redistribution via the tax and social-security systems .
elsewhere in the world , things are not so easy .
violent revolutions can reach peaceful resolutions , but such an outcome is less likely where deep , unresolved sectarian grievances are in play , as they are in the middle east .
although social security was created in the 1930s , there was widespread fear in the 1960s and 1970s that the program would not survive politically because of conservative opposition .
we at the imf will do our part by enhancing our analysis of the economic effects of gender inequality and working with our member countries to enable women to contribute fully to global economic growth and prosperity .
after all , a clear message by the european council would have a much stronger effect if it expressed not only the wishes of heads of governments , but also broad acceptance at all levels of society .
next year will mark the 10 0th anniversary of the outbreak of that war .
on the la os - vietnam border , a sub- regional cross-border transport agreement has cut c argo transit times from four hours to just over one hour .
last november , when hostilities erupted in gaza , egyptian president mohamed morsi medi ated a swift resolution , even providing a guarantee for the cease-fire with gaza ’ s ruling hamas .
but what works for germany can not work for the rest of europe : no country can run a chronic trade surplus without others running deficits .
for that , brazilians must take a hard look at the attitudes and expectations that have placed them in this situation .
for example , the real-estate lobby in the us obviously has no desire to see government support for housing diminish , despite the fact that the us probably has far more housing stock than it can afford .
fifteen thousand ukrainians were taught concrete skills in avoiding emotional manipulation , ver ifying sources and credentials , detec ting paid content and hate speech , and deb un king fake videos and photos .
no institutional solution is purely neutral in its effects on relative incomes – and it is relative income and wealth around which political debate typically revol ves .
more important , it holds dangerous policy implications if it encourages countries like russia to engage in adventur ous policies , china to be more assertive with its neighbors , or the us to over react out of fear .
beyond politics , there are vast differences among the economies of the new members , not only in terms of wealth , but also in their structures .
what tipped them from middle-class lifestyles to incomes just above the poverty line were likely to have been one or all of three factors .
both the oecd and the goldman sachs study identify rules that discourage women from working .
first , the share of people living in poverty plummeted to approximately 28 % in 2012 , from a peak of 62 % in 2003 ( though it was 46 % three years earlier , at the beginning of chávez ’ s first term ) .
today ’ s challenge is to isolate the diverse sources of change .
while life expectancy can be calculated based on birth and death records , indices that measure quality of life , like the who ’ s dis abil ity- adjusted life year estimates , require considerable amounts of information on a wide range of illnesses and disabilities in every country .
we live in complex societies organized around lingu istically co ded rules , mor als , and social institutions , with a massive reliance on technology .
these structural vulnerabilities are known as de hydr ons .
it is , of course , unlikely that d ental health will ever secure a place on the united nations development agenda .
conflict resolution , if it is to be successful , requires channeling the energy generated by conflict toward constructive and non violent alternatives .
china is a rising power that is highly intertwined with the international economy , including the us .
as world leaders race to address the current global economic crisis , it may seem unrealistic to be calling for large and long-term investments of this kind .
in short , the draft constitution is an attempt to square a circle . the sunni resistance – a guer illa and terrorist war that was well prepared in the last years of saddam ’ s rule – will continue to try to sub vert any semblance of order representing the current majority shia- kurdish coalition .
in hungary , the proposed tax would have been particularly onerous , because it would raise the cost of mobile data by 5- 15 % and have an even bigger impact on fixed broadband sub scrip tions .
it insul ts the intelligence of the hungarian people to suggest otherwise .
at cer n , two independent teams of physicists recently announced that their data were consistent with detection of a higgs particle , though there remained a 1- in- 2,000 chance that the signal came from mundane , non- higgs processes .
the chinese government is hast ening its shopping spree in america these days , pushing up the renminbi ’ s exchange rate slowly but steadily .
i did not argue that wh aling should stop because whales are endangered . i knew that many expert ec ologists and marine bi ologists would make that claim .
the amendment adopted ten years ago would obli ge countries to protect nuclear facilities and any nuclear material used , stored , or trans ported domestically .
previously , that threshold was a direct russian military invasion ; now , as merkel explained , if russia disrup ts ukraine ’ s may 25 elections , “ further sanctions will be unavoidable . ”
the problem with strategic bombing is that it seems never to have worked , with the possible exception of rot ter dam ( but by then holland had already been defeated ) .
after all , both russia and china are surrounded by countries allied to the us .
most japanese can live with that .
unlike in germany , japan had no hitler or nazi party on which to blame their wartime atrocities .
but they are far from the mainstream .
a few compromises were made .
this image would soon be battered badly by the murders of kennedy , his brother bo b by , and martin luther king , jr. , and by the war in vietnam that kennedy had initiated .
they are like national flags : insult them , and you insult the “ nation . ”
ver hof stad t speaks of his love of french w ine , german oper a , and english and italian literature .
in the wild west of ic os , most cryptocurrencies are issued in breach of these laws and regulations , under the pretense that they are not securities at all .
someone who believes that capitalism is unjust shares something with others who hold the same belief .
for pl ato , knowledge is “ justified true belief . ”
pension , investment , and hedge funds have taken the lead in this revolution .
when politics comes first , there is a temptation to bend the law toward one ’ s own ends .
and netanyahu has been israel ’ s acting communications minister since late 2014 .
clearly , democratization in russia required efforts aimed at ensuring shared prosperity , not policies that led to the creation of an oligarchy .
the 197 9- 1981 oil crisis is said to reflect the cu to ff in oil due to the iranian revolution and the iran- iraq war .
thereafter , each would be credited with extra ban c ors in proportion to its net exports .
the result would be an agenda that responded better to the continued anxiety that a growing number of policymakers – and populations – are feeling .
it also risks exposing the imf to even heavier political pressure , accent u ating legitimate questions about the uni formity of its treatment of member countries .
the ie o report also doesn ’ t assess imf programs ’ effectiveness .
the european central bank is well aware of the risk from weaker banks ; but , with the eurozone economy heavily reliant on bank credit , addressing it is not straightforward .
there are those at the us federal reserve who wish it were otherwise , recognizing that without the support of the f so c , which is chaired by the treasury secretary , they will find it hard , if not impossible , to di g into the macroprudential toolkit .
imf go home
greece should have been told that it could reap the benefits of devaluation , while the international community would act to minimize the attend ant costs .
others will say that the failure to recognize the full effects of im f- endorsed austerity on greek citizens proves that she is out of touch with ordinary people .
he who has the largest wal let speaks with the lou dest voice .
now , the opposite seems to be happening .
a lower inflow and a higher retirement age would be a much better solution to population aging .
local organizations and gateway cities like new york , london , and berlin are already pioneering effective approaches to immigrant integration .
a fundamental issue is at stake .
as objec tion able as working with groups like the islamic state might be , it is important to remember that the main objective of efforts like the campaign to eradicate polio is to improve the health of people wherever they may live .
to lure african and foreign funds , africa ’ s governments , businesses , and industries must commit to improving and making more accessible statistical information across all sectors , so that investors can assess market conditions with the necessary degree of confidence .
yet americans pay these trained professionals the same wages paid to those who park our cars , walk our dogs , flip our bur gers , and mix our dr inks .
president bill clinton stepped in , and prevailed upon the two sides to work out their remaining disagreements .
xinjiang covers nearly 6 50,000 square miles ( 1.7 million square kilometers ) , but it is home to only 21 million people , many of whom are members of nom adic tribes .
but it has the potential to ensure regional food security , promote broader economic development , and ultimately help to feed the world .
for her , unconventional action could be justified only by an imminent existential threat to the eurozone ’ s stability .
istanbul – when land sli des devastated parts of tajikistan ’ s khat l on province in early 2009 , the village of bal d z hu van was better prepared than most .
other countries in the region will have to follow suit and reform their economic systems , or face the wrath of their increasingly disgr un tled citizens .
yet ever more people are losing confidence that international cooperation can solve today ’ s problems .
perhaps that is just a temporary effect and the euro will decline when global financial markets recognize that a weaker exchange rate is needed to reduce current-account deficits in the eurozone ’ s three major latin countries .
this year ’ s nobel prize in economic sciences was granted to ol iver hart and beng t hol m str ö m for their contribution to understanding contracts , a fundamental device for private- private coordination .
rapidly expanding demand for skilled workers can not be satisfied as long as average schooling still tot als eight years .
the convergence of global incomes has blurred the line between “ rich ” and “ poor ” countries .
though the extent of the decline varies somewhat across countries – it has been less sharp in germany than in the united states , for example – the pattern is fairly ubiquitous .
one remarkable trend of the last few years has been the adoption or increase of minimum wages by countries hoping to mitigate inequality , with mexico being the most recent example .
but too many resources are often allocated to pal li ative redistributive measures that address the consequences of exclusion rather than its causes .
a shortage of any of these inputs can have disastrous effects on productivity .
in the meantime , chinese institutions are innov ating on a smaller scale , as they spear head a lean er and faster approach to financing .
from then on , europe ’ s only means of projecting power would be its trade policy .
years roll by .
and if a crackdown on corruption is carried out by a corrupt dictatorship , can it really be considered legitimate ?
free migration in the eu means that polish plum bers will not only catch up with french plum bers , but also with polish bankers .
indeed , the one prime minister who did press for an agreement , manmohan singh , was met with strong domestic resistance , including from a coalition ally , making it impossible to gain enough votes to adopt the required constitutional amendment .
and while the app ’ s privacy policy has since been changed , that us firm retains the previously acquired data , which it could use for commercial purposes today and for who knows what else tomorrow .
in fact , the gst modi has introduced seems to replace the world ’ s most complex and fragmented system of indirect taxation with the world ’ s most complex unified indirect tax .
yet politics is integral to the problems highlighted by the tragedy .
meanwhile , the government has also announced a large recapitalization package ( about 1.2 % of gdp ) to shore up public-sector banks , so that they can write down their stressed assets .
but such responses reflect the same narrow - min de dness that led to the notorious “ pul ping ” of san k sr it scholar w end y don ig er ’ s er ud ite books on hindu ism .
moreover , a recent study revealed that india ’ s toxic air is also dissu ading executives from accepting as sign ments in delhi : people are turning down lucrative jobs in order to save their lun gs .
many modi supporters claim that the demonetization policy ’ s problems are a result of inept implementation .
when government policies keep india ’ s telec om rates among the lowest in the world , it ensures that the poor can have access to a technology that increases their autonomy .
but even if ni hal ani is ousted , and the review board goes back to its old ways , india will still be a modern democracy engaged in the thoroughly undemocratic practice of limiting freedom of speech , if only in the film industry .
this acceleration would place india among the world ’ s fastest-growing large economies and increase the number of indian consumers who can afford discretionary items from 27 million in 2012 to 89 million in 2025 .
efforts to ensure this have already begun .
after the chief minister of kar nat aka , a member of the opposition congress party , recently declared that he would eat beef , a politician from the ruling bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) threatened to be head him if he follows through .
iran offers official support to terrorists and its president has threatened publicly to destroy israel .
now that the floo d waters are rece ding , a peculiar debate has emerged over whether india should accept foreign aid to support reconstruction .
modi himself made the embarrassing declaration – in a speech at a new hospital , no less – that the figure of the hindu god g an esh , with its elephant ’ s head on a human body , att ested to the ancient hindus ’ knowledge of plastic surgery .
i was in india primarily as part of my current role as chairman of a review for the british prime minister on anti- mic robial resistance ( amr ) .
for example , the automation of knowledge work – the software and systems that are increasingly capable of performing human tasks that require judgment – could affect 19 - 29 million jobs by 2025 .
their goal is to keep it out of school curricula entirely .
one basic factor is india ’ s rising literacy rate , which has climbed to 79 % , owing largely to improvement in the “ cow belt ” of the northern states – the h indi - speaking heartland .
the military does .
to be sure , there are no easy solutions .
the practice began in the days of the british ra j , when the railway budget rival ed that of the rest of the indian government .
building intellectual capital and institutional competence can take years , but it can be done .
modi r ash ly promised that he would create 20 million jobs per year , implying that almost 100 million jobs should have been created by now .
iran is the world ’ s third-largest net oil exporter ( with the world ’ s second-largest natural-gas reserves as well ) , and it is a strategically located gateway to other energy suppliers in central asia and the middle east .
it provided refuge to the dalai lama when he fled chinese occupation of tibet in 195 9 , granted asylum ( and eventually indian citizenship ) to more than 1 10,000 tibetan refugees , and permitted them to create a government- in- exile ( albeit one that india does not recognize ) in the pic tu res que himalayan hill town of d har am sal a .
indeed , this “ financial repression ” tax on domestic savers remains a huge opaque source of funding for india ’ s debt- ridden government .
they note the infrastructure improvements – airports , for example – while sigh ing over what remains to be done and drawing in vi dious comparisons with china .
just as israel has frequently been attacked by rockets fired from across its border with gaza , india has suffered repeated assaults by killers trained , equipped , financed , and directed by elements based next door in pakistan .
he wants pakistan to succeed as a moderate , modernizing country .
for india , an energy- starved country , much is at stake .
in that case , the threat led to the arrest of its issu er – an outcome that many hope will discourage future such threats from social-media mis og yn ists .
but business activity remains bo gged down by myriad restrictions and a frustr at ingly slow judicial system , which , together with a complex system of price subsidies , encourage widespread corruption at every level of government .
but , for india , such hopes have been betrayed too often in the recent past for it to continue to turn the other che ek .
last year , the country ’ s gdp growth slowed , manufacturing plummeted , and inflation and corruption grew un controll ably .
demonetization dos and don ’ ts
they are poorly distributed , unsafe , and not fu ture- ready .
those governments should also leverage their assets , including land ; mobilize user revenue ; and modify financial regulations and incentives to increase investors ’ risk appetite .
in 2014 , it was $ 1, 5 70 .
points earned could be spent on lifelong education and professional training , which would thus become independent from employment status .
but seven decades later , the legacy of equality is fading .
as a result , there was no appetite among the us and its allies – including my own country , and the australian government of which i was a member – to look closely , then or since , at how su har to ’ s new order consolidated its power .
beginning in the eighteenth century , the less- developed west european and east asian countries followed their more successful neighbors : em ulating a fl y ing- ge ese pattern , they benefited from the leaders ’ tail wind as they first industrialized and then became advanced countries themselves .
things are not quite so simple .
furthermore , governments should create an environment that fosters small innovative startups .
but i don ’ t see what alternative political- economic arrangements could make individuals ’ relative wealth closely cor respond to their relative moral or other merit .
as difficult a puzzle as income inequality may seem today , failing to solve it could lead to far more severe challenges .
that , together with the counter fac tual – the economic calamity that would be fall germany following a collapse of the euro – implies a unique obligation to maintain it .
no , it ’ s supra- politician .
the crucial change is the enormous reduction in the cost of trans mitting and storing information .
there are many ways this could be done .
true , once the inflation gen ie is let out of the bottle , it could take several years to put it back in .
that process is now coming to an end as employment rises .
having achieved the latter , it can declare at least half a victory and gradually start lifting rates .
as events in egypt and elsewhere have shown , we are only just beginning to comprehend the effects of the information revolution on power in this century .
its first regional center for africa will be based in south africa .
over the next 15 years , more than $ 90 trillion in infrastructure investment will be needed worldwide .
in a new book , tom as hel le br and t and i project that consumer spending on transportation will quad rup le by 2035 in sub-saharan africa , india , china , and other emerging asian countries .
managing this challenge is crucial if we are to realize the promise of individu alized medicine , with intensified surveillance and therapy for high-risk patients and avoidance of unnecessary or even harmful interventions in those with a relatively low risk .
economist sim on ku z nets proposed the existence of a sharp rise in inequality upon industrialization , followed by a decline to social-democratic levels .
silicon valley itself was built on demand .
when firms hit by reduced demand stop hiring for a time , some people who would have joined established firms use their situation to dream up new products or methods and organize startups to develop them .
the economist ty ler cow en has suggested that developing countries may benefit from the trick le- down of innovation from the advanced economies : they can consume a stream of new products at cheap prices .
can you make fish ho o ks or natural gl ues ?
for half a century , europe ’ s integr ation ists have sought un questioning acceptance of their efforts .
capital markets must be subject to much more detailed and frequent hand s- on supervisory inspections .
country- level planning and resource allocation is still the rule for most businesses operating in africa , resulting in inefficient allocation of human and capital resources .
indeed , for the first time on record , real health-care spending stalled on average in the oecd in 2010 , as developed countries , reeling from budgetary constraints , cl amped down on health programs .
so , how did turkey do it ?
one can debate whether a referendum is the most appropriate vehicle for asking for their consent , but ask one must .
in recent years , research has indicated that vested interests and powerful lobbies distort economic policies and cause governments to miss good opportunities .
ironically , today ’ s pain stems from one of the great successes that emerging economies have achieved : the reduction of foreign-currency funding in favor of local- currency debt .
ultimately , even hurricane katrina and other disasters of similar magnitude are small by world standards .
the ip standards advanced countries favor typically are designed not to maximize innovation and scientific progress , but to maximize the profits of big pharmaceutical companies and others able to sway trade negotiations .
other reforms concern the patents themselves , and include shor tening patent terms , introducing us e- it- or los e- it provisions , and instituting stricter criteria that limit patents to truly meaningful inventions .
the trip ’ s scheme failed to recognize this .
google and alibaba now compete for the world ’ s top computer engineers , many of whom are european , in order to win the race to control the world ’ s data , develop quantum computing ( on which the next generation of en cryp tion will rely ) , to create more profitable applications of artificial intelligence .
a similar court should do the same for crimes against the environment and its defenders .
determining whether an action meets that criterion is a decision that only a country ’ s political leaders can make .
the rule of law and ethics , built into the fabric of corporate governance , must now take center stage .
his reply was always conditional .
still , the fight is far from over .
time , like money , is a scarce resource ; and , because goods and services related to information require our attention , they are time- intensive .
many governments have recognized this to some extent , setting ambitious goals for mobile internet coverage , broadband infrastructure , and public wi - fi access .
china has the largest number of internet users , but its “ great fire wall ” has created barriers with parts of the outside world .
the eu ’ s recent judgment against google – a record $ 2.7 billion fine for anti- competitive behavior – was well conceived , but under sized .
the subject of an interpol alert can face lengthy periods in detention while challenging ex tradition .
and , as the doctors and d enti sts who were buying gold coins two years ago now un load them , it is not yet clear where the downward price spiral will stop .
the tragic legacy of the iraqi intervention continues today , however , because it now stands as a cau tionary tale against all intervention .
the children they help are more likely to be able to attend school , and grow into healthy , educated adults .
it is reported that one tokyo department store marked the time of year for shop pers by hanging a huge cru ci fied father christmas in its entrance hall .
naming these individuals would concentrate minds in damascus .
in less than a year , president dwight eisenhower had approved funding for the national aer on au tics and space administration and launched project mercur y , nasa ’ s first human spac ef light program .
it then cites “ global current account imbalances , ” particularly “ the us external deficit , ” describing it as “ unprecedented for a reserve currency country to have a current account deficit of such magnitude . ”
most rational analysts would argue that keeping the planet healthy enough to support a thriving economy in the long term is a good investment .
if each garment were replaced half as often , the industry ’ s total greenhouse-gas emissions would plummet by 44 % .
iran , after all , is not building an islamic bomb .
iran certainly regarded the meeting as a propaganda opportunity , promising wide media coverage at a time when it was in the eye of a diplomatic hurricane .
that year , he used diplomacy relentlessly and skill fully to achieve a breakthrough nuclear agreement with the soviet union , the limited test ban treaty .
it is in this lab y r in th of power that rouhani is fighting an intense battle with his conservative adversaries – a battle that may be far from over .
and yet these outcomes do not necessarily amount to broken promises .
indeed , the two other options – iran ’ s emergence as a nuclear power or the use of military force to prevent this – would , in addition to all of its horrible consequences , also increase oil and gas prices .
but the agreement ’ s potential benefits can not be denied .
today ’ s low- and middle-income countries are only now entering a period of true sovereignty .
since entering into force in 1968 , the npt has been central to holding the line on the spread of nuclear weapons .
but the so-called joint comprehensive plan of action will be judged by its implementation , which will take years .
the consensus among the negotiating partners – one of the few points of agreement regarding the middle east among the security council ’ s permanent membership – was crucial in convincing iran to take the negotiations seriously .
but if iran ’ s hardliners were frustrated by previous negotiations , their disappointment vanished yesterday .
the result is the emergence of the islamic state , carrying with it the threat of extermin ation of the country ’ s minorities , including christians and alaw ites .
sanctions , while useful , work only in the very long term , and a change in the balance of power within the country is not foreseeable in the short term .
iran ’ s security forces are too strong and have too much at stake in the current system , which gives them control of vast swaths of the iranian economy .
india ’ s stance must be particularly troubling for trump .
in his speech at a gathering of sunni muslim leaders in riyadh , trump delivered a sharp and vis cer al rebu ke of all things iranian – including , it seems , that country ’ s recent elections .
it is thus un fa thom able that they would dictate to arab countries in any capacity .
but the same can be said of jewish and christian texts ; and the right to education , without discrimination , is guaranteed in several international declarations and co ven ants , such as the universal declaration of human rights , to which almost all countries , including iran , have agreed .
most worrisome of all , he is close to the two main groups that represent the most extreme elements in iran : the islamic revolutionary guard corps and the b asi j organization .
a disastrous possible policy – military attack on iran – has been headed off by a misguided , mis interpreted intelligence report .
when a national currency loses 50 % of its value in a matter of weeks , economic collapse is at hand .
yet few in the iranian establishment understand that being the leading regional power brings responsibility ; and that only responsible behavior can create legitimacy and acceptance that iran cr aves .
nor can it exercise its traditional functions in the religious sphere to provide support to civil society in the country .
reacting to mounting fear of western military action against iran ’ s nuclear facilities , revolutionary guard commanders recently shar pen ed their rhetoric against the us and israel .
what ’ s missing this time , however , is a charismatic leader comparable to khomeini .
mous sav i , iran ’ s prime minister between 1981 and 1989 , is barely known to young voters .
the irg c may have wanted some bargaining chips to help spring of its members captured in iraq .
it is something else altogether for a region to sec ede from an existing independent country .
meanwhile , the aims of france , the united kingdom , the united states , the arab league , nato , and qatar , all of which have played a role in libya ’ s transformation , are unlikely to be the same .
those men and women who learn to make and deton ate road side bombs on the streets of baghdad will ply their trade elsewhere in the region and beyond .
it was bad enough to deal with sad r as a band it ; simple political arithmetic now dictates that he will likely be the central figure deciding the outcome of october ’ s vote on the constitution .
the new shia elites who control iraq have em ulated their allies in iran , creating a system that effectively chooses which of their rivals may constitute a “ legitimate ” opposition and which may not participate in the political process .
above all , the government must spare no effort in convincing poor iraqis of the value of democracy and freedom , and how important the constitution is in realizing their aspirations for a better life .
the easiest strategy for liberals is to side with conservative muslims who reject not only radical islamism , but also political reform .
the key to improving police operations is to emb ed more us and allied police officers in the police force to ment or iraqi officers .
for iraq , this is a brain drain that will be hard to repair .
apple , brussels , and ireland ’ s bru ised sovereignty
the irish banking system approached total collapse in september 2008 , and was only saved by a € 400 billion government guarantee of all bank deposits .
would-be borrowers do indeed face genuine challenges as a result of these regulations ; but that is nothing compared to the pain that a collapsing bubble would cause .
the esm is ireland ’ s insurance policy as we work our way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to the markets .
war w ick , uk – is academic freedom affordable in a time of economic crisis ?
· too many sectors of the us economy have not completed their balance-sheet rehabilitation process .
two economists , ru dig er fa h len br ach and ren e st ul z , tested these implications by studying the ceos of almost 100 large financial institutions from 2006 to 2008 .
after all , the us went off the gold standard in 1933 , and the fed cut the discount rate to 1.5 % in 193 4 , ending deflation ( except for minor episodes ) ; but the unemployment rate did not fall consistently below 15 % until 1941 and the onset of world war ii .
but what makes for a great central bank governor in our modern societies , great institutions or great individuals ?
this was the first time that china had included the map in an official communication to the un , and it caused great concern among some asean members .
is china over taking america ?
sharply raising the government ’ s already out sized profile in the economy will upset this delicate balance leading to slower growth in the future .
that is what the chinese government has begun to do .
call it global cour t ship by an a vid chinese su itor .
economic growth has been slow , approximately half of women are illiterate , and the region is not well integrated into the world economy .
in fact , iran has invested hundreds of millions of dollars in syria , and annual bilateral trade tops a billion dollars .
afghanistan , iraq , palestine , and now iran : all seem to be under attack as part of the “ global war on terror . ”
in 1931 , france refused to help stem the central european financial crisis because it believed that germany was re arming , in violation of the treaty of ver sa illes , signed at the end of world war i . political tensions between france and germany may very well grow in the coming months and years , following françois hollande ’ s victory in the french presidential election , but they will not begin to rise to that level .
unless it is met , the eurozone ’ s financial disintegration will eventually resume .
and she insists that , years ago , when she took drug x , it made her feel like a new woman – despite the fact that , in 1,000 patients , drug x has demonstrated , on average , no effect .
that means that roughly 1.3 million more people will be employed in america in 2009 , 1.9 million more in 2010 , and 0.7 million people employed in 2011 .
but much remains to be done : the entire educational system , up through the university level , requires serious reform , and many taboos regarding employment rules , social security , and the functioning of the state must be questioned .
moreover , ethics committees must be made aware of the special circumstances of sports , which limit the effectiveness of broader social policies on genetic modification .
is gordon brown elec table ?
given these factors , the j g b market , which has been stable so far , will face serious trouble in the years ahead .
first , overall demand for goods and services is much weaker , both in europe and the united states , than it was in the go- go years before the recession .
in past decades , large expan sions of bank reserves caused lending surges that increased the money supply and fueled inflationary spending growth .
its response was to offer targeted and ex ped ited debt relief – often by bringing in new temporary bankruptcy legislation that forced limited debt write- downs .
against this background , the notion that re claiming territory from isis will amount to freeing the region of extremist groups is clearly naive .
hundreds of thousands have lost their lives ; millions have been rendered homeless .
there are no easy ways out of under development without challenging traditional lifestyles , customs , and social relations .
violent islamic jihadist movements do not pose an existential danger to europe or north america .
the carbon dissolved in the ocean has altered its chemistry , driving up ac idity by 30 % since the beginning of the industrial revolution .
princeton – last month , us president barack obama hosted a three- day summit on “ countering violent extremism . ''
if islamic finance is to play its full part in revit alizing and diversi fying the economies of the o ic countries , governments will need to undertake important reforms .
as a result , malaysia has developed both a general civil code , which is applied universally , and islamic law , which is applied only to muslims in personal and family matters .
first , us president barack obama should pull the plug on cia covert operations .
indeed , wikileaks quo tes former us secretary of state hillary clinton accusing qatar and saudi arabia of collusion “ with al qaeda , the taliban , and other terrorist groups . ”
as he watched the rise of the nazis in the 1930s , sig mun d fre ud described the dangerous appeal of authoritarian leaders and the satisfying self- ag grandi z ement that their followers experience when they sub sum e their personalities in an ideology or group .
the refusal of president bashar al-assad ’ s regime to allow who to carry out vaccination programs in insurg ent- controlled areas directly resulted in a polio outbreak in 2013 .
of 29 non- arab muslim countries evaluated by polity iv , 11 enjoyed significant political rights for at least three consecutive years in the period from 1972 to 2000 , while eight experienced at least five consecutive years of political rights .
the most influential muslim woman in british politics , bar on ess sa ye ed a war si ( also the conservative party chair person ) , joined other muslims in the house of lords , such as lord ah med , the most senior labour peer , and bar on ess k ish wer fal kn er , a liberal democrat .
failure to understand and interpret the true and fundamental message of the koran has brought only mis fortune to muslims .
drawing on critical scholar ship in history and the ology , they have detailed the ways in which muslims have changed - and continue to change - their traditions , in different times and places .
indeed , in europe , north america , and elsewhere , the omni present japanese tourists of the 1970 ’ s have been replaced by chinese and koreans .
how does the fed deal with such a situation ?
moreover , israelis and people close to hezbollah in lebanon are talking about “ another round , ” while many pundits in the middle east believe that a limited war could un block a stagnant political situation .
but their arguments did not carry the day .
that reflects saudi arabia ’ s output increase of more than a million barrels a day , as well as mandated efficiency measures in the european union , partly motivated by efforts to cut carbon dioxide emissions , which have contributed to a comparable drop in demand – by about 1.5 % a year .
palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas and his colleagues know perfectly well that un recognition by itself will not deliver an end to occupation and the full realization of a sovereign palestine .
some palestinians in the west bank and gaza objected to the accords ’ failure to call explicitly for the end of illegal israeli settlement building .
there was no public reaction when , after the gat e keepers was released , prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’ s office issued a statement saying he had not seen the documentary and had no intention of doing so .
b ds is an “ anti- apartheid ” movement , comes the reply , adopting the methods and spirit of nelson mandela in south africa .
as recently as 2006 , ehud olmert had won an election in israel on a do v ish platform , pledging to extend ariel sharon ’ s unilateral withdrawal from gaza to the west bank .
today , israel is relying on historical claims to occupy another people .
those prospects will diminish further if the annex ation ist jewish home , with whose domestic platform ( a liberal economy , a better deal for the middle classes , and military service for the orthodox ) lap id fully con cur s , jo ins a lik u d- y esh ati d government .
and there may indeed be cases where armed intervention is the only way to stop mass murder .
while the weakening and roll back of iran serves israeli strategic interests , israel will have to reckon with sunni islamist power everywhere in its vic inity , leading directly to a strengthening of hamas .
given that the palestinians ’ political leadership is divided between the fat ah -led palestinian authority , which controls the west bank , and hamas , which has established an islamic fundamentalist regime in gaza , a deal between israel and palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas would mean little .
this approach also lost credibility as a result of the rise of hamas and its determination to wage permanent war on israel ; iran ’ s expanding influence and nuclear weapons ’ program ; and the high – even rising – levels of hatred against israel among arabs and muslims .
israel ’ s lonely prosperity
such was the case of the 1973 war , which was started by president anwar sadat with the aim of forcing the united states to broker an egyp ti an- israeli peace .
the palestinian leader y asi r arafat turned him down flat and instead returned to a massive campaign of terrorism against israel .
and it repeatedly ut tered threats that “ all ” options are on the table .
the palestinian police have cooper ated with the israelis to contain violence on the west bank .
in some cases , there is explicit cooperation with israel .
once people stop believing that israel is defending the west against fascism , israel will be blamed for all the violence in the middle east .
i have no first- hand knowledge of the legislative process in the united states .
it has impressive universities and a high education level , well-  managed global companies , and a strong work ethic .
indeed , the opposition has access only to a few newspapers and radio stations , leaving the internet the sole remaining space of freedom in russia .
the d sm - iii ’ s confusion of normal intense sadness and depressive mental disorder , which persists to the present , emerged inadvertently from psychiat ry ’ s response to challenges to the profession during the 1970 ’ s .
consequently , employment and wages have also increased .
this type of rescue strategy also makes it possible to increase the required supervisory equity- asset ratios of banks in the midst of the crisis without risking a credit crunch .
they need not be democracies , either : china , vietnam , and cuba come to mind .
given that china is the second largest economy in the world , it didn ’ t take long for european officials to reduce their own growth projections , and for the international monetary fund to revise downward its expectations for global growth .
some imports would become cheaper as well , benefiting american consumers .
unfortunately , that spirit did not end well , with both stock prices and corporate earnings cr ashing catastroph ically at the end of the decade .
there are three reasons for europe ’ s changing politics .
following last year ’ s bailout , italy ’ s treasury owns about 70 % of the bank .
but italy is not just losing skilled , ambitious , and visionary workers .
why italy is the latest to question policy orthodoxy
and while some of the coalition ’ s popularity is due to support for un attractive policy positions – namely , the ruling parties ’ anti-immigrant stance and confrontation with the eu – it also reflects voters ’ desire for a modern ized welfare state .
china , for its part , is rapidly advancing in these areas , creating significant opportunities for young people in the process .
the obvious candidates will not or can not take on the role : britain has excluded itself ; france is paralyzed until next year ’ s presidential election and possibly beyond ; and spain can not even form a government .
renzi , too , pursued limited reforms , but eventually fell prey to his own outsize ego .
b owing to this reality , the coalition partners have now dropped the idea of abandoning the euro , exp un ging the possibility from their “ contract ” and respective websites .
this s cl ero tic arrangement , however , has enabled those same right-wing populists to present themselves as the only alternative to “ the system . ”
at a time of substantial economic challenges – italy ’ s output has been stagnant for a decade , and its public finances remain precarious – the populist five star movement , which has pledged to hold a referendum on continued euro membership , may well temp t voters .
they are under writing the narrative that renzi is the only person who can save italy from itself ; that may be the right bet – at least for the time being .
for example , tax evasion is pervasive , so increases disproportionately hit those who already pay , fueling a widespread perception of un fairness .
as if this was not enough , pro di will face another problem .
and those are just the official figures ; the actual numbers are probably much higher , possibly more than double .
russia en visions ukraine becoming something akin to bosnia – a radically feder alized country comprising political units that each adhere to their own economic , cultural , and geopolitical preferences .
these assets are generally not followed by multiple analysts , and are not easily understood , giving him a greater advantage in applying his intellectual skills and the skills of others around him .
one small but important example of this is the average cost of setting up a business , which is € 15 8 ( $ 2 12 ) in canada , € 6 64 in the us , and € 2, 2 85 in the eu ( and as much as € 4, 14 1 in italy ) .
for now , such a perspective favors policy gradu alism .
in america , the post-world war ii g . i . bill financed higher education for dem ob il ized soldiers , and was a highly beneficial public investment in human capital .
some american strategists advocate a largely technological solution to this dilemma .
in fact , these moves might create new barriers to entry , entren ching market leaders and undermining innovation .
the us was far from consistent or perfect in this process , sometime to murderous effect in places like vietnam .
why ?
marginal parties that are not connected to political violence and do not incite hatred should probably be left in peace – dist a ste ful as their rhetoric may be .
under koizumi ’ s leadership , insolvent banks were made whole again .
markets reacted sharply , with the yen strengthening by 2 % against the dollar and the japanese stock market falling 3 % .
brussels – demography is not destiny , at least not entirely .
in japan , where cognitive , academic scores are overly emphasized above holistic human development , this style of engagement with the arts , including music , can foster not only an appreciation of beauty , but also imagination , cooperation , initiative , leadership , empathy , and compassion .
even if japan took steps to become a “ normal ” country ( whatever that term may imply ) , it would still not equal the power of the us or china .
that is why abe is determined to amend , or at least re interpret , japan ’ s constitution to allow for the kinds of defense maneu vers that other countries , from israel to india , employ when their people are threatened .
for the 30 years since the beginning of china ’ s economic reforms , chinese industry has achieved impressive efficiency gains by adopting new technologies and realizing economies of scale , leading to a huge expansion in locally made products suitable for export .
of course , the wealth of the government does play a role in economic performance .
such a scheme would include joint military exercises and information- sharing arrangements not just with south korea and the us , but also with china , india , the southeast asian countries .
what central banks can not achieve with traditional tools can now be accomplished through the circu itous channels of wealth effects in asset markets or with the competitive edge gained from currency depreciation .
and it is be ef ing up its relations with emerging giants like brazil , mexico , nigeria , and turkey .
he is particularly concerned with the constitutional provision that prohibits japan from maintaining “ land , sea , and air forces , ” arguing that it seems to be in direct contradiction with the existence of the country ’ s self-defense forces .
though the hike would have ostensibly served the objective of balancing japan ’ s budget , it also would have undermined consumption , which has yet to recover from the last tax hike , from 5 % to 8 % , implemented in 2014 .
japanese reactions reveal an extraordinary degree of stubborn self- righte ousness .
because the dpj has neither an upper- house majority nor the two-thirds lower- house majority needed to over ride upper- house votes , his government will be unable to pass budget and/or appropri ation bills by the end of the current fiscal year , march 31 , 2011 .
indeed , a landslide victory on the scale of abe ’ s may very well lead to some of them completely disappearing from political life .
rather , the japanese behave as they do because they are decent people .
asia ’ s new security landscape places a premium on seam less cooperation among us allies – a prospect that the sustained bickering between south korea and japan calls into question .
the world has been paying greater attention to reducing loss of life from disasters .
japan ’ s 150 million people still produce far more than 2.5 billion chinese and indians .
abe and his ministers were simply not provided with critical facts by the bureaucrats who are supposed to serve them .
for both reasons , a medium-term plan for some fiscal consolidation is desirable .
its style is almost scientific – fac tual , st acc at o- like , and un emotional – and it goes a long way toward meeting china ’ s demand for a convincing investigation and act of contr ition that might allow the bitter and still poisonous past to be overcome .
this is why i support america ’ s strategic “ rebalancing ” to enhance peace and security in the asia-pacific region .
the election question
even with a significant deepening of ties , however , bilateral relationships alone will be inadequate to counterbalance china .
and they have provided only about $ 250 million in aid over the last decade – a paltry sum , given the potential consequences of afghan instability for china ’ s $ 6 trillion economy .
far from v indicating him , historians will know exactly whom to blame .
indeed , their relationship is now characterized by what the japanese call se i re i ke ine t su ( cold politics , hot economics ) .
india ’ s relationship with china may depend on this choice for many years to come .
yet european competitiveness is in danger .
and , despite the resistance of saudi arabia and the sunni opposition , the us and the eu currently seem more inclined to accept iran ’ s inclusion in the geneva ii negotiations , especially now that advances are being made in the implementation of the international agreement on iran ’ s nuclear program concluded in november .
ukraine thus could have maintained normal relations with its neighbors , with the eu , and with russia .
for europe , interdependence is strongly correlated with energy security .
al ain pe y ref it te , the scholar , politician , and confid ant of charles de gaulle , said that “ without europe , france will be nothing ” ; but , without france , europe , too , would be nothing .
international negotiations with iran over its nuclear program have provided some reason for optimism , which could lend impetus to efforts in syria .
this endless search for the true loc us of responsibility ( both causal and remedi al ) is not restricted to the realm of climate change .
and the rest of the world does not seem to know how to stop its un rel enting advance .
emerging-market central-bank governors fear a us that alter n ates between expansionary policy that fuels huge ho t- money inflows and a domestic inflationary spiral , and rapid tightening that cho kes off credit and causes a domestic recession .
anyone with a lap top and an internet connection can gos si p with ( or about ) virtual friends ; witness extraordinary events that may or may not have happened ; or play games in a mo ck world of in comparable complexity .
but the depic tion of ideas as being somehow “ un- american ” has always been an ep i the t , not an argument .
put another way , globalization lowered the wages of low-skill advanced-country workers because others would perform their jobs more cheaply , and then consume the value that they had created .
instead , they are “ chosen by private equity firms to run the companies they control .
one thing is clear : economists no longer dare to assume that trend is trend and cycle is cycle , and that their reciprocal interactions are small enough to neglect on the first pass .
france has also undertaken ambitious reforms to reduce job -market du alism and give greater flexibility to employers as well as greater security to employees .
fortunately , the answer is a qualified yes : there are ways to ensure that fiscal accommodation now is followed by consolidation later .
in southern europe , investment has literally collapsed ; even in germany , it will reach pre-crisis levels only this year .
is there a better way ?
it may take time before agreement is reached and decisions are made , but the discussion is bound to resume .
furthermore , some countries have succeeded in reducing their public spending significantly without changing their social model altogether .
on the political front , the discussion is about what the eu should aim to become , and the post-election temptation is to give only one answer : less .
according to a cn n political analyst , it was “ the most important political speech of 2017 – and one of the most powerful political speeches in the modern era of the senate . ”
both scotland and the ru k might agree that scotland would temporarily keep the british pound but would move to a new scottish pound or the euro .
an urban sdg , promoting inclusive , productive , and resilient cities , would greatly empower tens of thousands of cities worldwide to take up the cause of sustainable development for their own citizens , their countries , and the world .
yet there was also frustration and be wil der ment , as vocal opponents of foreign aid began to oppose the increased funding for disease control .
cynicism is rife on all sides .
but today ’ s games also create an opportun e moment to look back at russia ’ s recent economic history – and to peer forward as well .
i know this from personal experience .
hardline approaches brought expanded conflicts in afghanistan , iraq , libya , and syria , leading to plenty of deaths but not to meaningful political or economic solutions in the affected countries .
there is even a place at the table for exxonmobil , ch ev ron , bp , pe abo dy , koch industries , and other oil and coal giants .
we have entered the age of sustainable development .
the result has been an un mitigated catastrophe : the destruction of iraq as a functioning society in an ongoing civil war , fueled by outside powers , that has caused economic ruin and collapsing living standards .
un secretary-general ban ki-moon has called for political leaders to attend a special summit in september 2014 , 14 months ahead of the paris meeting , to launch intensive negotiations .
by the criteria of international use as a reserve currency among central banks and as a vehicle in foreign-exchange markets , the most rapid declines took place from 1978 to 1991 and from 2001 to 2010 .
but the emerging-market countries have been so dis united that in 2011 they failed to support a common candidate for imf managing director .
indeed , it was ronald reagan ’ s administration that pioneered the use of cap and trade to phase out lead ed gasoline in the 1980 ’ s .
even if good leadership means a demonstrated ability to prevail in the face of intransig ent domestic political opposition , coup attempts , and inv asions , surely no leader can be held responsible for the effects of droughts , floods , or other natural disasters .
if the borrower runs into trouble , cac s make it possible to restructure debt with the agreement of a substantial majority of creditors ( usually around 70 % ) .
jokowi and sisi seem to have adopted this approach .
second , there is the high compensation of corporate executives and people in finance .
but in this case we are talking about an ecb purchase of dollars that would change the euro money supply .
jeremy corbyn , the current favorite to become the next leader of britain ’ s labour party , is the latest victim of this chorus of dispar agement .
of course , there is a certain logic to the public ’ s disdain for superstar compensation outside of professional sports and entertainment .
these risks can be managed effectively through proper treatment systems ( as in japan and south korea ) .
is this right ?
as a result , teachers spend their time in the most effective way possible – solving problems with students – instead of delivering un differentiated lessons .
so , rather than hire in panic at the first sign of a recovery for fear that they will be unable to do so later and lose sales , firms would rather make sure that the recovery is well established before adding workers .
“ [ h ] ist ory teaches us that enm ities between nations , as between individuals , do not last forever , ” he said .
mahmoud al- hab bas h , the palestinian minister of religious affairs , even went so far as to demand “ assurances that the talks won ’ t fail , ” because if they do , a new intifada would surely erupt .
in the case of john ny hall y day , it is perhaps not too far fetched to believe that this man of sp hin x -like mystery is now , like b au del aire , “ a block of gran ite surrounded by vague fear ” whose “ fierce nature s ings only to the ra ys of the setting sun . ”
brief and less complex interventions were also unsuccessful in ending violent crises – and in some cases even exacerbated them .
gains in south asia and north africa have been modest , while conditions in west asia have actually worsened .
first , the sanctions imposed so far – visa canc ell ations , asset seiz ures or fre ez es , and the like – will not give se vast op ol back to ukraine , but they will eventually bite , at least in certain russian business sectors .
ultimately , brazilians may just be too unsure about handing power to silva , who has become a media phenomenon but remains an unknown quantity .
nonetheless , they have shown great restraint in northern iraq since saddam ’ s fall , cont enting themselves with building up their autonomous province both economically and politically – to the point that it is independent in all but name , with a strong and experienced army in the pes h mer g a militia .
if this happens , iraq , lebanon , and jordan would not be left un affected .
it has largely been germany that has opposed integrating europe ’ s energy and natural gas markets .
this would require securing control over these resources . it would also require establishing new export routes to europe that , by circum v enting ukraine , would make the country vulnerable to blackmail , because a cu to ff of gas supplies to it would no longer trouble europe .
emerging economies on their own
the bretton woods conference marked one of history ’ s greatest examples of international economic cooperation .
but these simple steps are easy enough to grasp – and within reach for everyone .
in 1999 , in el li ot associates , l p v . ban co de la n ac ion and the republic of peru , the second circuit court of appeals determined that the plainti ff ’ s intent in purchasing the discounted debt was to be paid in full or otherwise to sue .
most important , markets have never been very good at achieving structural transformations quickly on their own ; the transition from agriculture to manufacturing , for example , was anything but smooth ; on the contrary , it was accompanied by significant social dis location and the great depression .
or , to put it another way , while the government is clearly doing some things that it should not , it is also not doing some things that it should .
there have to be rules of the game , and these are established through political processes .
indeed , the agreements have been used to challenge government actions ranging from debt restructuring to affirmative action .
new thinking is a natural consequence of high population density , provided the right conditions are met – conditions that include public spaces in which people can interact and culture can thrive , and a democratic ethos that wel comes and encourages public participation .
new york – there ’ s something dismal about writing year- end r oun du ps in the half-decade since the eruption of the 2008 global financial crisis .
does he realize that since the era of deregulation and liberalization began in the late 1970s , gdp growth has slowed markedly , and that what growth has occurred has primarily benefited those at the top ?
zurich – the world ’ s health needs are changing dramatically .
a decade ago , telecoms infrastructure was almost non-existent .
in this sense , obama ’ s declaration that russia is a regional power acting out of weakness , no less than russia ’ s suspension from the g-8 , may have hit putin where he is most vulnerable .
for europe , the implications of china ’ s rise are far-reaching , beginning with the united states ’ strategic “ pivot ” toward asia .
today , many identities are overlapping circles – aff in ities sustained by the internet and cheap travel .
the vote in dubai was 89 to 55 against the “ democratic ” governments .
for example , although meg ac ities have the potential to create new opportunities for workers and businesses , they can not solve universal problems like climate change or manage the production and protection of national and global public goods .
as china invests in advanced ballistic missiles , the fixed bases on okinawa become increasingly vulnerable .
perhaps the most critical question about japan ’ s future concerns its relationship with its neighbors – north korea , south korea , and china .
the preeminent power does not have to patrol every boundary and project its strength everywhere .
western cor respondents are aware of these risks when they travel abroad to cover active war zones .
the opec oil embargo at 40
already , in the us supreme court ’ s comments about juli ana , there are echoes of d red scott .
in several eu countries , more than a quarter of the population has been unemployed for close to a decade , and political discontent is bo iling over into extremism .
normally , a country that finds itself in such a position would urgently devalue its currency .
given the myriad special interests that such a deal would mobilize , it is highly unlikely that any trade agreement – even one limited to industrial products – will materialize any time soon .
many politicians , however , recognized that the imbalance was potentially problematic .
as liu shi jin , vice minister of the development research center of the state council , recently explained , the dilemma facing the authorities is that another massive stimulus plan to boost growth would mean more outstanding credit – a problematic approach , given the enormous debt and financial risks that local governments have accumulated .
in the short term , a cost shock deva states some economic activities , forcing companies either to shut down or move on to another line of business .
moreover , the asset- backed securities market is to be revived by the purchase of abs s .
but what is the appropriate eurozone inflation rate , given de facto economic stagnation ?
with violent crimes on a shocking upsurge , with the h ide ous crimes of child rape and abuse on the increase , there are nowadays frequent calls – backed by wide public support – to restore capital punishment .
the united states bor e the brunt of these closures , with biomedical r & d expenditure declining by more than $ 12 billion from 2007 to 2012 .
brussels – in the second american presidential debate , donald trump promised that , if elected , he would appoint a special prosecutor to investigate hillary clinton .
all sorts of animals are good at matching available means to given ends .
none of this should divert attention from the need to achieve a balance between population growth , appropriate dependency ratios for countries at different stages of economic development , and the fight for women ’ s reproductive rights .
in june , the european central bank , following the example set by the bank of england in 2012 , identified “ bank credit for the real economy ” as a new policy goal .
french president françois hollande , too , must feel like a fool – not just as a result of us surveillance , but also because he probably received no advance warning from his intelligence services about obama ’ s sudden decision to ask congress to pass a resolution prior to using military force in syria .
but what may be permissible and justifiable in a financial emergency may not be appropriate as standard practice during normal times .
and , without debt mutualization or large-scale redistribution of wealth , political union becomes unnecessary – at least for now .
but if we look beneath the surface , it becomes evident that we are still hovering on the edge of a precip ice .
what the economist ’ s study in 1930 showed is that trad ic ines accounted for 98 % of the cases that were successfully treated .
kazakhstan aspires eventually to join the advanced economies in the organization for economic cooperation and development .
since a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of the defaul table private debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability .
and , unlike china , germany no longer has a “ national ” exchange rate that can adjust in response to its current-account surplus .
what makes piketty ’ s argument so special is his insistence on a fundamental trend stemming from the very nature of capitalist growth .
real decision-making power will remain largely national .
that alone probably explains much of the difference among china , in a category of its own , emerging asia , and latin america .
these reforms should seek to achieve a thoroughly rev amped social contract that reflects the realities of twenty-first-century demographics and global markets , but that also remains sensitive to europeans ’ commitment to distribu tive fairness and political equality , and in sures citizens against shocks .
but the realization in 2007 that some of the system ’ s fundamental assumptions were no longer valid triggered a crisis with huge economic and social costs .
the crisis subsid ed when soviet ships carrying additional missiles turned back , and khrushchev agreed to remove the existing missiles from the island .
it is essential , particularly for making judgments about social welfare , to compare different individuals ’ gains and losses and to take note of their relative afflu ence , which can not be immediately deduc ed only from people ’ s rankings of social alternatives .
later , academic researchers identified more plausible reasons why the us might be able to run large deficits without great risk , as long as investors ’ desire for diversification , safety , and liquidity sustained global demand for us assets .
though us labor markets are tightening , and the new fed chair has emph atically emphasized the importance of maximum employment , there is still little risk of high inflation in the near future .
but past growth performance is no guarantee that a broadly similar trajectory can be maintained throughout this century .
my general sense , however , is that both views are extreme .
the imf calcul ates that a one-time 10 % wealth levy , if introduced quickly and unexpectedly , could return many european countries to pre-crisis public debt/gdp ratios .
for example , if the main driver is the massive influx of asian labor into globalized trade markets , the growth model put forth by the nobel laureate economist robert sol ow suggests that eventually capital stocks will adjust and the wage rate will rise .
the shift favors hardline creditors in bond issu ances governed by us law .
inventory management is labor-intensive and technologically demanding .
in kenya , however , this model is being eroded by the flow of public funds into private media outlets in advertising and through increasing repression .
the region ’ s hard- working farmers can now see added value in co- existing with the fence .
beyond this , discrimination is rampant , if often hidden .
is europe really ready to undertake such an effort if its wish for a kerry victory comes true ?
but , rather than emphasizing one problem over another , the top priority should be building resilience into all global systems .
their policies were directed at depriving capitalists of the ownership of the means of production .
second , post-war keynesian “ demand- management ” policies , credited with having produced the long post-1945 boom , ran into inflationary trouble at the end of the 1960s .
but the attack on it will never succeed unless policy keynesians like krugman are willing to work out the implications of irre du cible uncertainty for economic theory .
in general , states work better when ruling elites are bound by limits on their power .
and with good reason , for the problem with the de- stal in ization process was that , although the truth was partly revealed , no answer regarding what to do next was offered .
spending – whether by the united states government during world war ii , following the reagan tax cuts of 1981 , by silicon valley during the late 1990 ’ s , or by home buyers in america ’ s south and on its co asts in the 2000 ’ s – boosts employment and reduces unemployment .
momentum is growing .
tax claims against the telecommunications company v ymp el k om ( one of russia ’ s leading firms , and the first to be listed on the new york stock exchange in 90 years ) send an unambiguous signal to investors : no one is safe .
one should not underestimate the opposition that reforms continue to face among greeks .
so far , he has proved to be highly effective at keeping the bro man ce alive , and the forthcoming summit on track .
the second reason for the summit ’ s canc ellation was contradictory understandings of “ denuclearization ” – the single most critical issue in the entire episode .
moreover , there is the general matter of trump ’ s ignorance , lack of foreign-policy experience , and the many un filled posts in the us state department .
ru dy ard ki pling got his arithmetic right in 18 86 :
indeed , in the fourth century bc , the statesman and reformer sh ang yang famously asserted that , “ when the prince violates the law , the crime he comm its is the same as that of the common people . ”
the role of the techno- polity is to steer the world toward positive outcomes .
but , on the path to such a future , girls continue to face major obstacles .
the continuing rise in migrant deaths in transit poses a conundrum : as these migrants are pushed toward trafficking and smuggling networks , they are dragged further into the gre y areas of the international community ’ s response .
but singh ’ s successors could not hold on to his kingdom .
who ’ s afraid of tapering ?
and yet , while the consumption-tax increase is not ideally timed , i am not entirely pessimistic about its impact .
in any case , the success of monetary policy is difficult to deny .
russia does retain some support among rus soph one ukrainians of all ethn ic ities , including some jews .
six ty countries , including the us and most eu states , have recognized it .
the crippling lack of capacity means that lives are lost every day – particularly in rural areas – for want of medical attention .
in russia , however , the kgb is famous for turning the tables in any struggle with the kremlin appar at .
he ex cor i ates prime minister david cameron ’ s government for its “ poor economic record , ” and wonders how he and his cabinet can possibly pose “ as the guardians of prosperity . ”
after 14 years of failed military intervention in iraq , the us should recognize that “ a unified , stable , democratic , and federal iraq , ” as a state department spokes person recently put it , is a chim era .
currently , there are 25 constituencies nationwide , but reformers have long argued that a smaller number – each with a larger number of voters – would be less susceptible to manipulation by the political elite .
according to kuwait ’ s constitution , the new ruler has one year to appoint a crown prince , but he has to appoint a prime minister immediately .
we live in an age of financial capitalism , and the only intelligent way forward – for unions and other workers ’ associations – is for these bodies to help their members make increasingly sophisticated use of the tools of risk management .
along with a robust system of unemployment benefits , social protections such as healthcare and pensions are essential for overall worker security and to ensure a healthy economy .
the first trend is demographic .
indeed , something like this has been happening in the developed countries for at least four decades .
but criticism is one thing .
in an increasingly complex and specialized world , its provision must be supported , protected , and encouraged .
this could just be the beginning .
any major changes came not from deliberate decisions by central banks to real locate reserves , but rather from the simple arithmetic of changing exchange rates : a stronger dollar raised the dollar ’ s share in total global reserves , while a weaker dollar reduced it .
in some regions , poor record keeping and weak administrative structures have forced land owners to post notic es in their fields or on their homes , warning prospective buyers that they may be du ped into purchasing par c els from people who are not the legitimate owners .
preservation of frontier habit ats also helps regulate water flows , reduces the risk of flooding , and maintains biodiversity .
none operates out of its parents ’ gar age while awaiting an in fusion of venture capital .
public investment in infrastructure ( such as a massive expansion of the european rail road network ) , as well as climate protection and environmental technology , will be needed .
as if to prove that it understood the im propr iety involved , the troika compelled greece ’ s government to immun ize the h fs f board members from criminal prosecution for not participating in the new share offer and for the resulting disappearance of half of the taxpayers ’ € 41 billion capital injection .
in the 1960s , there was much discussion about latin american integration .
the ability to self- correct is essential for any country , and having it may be what saves brazil from past mistakes and mismanagement .
when the medic al- device industry was blocked from producing lucrative products like heart val ves , owing to the lack of specialized firms to provide sterilization services , the government used incentives to attract such companies .
in bolivia , voters rejected president evo morales ’ s effort to amend the constitution so that he could seek another presidential term .
in particular , china ’ s slowing growth has weakened demand for latin american commodities .
and that means that the region ’ s governments must be seen to deliver to their citizens .
something very similar occurred in ecuador and venezuela throughout the decade .
in sum , 2009 ended with a mixed pan or ama in latin america , with economic , political , and international progress accompanied by regressive and worrying trends .
the new left , if it stays the course on modernization and reform , can be a boon to the region .
cross-border flows of services have also recovered to pre- recession levels and have been growing rapidly at 10 % per year since 2002 .
after ranking first for decades , the us has fallen to 16 th place in college graduation rates .
the current system , all agree , is deeply flawed : the corporate tax rate is too high by global standards , and the corporate tax base is too narrow , owing to numerous credits , deductions , and special provisions that distort economic decisions .
when the recession hit , unemployment rates for workers at all education levels jumped , and they have yet to fall back to pre- recession levels .
that will require congressional action and additional revenues .
one approach is to put government in the role of venture capitalist .
meanwhile , corporate profits have soared .
distrust leads to political polarization , widespread anxiety about the future , and uncertainty in domestic affairs and international relations .
there is also mounting evidence that policy interventions in schools to promote resilience or empathy can have a positive impact on wellbeing .
fourth , central banks , especially in the us , mistakenly maintained loose monetary policy .
what america doesn ’ t have is a coherent view of government by those on the right , who , working with special interests that benefit from their extreme policies , continue to speak out of both sides of their mouth .
in ukraine , on the other hand , public outrage , buttressed by international pressure , brought the government to a halt .
it was important to moderate the competition in order to allow pressure for change to build up from within the soviet bloc .
well , for starters , he could suggest that she keep swe ets out of the house to avoid temptation , or that she put aside part of one of each day ’ s meals for a mid night sn ack .
effective leadership from the middle often requires attracting and persuading those above , below , and beside you .
should we postpone action until we learn about what works ?
meanwhile , lebanon ’ s new leadership must address the government ’ s dismal fiscal predicament , including a 2016 budget deficit amounting to 8. 1 % of gdp and government debt totaling 1 44 % of gdp – one of the highest public-debt ratios in the world .
iraq ’ s voters have spoken .
finally , lebanon must elect a new president .
officially , north korea began opening up to foreign investors in 1984 , when the government enacted the foreign joint venture law , following the success of a similar law in china .
beijing – over the last 35 years , china ’ s strong and sustained output growth – averaging more than 9.5 % annually – has driven the mirac ulous transformation of a rural , command economy into a global economic superpower .
in 2008 , the fed established currency- swap lines with the central banks of ten developed economies , including the eurozone , the united kingdom , japan , and switzerland , and four emerging economies ( brazil , south korea , mexico , and singapore ) .
indeed , enrollment rates for school-age fem ales have increased steadily at all levels , reaching near parity with male enrollment globally .
the question , though , remains : what happens next ?
democratic politicians should respond by imposing higher taxes on the wealthy and spending the proceeds on the less well off .
laws governing sex among cons enting adults can be similarly harsh .
and market forces did not come close to predicting near-zero interest rates for five years ( and counting ) .
thin ner , better dressed , and more soft- spoken , she developed a kind of charisma that enabled her to appeal to a wider variety of supporters , from unemployed young people to the disenchan ted middle class , from policemen wary of losing control to second-  or third- generation immigrants who wanted to close france ’ s doors to foreigners .
but that earlier effort entailed a major adjustment in interest rates via conventional monetary policy .
a high point of the meeting was the speech by christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’ s managing director , who stressed the marked change in her institution , at least at the top : deep concern about women ’ s rights ; renewed emphasis on the link between inequality and instability ; and recognition that collective bargaining and minimum wages could play an important role in reducing inequality .
stories like detro it ’ s have played out several times in developed countries during the last half-century .
after a decade of economic malaise , voters are skeptical of mainstream politicians who offer rote promises of growth and improved standards of living .
shortsighted politicians like bush often sk im p on long-term investments in favor of short-term advantage .
of course , poles should not settle for today ’ s levels of corruption .
on the other hand , the g-7 made a truly important contribution in offering debt relief .
subsidizing labor , by contrast , is a pure injection of liquidity .
what they failed to recognize was the extent of economic anxiety felt by working-class families in key states , owing to the dis locations caused by technology and globalization .
more recently , ukraine , libya , and iraq all gave up their nuclear weapons programs either voluntarily or under pressure . subsequently , ukraine was invaded by russia , iraq by the us , and libya by the us and several of its european partners .
permits that used to sell for more than $ 30 per ton before the crisis now trade for under $ 10 .
a second suggestion , to provide meaningful support to refugees , would be expensive ; admitting more is not a realistic option for many countries .
but holding 300 lebanese and nearly 10,000 palestinians – all of the first group and many of the second group without charge or trial – has proven to be a major source of irr itation to the arab peoples of the region .
throughout the world , people suffer from a serious perception error that has inhib ited them from taking concrete steps to protect themselves from inflation or deflation .
there is no question that current conditions present a unique window of opportunity .
following the crisis , this problem has become widely recognized , including by business leaders such as goldman sachs ’ ceo l loy d blan k fe in .
there will be no easy answers to any of them , but one thing is clear : we need transformative solutions that are scal able .
that means creating a system in which public funds are consistently targeted at the right areas , and for the right purposes .
without martin luther king , jr. and other inspiring african-american leaders , there might have been no civil rights movement .
historically , that of course includes the nazis , who were national socialists , and mussolini , who began his political life as a socialist activist .
this makes credible both their threat of insurrection before the bargain and their promise to protect property rights afterwards .
my father was a ( genuine ) rocket scientist , and i figured that just as air planes had become commonplace over the course of his life , space travel would become commonplace over the course of mine .
her government ’ s “ greatest responsibility , ” therefore , was to “ keep the peace . ”
but libya is not the only country that has tried to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities .
the “ st ain ” of direct involvement in armed action , coupled with fear of tali ban -like laws or a civil war like algeria ’ s in the 1990 ’ s harmed islamists of all brands .
third , the li a saga highlights swfs ’ potential cumulative effect on the stability of global markets .
the ntc has preserved much of the institutional paralysis and kne e- jer k behavior typical of colonel muammar al- qaddafi ’ s overthrown regime .
statehood came about in 1951 only through a constitution that balanced centralized power with extensive autonomy for libya ’ s historic regions , cy rena ica , tri polit ania , and fe zz an .
but the extremes of japanese rev anch ism were also kept in check .
in fact , they were working hard not to miss anything before they concluded that my tumor was rare but benign .
but any risk must be weighed against other grave threats that we face .
it contains an essential truth – the disregard of which says much about how we – the world ’ s financial , political , and technocratic elite – dist anced ourselves from our compatriots and lost their trust .
as german and dutch officials , in particular , have argued , banks ’ financial health must be addressed before completion of european banking union can take place .
in many that aren ’ t ( and even in some that claim to be ) , those who campaign for a more socially , economically , and ec ologically equitable world face severe repression .
will the spirit of hope that brought obama to power triumph over the winds of economic and social despair , or will fear in the west of the looming global recession spread to asia and destabilize its giants , china and india ?
a more ambitious approach would be to link aid and trade explicitly .
to be sure , europe may not need the two- to- one ratio of federal to state spending found in the united states ; but it clearly needs far more european- level expenditure , unlike the current min is cule eu budget ( whit tled down further by austerity advocates ) .
fit bit is not unique ; it ’ s one of many start-ups that are using their own customers to help them achieve greater scale in listening .
i ’ m not a whol e hear ted euro- enthusi ast , but a european union without britain feels like losing a lim b in a terrible accident .
retired people need life annu ities – contracts that offer a stable income stream for as long as they live – to insure against the risk of out living their wealth .
“ my country right or wrong ” is the parent of much misery .
but well before stalin , karl marx himself , although jewish by birth , set the tone for a vicious type of anti-semitism that infected the left , especially in france .
delegates shared best practices , discussed ways to accelerate change in a range of sectors , and sought innovative solutions to old management problems .
yet most people systematically expect the economic situation in their home country to deteriorate or remain the same .
in addition , local talent would be nurtured in its home context .
because investment is so low , net capital exports from germany are nearly 4 % of gdp .
china ’ s stocks have dropped by some 30 % since the conflict began , and further declines are expected .
the economic effects of this trend have not been all positive .
but over the past year , allies of chávez have come to power in countries like ecuador and bolivia , and just missed winning in a few others .
yet , even if many akp activists and voters are dev out muslims , er dog an and gul remain committed to european integration .
brazil and turkey , for example , have each instituted market- friendly policies that have made their economies more flexible and growth more durable .
as a result , actively managed funds typically do worse than passive funds , with returns after fees even lower and riskier .
but it is also important to convince people that combating climate change threatens neither prosperity nor private enterprise .
in the us , public debt is set to increase , thanks to the impending tax overhaul ; but the blow will be cus hi oned , at least for the next year or two , by continued growth acceleration .
maternal immunization against the flu also helps protect infants from pneumonia , a common cause of childhood mortality .
i was chief economist of the world bank in the late 1990s , when we began to receive similarly depressing news from russia .
according to this pseu do- historical re telling , keynesian economists in the 1960s did not understand the natural rate of unemployment , so they persuaded central bankers and governments to run overly expansionary policies that pushed aggregate demand above levels consistent with full employment .
if inflation does rise faster than the fed expects , it may be forced to increase interest rates rapidly , with adverse effects on financial markets and potentially on the broader economy .
on this front , china has been leading the way , with a strategy of consumer- led rebalancing that it introduced five years ago .
a cor oll ary hypothesis is that employers , disturbed by the extremely slow growth of productivity , especially in the past ten years , have grown le ery of granting pay raises – despite the return of demand to pre-crisis proportions .
the whole success story thus was in place in early 1999 , one year before putin entered the stage .
the first security , the es b ies , would be composed of the senior tr anch e of the bond portfolio , and would serve as the “ safe asset , ” while the second , risky security would be sold to investors in the market .
a document , an image , or a video is shared , and suddenly what was secret or shiel ded is globally exposed .
fifa desperately needs to restore its public credibility . that can happen only after the necessary changes at the top and throughout the organization have been achieved .
it is all too easy for leaders to convince themselves that they are telling a noble lie for the good of their followers , when in fact they are merely lying for political or personal convenience .
and his trade and industry minister is unlikely to repeat the an tics of a recent predecessor , who placed a gun on the table while negotiating import and export quotas with local producers .
of course , it will take some time for these policies ’ effects to be felt .
at the same time , he wants northern eurozone countries to send money to southern countries , to protect french financial and economic markets in these regions .
against this backdrop , even small compromises will be politically fraught .
eliminating the old “ right- left ” divide in french politics by uniting “ reformists ” of the left , the right , and the center , was the challenge that macron set for himself when he created his en mar che ! movement in april 2016 as part of his bid for the french presidency .
but there are signs of progress .
but the reforms are sorely needed .
as proof of his resolve , macron will probably propose a reform of france ’ s labor code as soon as the new national assembly is elected in june .
his goal is to bring down france ’ s stubbornly high rate of unemployment , just a sh ade below 10 % , and energ ize an economy that badly needs a kick-start .
macron is campaigning for votes from all parts of society .
the most dis quie ting interpretation of macron ’ s decision-making is that he is already captured by his own administration .
so , while the glo om and doom of 2016 may have rec eded , it could all too easily return .
such a framework could be administered under the auspices of the european stability mechanism , complem enting the esm ’ s crisis- lending facility .
paris – no , par is ian voters are not “ v om it ati ous , ” as the pathetic hen ri gu ain o proclaimed mon day after losing his seat in the national assembly .
but i also know , as machiavel li knew , that there is in the enthusiasm of youth , in its bold drive , in its fur ia , its vir t ù  , in its desire , something to which fate may cede more readily .
rising labor costs are inevitable .
largely due to malawi ’ s hiv/aids epidemic , the country has a million such orph ans .
to discourage a from hurting b , the reaction of c can be important , because if a knows that c will punish him for what he does to b , he might think twice before hurting b .
the purpose was to settle a conflict between rebel li ous bar ons and their king , a ruler described by a contemporary as “ br im ful of evil qualities . ”
israel and the us led a virtual blockade on palestine , with israel refusing to return collected taxes and the us pressing world banks not to recognize the signature of the palestinian finance minister .
however , despite remittances ’ evident value in supporting development goals , it must be remembered that they are private funds and should not be considered a substitute for official aid .
given constraints on inter- sectoral labor mobility , stemming from barriers to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur .
the emerging-economy growth engine is not broken ; it simply needs to be servic ed .
the frequent description of turkish prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan as har boring “ neo- ottoman ” ambitions for his country clearly impl ic ates this rivalry .
as a result , saudi rulers no longer feel constrained to wait for us approval of their actions – or even to refrain from acting against american interests .
yet some of the worst human rights viol ators are commission members .
the european defense agency has a very important role to play in proposing and running programs to address these shortfalls .
while china and india grow rapidly , most of africa is stagnating .
never has the need for international organizations like the imf , the world bank , and the world trade organization been greater , and seldom has confidence in these institutions been lower .
by itself , privatization is clearly not the solution .
the wall street journal , for example , america ’ s leading business newspaper , has run an aggressive editorial campaign against climate science for decades .
this would have the advantage of developing an active euro bond market .
beyond strengthening the economy and bolstering its partnership with the us , japan must address the enduring suspicions of countries that were brut alized by japan ’ s occupation before and during world war ii .
malaria is also expensive , costing africa ’ s economy some $ 12 billion per year .
two other antim al arial compounds in phase 2 clinical trials are currently being developed with support from medicines for malaria venture – one with take da pharmaceuticals and the us national institutes of health , and another with the french pharmaceutical company san ofi .
british experts from the malay an emergency tried to help the americans in vietnam - obviously without success .
as for the pas , its continued political relevance hinges on eliminating the threat posed by ma hath ir and its own spl in ter party , am an ah , formed by pro- anwar moderates .
the increasingly close relationship between china and the maldives represents a significant shift from the past , when india was the country ’ s primary regional partner .
ga o , kid al , and tim bu k tu were recap tured ; bam ak o was saved .
a research paper by stephen v os ti of the university of california , dav is , and colleagues shows that 95 % of haiti ’ s wheat fl our could be forti fied for a decade with an investment of just $ 5.1 million in premi x ed mic ron u tri ents , equipment , and training .
yanukovych was overthrown by a popular revolt in 2014 and fled to russia .
in recent years , enormous collec tions of confid ential data have been stolen from commercial and government sites ; and researchers have shown how people ’ s political opinions or even sexual preferences can be accurately g lean ed from seemingly inno cu ous online post ings , such as movie reviews – even when they are published pseu don ym ously .
as the european commission struggles to secure a clear negotiating mandate from all 27 member states , the us will face its own internal coordination problems .
this is a triumph for common sense .
together these new areas of science will allow us to manage the ecosystems on our planet , predicting the effects of human interventions , anticipating the flow of natural cycles .
indeed , it costs $ 0. 7 0- 0. 80 per cubic meter to provide pip ed water in urban areas , compared to $ 2 in spar sely populated areas .
ultimately , wahhabi fanati cism became the basis of modern sunni islamist terror , and saudi arabia itself is now threatened by its own creation .
a logical implication of the view that corporations are “ people ” is that shareholders should learn about the political spending carried out by the companies in which they invest .
and patients with end- stage par kinson ’ s disease can be treated with deep brain stimul ation ( d bs ) .
my family escaped the khmer rouge on april 17 , 1975 , the day they claimed victory .
for decades , the tobacco industry manufactured more than just cigarettes .
but as hall ward- dri em e ier and n ay yar note , regardless of where output occurs , tomorrow ’ s production lines will be smarter than today ’ s .
mao ’ s establishment of authority over china , his injection of patriotic pride into a land that had been app all ingly s under ed and humiliated by external and internal forces for a century and a half , and his romantic leg end as a global revolutionary leader – all contribute to the moral and political legitimacy for which china ’ s leaders search .
he has said publicly that the philippines is no match for china ’ s military might .
but one thing has become abundantly clear : their timid efforts so far – personal sanctions , an embargo on weapons exports , and the temporary suspension of russia ’ s g-8 membership – have proved to be far from adequate to convince russian president vladimir putin to back down .
by saving money for hard times , the government can implement countercyclical measures , while ensuring stable finances throughout the economic cycle .
and , as a woman , thatcher knew that she brought something unique to the corridors of power .
these reforms s owed the seeds of the financial crisis of 2008 .
oil company manag ements still believe , with quasi- religious ferv or , in perpe tually rising demand and prices .
that ’ s why it must be rebu tted , both in france and elsewhere .
one may wonder whether today ’ s highly competitive , fund ing- starved scientific atmosphere , in which publications and c itations have become a primary criterion for success , can accommodate such mistakes .
the f pc is part of the complex new uk regulatory structure , in which the former financial services authority has been split in two : a prudential and business- conduct regulator and a new body to monitor financial stability .
before china began opening its economy in 1978 , all newspapers and magaz ines were “ party newspapers ” and “ party magaz ines . ”
one way would to be adopt a proposal i made last year and introduce rewards of $ 1 billion or more to those who develop the mo st- needed types of antibiotics .
in other areas , traditional not- for-profit colleges perform better , with higher completion rates and superior labor-market outcomes .
the prosecutor and judge on the case have been allowed to do their job , despite the natural impulse of president dilma rousseff ’ s government to qu ash the investigation .
the anti-globalization brex plo sion
the bank , its shareholders , directors , and executives would no longer have tax reasons to prefer debt over equity , because the bank ’ s total pre- interest- expense income would be taxed ( at a lower rate than the tax on profit ) , without benefiting from deduc ting interest expenses on its debt .
empowering financial bankruptcy
banks overseen by managers who had larger unfunded pensions wea thered the financial crisis better than their counterparts , presumably because they had a stronger incentive to keep them safe .
no matter how well managed jpm was , both it and the us economy are lucky that what has be fallen it in the last year did not happen – as it well could have – in 2008 .
internet access would also bypass the problem of illiteracy , building on the oral traditions that are strong in many rural cultures and enabling communities to create self- help groups and share their problems with peers in other villages .
although this would reduce the annual rate of increase in benefits by only about 0.25 % , outlays for social security and other inflation- indexed programs over the next ten years would be more than $ 200 billion lower .
in short , favorable tax treatment of the purchase of insurance for major medical costs would reduce the national saving rate , increase consumer spending , lower the public ’ s anxiety about the cost of treatment , and increase the quantity of health care .
five years of declining gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments .
these so-called “ in versions ” would reduce these companies ’ total tax bill by allowing them to escape from the united states ’ uniquely unfavorable corporate tax rules .
we know what these cost and how much they add to the total nominal value of gdp .
even germany ’ s growth rate is below 2 % , while gdp is still declining in france , italy , and spain .
nearly half of 2013 third- quarter gdp growth was inventory accumulation , implying that final sales rose by only about 2.5 % .
the economy in 2013 was held back by tax increases , government spending cuts mandated by the sequ ester process , the temporary government shutdown , and the possibility that a binding debt ceiling would require further cuts in government outlays .
a few decades before luther developed his argument , a german black smith named johann es gu ten berg had invented a new system of mov able- type printing , allowing the re production of the written word at greater spe eds and lower costs than the labor ious and less- durable wood block approach .
in construction , which is a highly informal sector , productivity is 31 % below eu-15 levels .
after all , that is what has enabled the country , against all odds , to avoid all-out conflict , making it a beacon – however f aint – of hope in a crisis- ravaged region .
europe ’ s educational evolution
the treaty ’ s parties could even hold a conference to deliberate on the matter .
to see this phenomenon at work , consider the oil industry .
he chose to leave the mathematical form alization to others , because he wanted his readers ( fellow economists , not the general public ) to catch the “ intuition ” of what he was saying .
in order to lift half of the still- vulnerable population into the middle class , brazil will need 4.2 % annual gdp growth , on average , through 2030 – a target that can be met by tri pling productivity growth .
our economists estimate that investing to reduce the incidence of malaria by 50 % yields a 35- fold return in benefits to society .
in a more likely scenario , qatar may stop providing sanctuary for a few members of the muslim brotherhood and hamas , and discre e tly promise to rein in al jazeera , its state- funded television network , which broad casts throughout the region .
mbs ’ s second great achievement has been in foreign policy , where he has been able to prove his capabilities to his father .
we found that roughly two-thirds of the lives saved during this period were in africa , while around one-fifth were in china and india , and the remainder were spread around the rest of the developing world .
i would suggest several measures , both to reduce the risks of catastrophic feedback lo ops in the short term and to maximize the benefits of reform in the long term .
the upsurge in cases can be explained largely by the increase in the number of un vaccinated children .
today , i am encouraged to see that a fast-growing group of business leaders recognize that the greater freedoms and wealth they gain from globalization imply greater responsibility for labor and the environment .
that ’ s because your ham bur ger is being blamed for climate change .
as entry barriers fell , the proliferation of media outlets , it was believed , would make it difficult to capture them all .
and , like trump , he regularly used the media as a wh ipping boy to rally his supporters .
it amounts to a permanent and valuable resource for research into v ec tor control and disease transmission in bangladesh .
improving the education system of a country with more than 16 million primary and secondary school students – more than the combined population of 20 european union member states – poses considerable fiscal challenges .
further , the rate for value-added tax on health , education , clothing , and tourism was cut from 18 % to 8 % , while the vat on major food items is now 1 % .
events with very low probability but high impact – so-called “ tail risks ” – have also been at the heart of the financial crisis .
if its ice sheet mel ted completely , sea levels would rise by seven meters – meaning that we can not afford to lose even a small fraction of the ice sheet .
indeed , he began apolog izing for his earlier anti-semitic hate speech .
the stakes are high .
to achieve this , we must use innovative mechanisms to leverage and mobilize global funds , especially from the private sector .
today , low- and middle-income countries account for most of the mor b idity and 75 % of the suic ides that result from mental illness .
competition authorities tend to be more reluctant , recognizing the danger that large-scale mergers can consolidate an anti- competitive market structure , while creating even more “ too big to fail ” banks that may cause financial instability in the future .
but deng also unleashed the market , setting the country on the path toward unprecedented growth and prosperity that ultimately lifted hundreds of millions of chinese out of poverty .
even if a suitable candidate could be found to replace merkel , that person would not be able to match her in standing up to the likes of putin and us president donald trump .
moreover , germany has sold $ 15 billion worth of technology to china , and bilateral trade hit a high of $ 16 9 billion in 2011 , accounting for 30 % of total china- eu trade .
then- chancellor gerhard schröder had failed to bring down the unemployment rate , which stood at almost 12 % , and his social democratic party had lost a string of state elections .
the cumulative growth of employment between 1998 and 2013 in the informal sector was a whopping 1 15 % , compared to 6 % in the formal economy .
these policies can be found across emerging economies .
to reinforce this progress , we are also increasing public investment in science and technology at universities and public research centers throughout the country .
yes , they pushed their firms toward global markets .
those who are entitled to early retirement are taking it , rather than waiting for amlo ’ s cut .
but it is also of secondary importance .
he never did .
while tax reform was high on president felipe calderón ’ s agenda during last year ’ s presidential campaign , electoral reform was not .
stanford – when the berlin wall fell a quarter-century ago this november , pundits led by francis fu kuy ama proclaimed the end of history – the triumph of democratic capitalism over all rival systems .
and the idea that one could model the economics of racial discrimination as rational , if depl orable , behavior and trace out the implications was sometimes mis constr ued as paying insufficient attention to the character and behavior flaws of those who discriminate .
we may be in the early stages of reversing the trend toward increases in the size , scope , and centralization of government , with authority devol ving on more localized environments , closer to where people live and work .
but few economists expected that these countries ’ exports would improve as quickly as they did , especially in a subdued international environment .
given the enormous challenges that china faces – from rebalancing its growth model to addressing credit and real-estate bubbles – this is remarkable .
consider a preventable disease that most people have never heard of : kon zo , a permanent , irreversible , upper- motor neur on disorder , common in rural areas of sub-saharan africa that rely on the bitter varieties of the c ass av a plant as a staple crop .
speci al- interest spending leads to budget deficits , while the borrowing needed to finance these deficits dra ins yet more money from infrastructure and education .
its conclusion : a rising africa – and in particular a rising east africa – will never become a reality without economic progress across all sectors of society .
he re counted entering the still- sm ol dering ruins of the m all last week and seeing bodies hanging from ho o ks .
the distributional challenge
relatively my op ic policy frameworks may have worked reasonably well in the early postwar period , when the us was dominant , and when a group of structurally similar advanced countries accounted for the vast majority of global output .
the authorities need to remove the perceived guarantee without triggering a liquidity crisis should they let some bank or off- balance-sheet trust fail .
that is either not occurring or happening at a glac ial pace in southern european economies , where structural rigidities in labor and services markets need to be addressed .
the gain in spain
several european countries also became too dependent on domestic demand and need to rebalance toward the tradable side .
ensuring that it is the latter will require the patience and discipline – in both domestic and foreign policy – be fitting the major transformation now underway .
in oecd countries , the share of salaries in gdp has fallen by about ten percentage points , on average , to roughly 57 % .
it is the global public ’ s duty to take the same route .
however , other research reveals approaches that would actually do a lot more .
the waning of diversity in the middle east goes back more than a century , to the bouts of ethnic and religious cleansing that took place during the ottoman empire , including the murder and displacement of 1.5 million armenian and syri ac christians in eastern an at ol ia .
the us oil industry has proved more adap table and resilient than expected ; cheaper shale fields have opened even as old ones have closed .
a prime example is the za ’ at ari camp in jordan , which now hosts 8 0,000 residents ; but similar camps can be found in lebanon and other countries around the region .
the service now has 500,000 users and offers a syrian curriculum to service the 50 % of that country ’ s refugee youth who are out of school .
and these cuts have mostly hit public investment , thus undermining future growth prospects .
in their conflict with israel , their natural and historical partner has always been jordan .
as our understanding of diseases grows , more research is needed to determine the effectiveness of sophisticated new medicines in specific patient populations around the world .
over the last 50 years , mena countries have faced economic slow downs and even stagnation .
education and internet infrastructure geared toward productive use would provide the foundation of a new economy .
for example , hamas , the sunni fundamentalist group that rules the gaza strip , has survived largely as a result of financing from iran .
fe z – since 2012 , more than 12 million migrants and refugees have l anded in europe , the middle east , and north africa .
the cia was created in 1947 with two mandates , one valid ( intelligence gathering ) and the other disastrous ( covert operations to overthrow regimes deemed “ hostile ” to us interests ) .
there is no shortage of challenges facing the arab world .
morocco ’ s government , in particular , has made substantial efforts to develop its water resources , including through dam - building .
it is time for the gcc , anchored on saudi arabia 's power , to take up that role .
the first key proposal relates to health care .
policies and funding to support mid wife education , training , and regulation can produce up to a six teen fold return on investment , because when mid wives are involved in pregnancy and childbirth , mothers are less likely to require expensive emergency interventions such as ca es are an sections .
but the impact of anti-immigrant sentiment extends far beyond national borders .
crime and unemployment can not explain this eruption .
without such a foundation , anti-immigrant political headwinds and storms will continue to impede international cooperation .
to be sure , despite being a main stay of us foreign policy , secret diplomacy has always had its critics .
how will the american and asian countries that have largely ignored ratification respond ?
and , as it happens , raw - meat dis hes are more common in french and brazilian cu is ines .
increasingly , when a regional institution will not act , powers from outside the region find it difficult to intervene .
to succeed , china will need to become more att entive to the region ’ s complex dynamics ; find creative ways to participate in conflict- resolution efforts ; and respond enthusiastically to middle eastern governments ’ growing desire to connect to asia .
the forthcoming rout led ge hand book of the resource nexus , which i co- ed ited , defines the term as the relationship between two or more naturally occurring materials that are used as inputs in a system that provides services to humans .
indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead .
it unambiguously demonstrates xi ’ s personal authority and political resolve .
as the november 9- 12 con cla ve draws near , the international community ’ s attention seems to be focused mainly on technocratic policy changes deemed essential to restructuring china ’ s state- dominated economy and re energ izing growth .
c aging a tiger will not destroy a v amp ire .
indeed , i suspect that the people who need digital mirror the most are the ones who will recognize that need the least .
as eastern european countries become more closely integrated into the eu , they increasingly have to calculate the impact of their policies on relations with europe .
after the russian- imposed chaos , the international monetary fund is planning to inflict its own chaos on ukraine .
europe still constitutes a quarter of the world ’ s economy and remains one of america ’ s principal geopolitical partners .
the top executives at 14 leading financial firms received cash compensation ( as salary , bonus , and/or stock options exercised ) totaling roughly $ 2.5 billion in 2000- 2008 – with five individuals alone receiving $ 2 billion .
romney has provided few details about his deficit- reduction plan .
if every individual devoted as much energy and resources as the rich do to avoiding their fair share of taxes , the tax system either would collapse , or would have to be replaced by a far more intrusive and coercive scheme .
domestically , he ’ s trapped between the promises he has made ( such as the “ mnuchin rule ” that taxes wouldn ’ t be cut for the rich ) , the actions of president donald trump ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’ s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) .
and , even if there are , ensuring that workers – particularly those who previously held routine jobs – can fill the new digit ally assisted positions represents a major challenge .
in kenya , m- pes a – which trans forms one ’ s phone into a mobile wal let – has leveraged powerful network effects to bring about a vast expansion in the share of adults using digital financial services .
but , if we are to curb climate change and achieve the sdgs , it could be the only way for mfis to mobilize institutional investor capital at any relevant scale .
total shareholder return ( t sr ) and corporate social responsibility ( c sr ) often seem completely divor ced from each other .
the main obstacle is that they won ’ t increase the profits of drug companies , on which , in the absence of adequate government funding , our professional organizations , conferences , journals , research , and teaching institutions have become so dependent .
in particular , china ’ s breathtaking economic success seems to point to the existence of viable authoritarian alternatives to the western idea that freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and the market economy are bound together .
as the world dig s out of the current financial and economic hole , we need to look further ahead .
his political formula – a potent compound of religious identity , triumph alist major itarianism , hyper- nationalism , increasing authoritarianism ( including institutional dominance ) , constraints on the media , strong economic growth , and a compelling personal brand – carried him to re-election as prime minister twice , and from there to the presidency in 2014 .
in fact , the government ’ s actions are a serious problem , but not for the reason many people seem to think .
the last two – further improving the procedures governing the election of the next managing director , and more ev en- handed surveillance – could be pursued rather quickly and without having to secure parliamentary approval .
across the atlantic , the fed is set to complete its exit from quantitative easing ( qe ) – its policy of large-scale asset purchases – in the next few weeks , leaving it completely dependent on interest rates and forward policy guidance to boost the economy .
many americans started 2013 with high hopes that congressional leaders would overcome , even if only partly , the polarization and political dysfunction that had slowed recovery .
they also note that mexico ’ s impressive accomplishments in terms of macroeconomic stabilization , while necessary , have not proved sufficient to unleash the country ’ s growth potential .
but , while shareholders have clearly benefited from companies ’ unwillingness to invest their ample cash , the bulk of the injected money has been circulating only in the financial sector .
the path that this group of countries ultimately takes will influence prospects for the region as a whole .
hundreds have been injured in street clashes in cairo .
the end of the two-state solution
the solution has three components .
i have always argued that , besides good governance , the best solutions to the divisions and strife of the arab world lie in grassroots development and economic opportunity .
rather than bas h the bis , monetary authorities should be grateful for the informed perspectives that it provides .
in fact , some promising initiatives are underway .
today , the federal reserve has kept its benchmark rate below 1.5 % – 350 basis points lower than in 1999 – and has postponed any reduction in its bloated balance sheet .
and what do falling prices mean for economic recovery ?
the ord oliber al emphasis on personal responsibility fostered an un reasoning hostility to the idea that actions that are individually responsible do not automatically produce desirable aggregate outcomes .
most important , it prioritiz es the unemployment objective over the inflation target .
so if some write $ 80 and some $ 90 , they will receive $ 82 and $ 78 , respectively , in compensation .
yet the cost would be anything but negligible .
once such assets are par ked in opaque companies , they are often beyond the reach of tax authorities and investigators .
peaceful unification was a religious notion , a christian ut opia .
competition is like a tre ad mill .
rising productivity and capital accumulation increases wages and capital income , but monopoly power reduces these income shares .
one hopes that it has time to address the challenges before it drops a ball .
but moon has made it clear that his government will not be seduc ed by the olympic spirit .
what drives moral progress ?
in fact , even economists in communist dictatorships could pro ffer their best technical advice with a comparatively clean conscience , because they were convinced that introducing more market- medi ated outcomes would inject efficiency into planned economies and increase the sphere of individual freedom .
high-quality infrastructure is essential to economic sustainability and prosperity .
but today , with over 10,000 employees – 40 % of whom are women – from 70 countries , we are among the largest online retailers in the world .
swiss , british , and american banks have all been part of the retreat , but eurozone banks are at its epicenter .
as united nations high commissioner for refugees filip po gran di has acknowledged , this includes a dearth of educational opportunities .
over the past decade , the number of mor oc can women taking an active role in islamist associations or political parties increased dramatically .
governments must fund mosquit o- control and prevention programs , from the use of insec ti cides to the distribution of mosquito nets , as well as public- education campaigns and vaccination initiatives . ( although there is no widely available vaccine for malaria , three countries are set to take part in a pilot immunization program starting in 2018 , and some mosquit o- borne diseases – such as yellow fever , japanese enc ep hal itis , and deng ue – are vacc ine- preventable . )
during the 2016 clashes in the mexican state of o ax aca between the military and teachers protesting educational reforms , the military killed ten people , including 19 - year-old j es ú s cad ena s án che z .
i called a friend and got a few spar se details : kr is ’ s husband was away but had hur ried back . and no , there was absolutely no warning .
recent research by the international monetary fund on the contex t- specific vari ability of fiscal multipliers has raised serious questions about the costs and effectiveness of rapid fiscal consolidation .
m s. europe or fra u german ia ?
those demands were mostly un controversial for egypt ’ s revolutionaries , including islamists : the release of political prisoners ; a halt to military tribunals for civilians ; prosecution of the murder ers of protesters ( many of whom are senior police officers ) ; a purge of corrupt mubarak allies from the police force ; and a public trial for mubarak and his regime ’ s top hen chmen .
for the sake of egyptians and people living under tyranny everywhere , egypt ’ s government must take a brave stand .
mueller is also known to be putting the squeeze on manafort , a lobby ist and political consul tant with a history of helping dictators .
in the eurozone , economic growth remains anemic , causing leaders to look inward .
ukraine was threatened with an immediate quadru pling of its prices – or interrup tion of its gas supply - as a result of it new - found independence from russia during the orange revolution .
a global network of new stakeholders has emerged , including ngos and citizen activists – often empowered by social media .
a similar change in “ economic weight ” affected the international monetary fund and the world bank .
under that order , the rest of the world has closed much of the vast technological , educational , and infra structural gap with the us .
a second shift gave him – and can give millions more young people like him – a second chance .
the palestinian team is utterly indi st ingu ishable , superfic ially , from their european or israeli counterparts : they are hi p , young , talented , sophisticated , and more than anything they want to work to create a positive environment for their kids – or at least a psychological respite from the reality of occupation , violence , and war .
and barring radical im ams from entering france won ’ t stop another mer ah from going on a murderous ramp age .
but talk of regime change may have prompted musharraf to re- enter politics .
they also have fewer than ten scientists , engineers , and techn icians per thousand residents , compared to the global average of 40 – and 140 in the developed world .
not all of their efforts are altruistic ; in a few instances , crow d- funding and informal networks have benefited terrorism .
to be sure , suu kyi ’ s government res ents the ide alistic but partisan statements often issued by western leaders and un representatives .
yo he i s as ak awa of the n ip p on foundation re members eating rice shi pped from the country in the lean years after the war in japan .
the dollar
india is more self- contained than china , and it should have less difficulty in maintaining its upside momentum .
countries like pakistan , egypt , morocco , and haiti have already experienced food riots .
finance , at its best , does not merely manage risk , but also acts as the ste ward of society ’ s assets and an advocate of its deepest goals .
who will play draghi ’ s role in argentina ?
but that should be only a secondary consideration , because the present value of the for eg one licensing fees or roy alties would figure implicitly in any investment deal .
those most vulnerable to climate change are often least responsible for its causes , and have the fe west resources to deal with its consequences .
“ there is no question that a high quality major agreement today , as the nafta was in 1994 , could cause multilateralism to take a giant leap forward , ” says former us trade representative car la a . h ills .
that is what he did with north korea , when he insul ted its leader , kim jong-un , and threatened to rain down “ fire and fury ” on the country .
this idea is reflected in the words on the country ’ s seal : e plur ibu s un um ( from many , one ) .
as president ha ge ge in go b told us , the press often says things that he doesn ’ t like .
but , fearing a backlash , the obama administration tried to gain congressional backing only at the last minute – and as quietly as possible .
one example of this was the citizen -based movement that fought wto intellectual-property rules , adopted at the beh est of the us and other rich countries , that were sustaining high prices for anti- aids drugs in africa .
these cataly sts must be highly active , stable , and , for global scal ability , composed of ear th- abundant elements , such as iron , n ick el , or co bal t , not the scarce metals now used , such as ruth en ium or ir idi um .
nationalism and terrorism
there is nothing patriotic about trump ’ s belliger ence against mexican immigrants and canadian imports , or the nativist policies of the new italian government , or theresa may ’ s most famous statement after becoming uk prime minister : “ if you believe you are a citizen of the world , you are a citizen of nowhere .
the great paradox is that if the rise of identity politics continues , governments will be even less able to address the problems that are fueling it .
if har ari had started with a more parochial list of problems , his verdict on nationalism could have been very different .
the hope is that the world will recognize its collective interest in keeping development pathways open for poorer countries , both for these countries ’ benefit and for the sake of international peace and security .
but in the us at least , trump ’ s ideology – which has little to do with traditional republican conservatism – fram es the axis of division not as the many versus the few , but as nationalists versus glob alists .
relations between states are driven by cooperation , competition , and confrontation .
the threat posed by the new xenophobia should not be underestimated .
countries that contribute troops would appear to be siding unequivocally with israel , thereby losing all credibility with israel ’ s adversaries .
the project will take center stage at a gathering of investors in london on november 19 , providing an early glimpse of how environmental criteria can be factor ed into sovereign- risk models and hence into the credit ratings assigned to sovereign bonds .
apart from eu citizens , who in theory are allowed to seek work anywhere in the union ( romanian g yp sies in france might argue otherwise ) , three other categories of people have been allowed to settle in europe : former colonial subjects , such as alger ians in france , indians and pakistanis in britain , or sur in amese in the netherlands ; “ guest laborers ” who arrived in the 1960 ’ s and 1970 ’ s ; and political refugees , the so-called asylum-seekers .
this is the path to shared prosperity through improved technologies , political fairness , and ethical awareness .
suppose that , sle ep - deprived , you then switch on the radio or tv only to hear that us federal reserve chair janet yellen and european central bank president mario draghi are considering reducing interest rates further .
and , as has happened repeatedly over the last decade , a few months into the year , others ’ more optimistic forecasts are being revised downward .
in the last four years , tb care should have been revolutionized .
washington , dc – when pope francis visited the united states in september , he delivered historic addresses to the us congress and the united nations general assembly .
today , eli ot 's master piece can be read as a warning about the path being taken by russia , where politics under president vladimir putin has been growing murder ously medieval .
from country to country , legislation and court judgments are increasingly tr am pling on long- recognized labor rights .
but it is difficult to know how deep that adjustment has gone .
more than 16 ,000 schools have been damaged , including some 5,000 that were completely destroyed .
the hor sem an of the jewish apocalyp se
nineteen th - and twentieth-century european nationalists often regarded the us as the natural home for capitalists and “ ro ot less cosmopolit ans '' without any loyalty to their native soil .
campaigning at home , however , he talked only about the threat some palestinians pose to israeli security today , never of the opportunity that other palestinians offer for peace tomorrow .
the newly established israeli government refuses even to pay lip service to the internationally accepted requirements for peace .
most of their compatriots rejected it , as did the palestinians .
but with the emissions tap still on high , we are rapidly running out of room in the tu b .
as a result , such people often struggle to find employment , and even when they do find a job , their work environment may not be able to support them adequately .
rather than par se killers ’ motives , we better affir m our own values by denying that any reasons could ever justify such acts .
the rest they can manage on their own .
whether trump ’ s crus aders are lighting fires without quite knowing what they are doing , or whether they might actually wish for a conflagr ation , is not yet clear .
it is telling that the english language has more than three dozen words for grad ations of fear and anxiety : worry , concern , apprehension , unease , dis quie tude , in quie tude , ang st , mis giving , nerv ousness , tension , and so forth .
the only reason the country has not long since defaulted on its debts is that the european central bank continues to provide funds to the greek central bank through its emergency liquidity assistance ( ela ) scheme .
“ exit brexit ” is the official policy of the liberals , the greens , and the scottish national party .
on its so-called putin list – a sanctions watch list created last january – the us treasury identified 96 “ oligarchs ” based on the mere fact that they are worth more than $ 1 billion .
that is why g-20 leaders accept the need to work closely with the un – after all , no organization does development better .
in challenging times such as these , a strong eu is one that thinks strategically , shares a vision , and acts together .
above all , uncertainty has become the norm , in contrast to the gra y but predictable future offered by the old communist regimes .
the new generation gap
it needs a clear european agenda , one that dispen ses with small- nation thinking .
skeptics will say that the us is simply making a virtue of necessity .
second , we must accomplish this while leaving room for continued rapid economic development and poverty reduction .
but germany stood firm .
but they can also employ a range of other unconventional tools more aggressively , from asset purchases ( so-called quantitative easing ) to negative interest rates .
modeling it requires the consideration of more than just local signaling .
we can learn from the history of the nuclear age .
but the common objective for fiscal policy must be to support durable medium-term growth and job creation .
moreover , while qe has benefited holders of financial assets by boosting the prices of stocks , bonds , and real estate , it has also fueled rising inequality .
moreover , the impact of automatic stabil izers – which enable the government to mobilize more or less fiscal resources , depending on economic conditions – is more powerful in western europe than in most of the anglo-saxon countries .
this means that at some point large-scale , persistent steril ized foreign-exchange intervention – amounting to several percentage points of gdp – would satisfy the additional demand for emerging-market assets and stop the inflows , even if interest-rate differentials remain .
most importantly , they must comprehend the ultimate paradox that each of these principles highlights : globalization works best when it is not pushed too far .
the most remarkable media story of 2017 may have been how trump inadvertently made newspapers great again .
these two features reinforce and compound each other .
the top- ranked countries , where children are best off , are the social democracies of western europe .
( but , even here , my ideas and policies were not novel : in 195 5 khrushchev talked - albeit in a very different context - about uniting two german ys . )
new york , the d ada capital
i often look at new york ’ s architecture as if looking at an art book .
but , having watched the first acts of this play so many times , i am not counting on them to change the plot .
us president donald trump has based his entire middle east strategy on saudi arabia ’ s fears not just of isis , but also of iran .
the us obviously would be best served by encouraging the third of these scenarios and discouraging the first two .
but in american politics , surprisingly , there has been progress .
silicon valley is thriving .
and ma qu ila ( assembly and re- export ) activities are much spar s er than in el salvador or the dominic an republic , let alone mexico .
populism , unlike , say , liberalism or marxism , is not a coherent body of distinct political ideas .
finally , the move toward open data serves a variety of socially desirable ends , ranging from the re use of publicly funded research to support work on poverty , inclusion , or discrimination , to the disclosure by corporations such as ni ke of their supply- chain data and environmental impact .
the department of petroleum resources ( d pr ) , the regulatory agency for the oil industry , has dismissed these claims , v owing to impose hefty fines on companies that fl out the deadline .
and now ukraine ’ s fu g itive ex- president , viktor yanukovych , is reported to have taken refuge there as well .
none of this would have been possible without shev ard nad ze ’ s decades-long career of c unning , yet brave , political triang ulation .
ev ita and putin also share a stre ak of pe tt iness .
but it also shows that china ’ s long march toward global integration remains unfinished .
the man who now holds himself up as civilization ’ s last bulwark against the islamic state is also the last man who wants to see it eliminated .
but how much harder would brexit have been had the united kingdom adopted the euro back in 2000 ?
it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy whether britain is an eu member or simply in the wto .
yet what stands out is how little the us has learned from the past .
finally , the widely assumed correlation between monetary policy and currency values does not stand up to empirical examination .
as societies become richer , individuals can afford to stop worrying about food and sanitation , and to start worrying about the environment .
depending on how it ends , we will know whether iraq emerges as a multi- sectarian state or a set of sectarian and ethnic enclaves .
this was almost completely unexpected , as the prevailing view was that financial markets are self- correcting .
china ’ s non financial debt has risen from 150 % of gdp in 2008 to 2 55 % today , with two-thirds of the increase concentrated in the corporate sector , largely state-owned enterprises ( soes ) .
this is a serious challenge , especially in electoral democracies ; but policymakers from around the world can come together to leverage their investments and those undertaken by the private sector .
the eu ’ s consumption of natural gas does not justify building a 55 bc m pipeline .
no country can deliver long-term prosperity to its people on its own .
in syria , 80 % of the population is unable to meet its basic needs .
indonesia ’ s president su sil o bam bang y ud ho y on o has perhaps been the most assertive .
it is of course possible or even probable that such assurances would not lead to any meaningful dimin ution in chinese support for north korea .
yet , on january 1 , north korean leader kim jong-un called for better relations with the south , before agreeing to participate in the olympics .
but it ’ s time to get real .
north korea is now the nin th state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india , and pakistan .
but for any of these instruments to have an impact , they must be used in concert and with precision in tone and substance – a quality of statecraft that the trump administration has been slow to master .
given the risk implied by a military solution , more robust economic and political pressure remains the international community ’ s best bet for def using the north korean nuclear threat , whether by compelling the kim regime to abandon its program or by triggering that regime ’ s collapse .
people can negotiate over conflicting interests , but not over matters that are considered holy .
of course , such a scenario is , in many ways , the stuff of f ancy .
if two countries agree to mutual defense , they need to ensure that their cooperation is practiced and perf ected .
the north ’ s latest ic b m test has transformed the theater of diplomacy and war in asia , and possibly the world , as it implies a level of nuclear risk witnessed only once before , with the soviet union in 1962 .
since the end of the korean war in 1953 , a us military presence has helped deter a north korean attack on the south , while the communist north has deterred the us as well : its massive artillery deployments along the demilitar ized zone dividing the peninsula could deva state south korea ’ s capital , seoul , with its ten million people , in retaliation for any us attack .
the fact that china ended up winning more gold medals than any other country undoubtedly heightened national pride .
but the north ’ s prior threat to resume work at the facilities suggests that this process may be fit ful .
more fundamentally , no one should think that north korea ’ s totalitarian communist system can be changed overnight .
how to negotiate with north korea
and again , in the winter of 195 0- 1951 , chinese communist party chairman mao zedong intervened in the korean war when the us army crossed the 3 8th parallel and advanced toward china ’ s border .
and , at a minimum , it could break today ’ s diplomatic stalemate and give the parties involved more reason to refrain from further provocations .
such talks , to put it mil dly , could take time .
no safe havens for tax evasion . no safe havens for money laundering and terrorism financing , and no safe havens for “ cozy financial regulation . ”
no time for a trade war
that is why it has become so difficult for small and medium- sized companies to get new loans or to refinance existing loans .
the common expression in france that great rivers are created out of tiny streams captures the sort of strategy for countering global warming through sustainable development that i believe could be effective .
the us is still a long way from that goal .
formal legal bankruptcy regimes for individuals and firms have evolved over time to accomplish this .
nowadays , both advanced economies ( like the united states , where unlimited financing of elected officials by financially powerful business interests is simply leg alized corruption ) and emerging markets ( where oligarchs often dominate the economy and the political system ) seem to be run for the few .
that is why economic growth in emerging markets must be cohesive and reduce inequality .
so , unless macro- pr u works as planned , policymakers are dam ned if they do and dam ned if they don ’ t .
shor ter - and longer-term bond yields in core and periphery countries – and spreads in the periphery – may decline further , lowering the cost of capital for the public and private sectors .
now for an arab economic revolution
it is also why we are creating a new global impact vulnerability alert system , giving us real-time data and analysis on socio- economic conditions around the world .
the founding idea of the eu was that relations between states should be governed by rules , not raw power .
that explains why efforts to reduce nuclear arsenals in western europe have come to a halt .
for iran ’ s enemies , the message of the framework agreement is clear : protect your own vital interests , rather than waiting for the us .
madrid – us president barack obama ’ s recent visit to hiroshima was no typical diplomatic stop .
third , governments must regularly review security systems at nuclear facilities .
a nuclear vigil ante could apply force with impunity .
the 1961 revolt of the generals in french algeria , which placed a nuclear test device in the sahara at risk , produced no dangerous incidents .
and they need supportive spaces where they can h one these skills , build networks , and obtain support .
although obama is likely to give priority in his diplomacy to the wars in iraq and afghanistan , he can not take the asia-pacific region ’ s stability for granted .
most importantly , a greater focus on up keep and restoration of the le ve es could have spared the city entirely .
obama and the rise of the rest
low-cost gener ics have made it possible to treat tens of millions of hiv/aids patients in the developing world .
and , though there is no shortage of candidates lining up to succeed him in 2016 , one might wonder , after his experience , why anyone would want the job .
the ce a report provides a useful prim er on the issues and data .
a new sunni -led state ?
to be sure , much remains to be done .
it is their show , and so it should be .
berkeley – on july 10 , one very important desc end ant of black africa will make a triumph ant return to the mother land .
moreover , obama will address questions of democracy and respect for human rights in his live telev ised address to the cuban public .
more recently , he welcomed russian president vladimir putin to new delhi and signed a large number of trade deals and orders to import russian nuclear reactors .
in addition , though studies suggest that the short-term economic benefits of immigration are relatively small , and that unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled immigrants can be important to particular sectors – and to long-term growth .
churchill ’ s writ ings may be biased , but they offer remarkable inside information and details that are not readily infer red from mem os and br iefs , which usually are incomplete and guarded in style .
so asians are keen to hear obama ’ s thoughts about a new or renewed international system , and hope that his vision of a new global order will incorporate the rising countries of asia as america ’ s partners .
deficits have to fall within a time horizon of 5-10 years .
we really do need to ask whether obama is trying to play a china card to shift the electoral scales in his favor .
furthermore , obama ’ s embrace of israel during his visit has undermined america ’ s role as an honest broker in future negotiations – and no credible candidate has sur faced to fill the position .
what is it about israel that reduces america ’ s president to j ell - o ?
but if the us has been unable to involve pakistan in resolving the afghanistan conflict , that failure simply reflects america ’ s refusal to give the pakistanis what they wanted : a shift in the regional balance of power at the expense of india .
as in a ven n di agr am , obama is placing the us at that central point where all the different el li p ses overlap .
but , rather than keeping an eye on that ball , the united states wasted the first decade of this century mired in wars in iraq and afghanistan .
the aj a embodied some of what s per ling describes in his book : subsidies for hiring , wage insurance , and job training , as well as support for education and early learning .
the non- partisan congressional budget office ( cbo ) also found that most of the aj a ’ s policies ranked high in budgetary effectiveness , measured by the number of jobs created in 201 2- 2013 per dollar of budgetary cost .
companies started using former presidents to boost their brands in the 1970s , and the practice became starkly visible after ronald reagan accepted $ 2 million from a japanese company to deliver two lectures .
economics does not have an ideology , he re tor ted .
rules and regulations in most states protect the two parties that have held sway in us politics for more than a century .
together with a su ite of sustainable development goals , these agreements will serve as crucial road signs indicating the path to be followed by the world ’ s national economies over the next 15 years and beyond .
what should the method ology be ?
at the same time , the uk parliament has approved stringent new measures to reduce carbon emissions by 2020 , with the biggest co2 cuts by far to come from an increase of more than 800 % in offshore wind power over the next seven years .
this is an unprecedented degree of financial concentration .
one can hope that his confidence is justified .
it is far too early to assess the ecological damage and economic losses to fisheries and tourism from the deep water horizon spill .
this pressure is precisely what drove oil prices so low in december and january .
every global recession since 1970 has been preceded by at least a doubling of the oil price , and every time the oil price has fallen by half and stayed down for six months or so , a major acceleration of global growth has followed .
the low price of oil is good news for the united states economy , because it implies higher real incomes for american consumers .
i was about to be interviewed by the cn bc reporter steve se dg w ick , to whom i said , “ that would be a first .
again , higher prices will r ation global oil demand , but only after a period of economic pain in some regions around the world .
countries in most developing regions , such as latin america , north africa , the middle east , and much of asia , may be able to absorb their armies of potential workers into productive employment and benefit appreci ably from the ensuing economic boost .
the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries with a combined annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or about 40 % of global gdp .
the good news is that its power is only just being realized .
past performance is also important : the vis ibility and prestige of a sport increases after olympic success , as does funding .
but this is not a valid reason to become a host city ; it is merely a con sol ation prize .
global bi polarity had not yet vanished .
indeed , by putting a floor on the price of sovereign debt and any accompanying inflation , central-bank intervention would reduce the real value of the debt and facilitate repayment .
the motivations of those who advocate a banking union differ markedly .
the argument is strong for providing stimulus through increased government expenditures rather than relying on , say , tax cuts , because panicked consumers might save the money instead of spending it .
indeed , japanese public- opinion surveys also reveal a marked decline in favorable views of china .
nowadays , there is both too much and too little europe , or , to put it differently , too many european countries are represented in the world ’ s premier forums , with too many voices .
so far , the biggest winners from this shift have been educated and skilled professionals in the advanced economies .
fourth , every company both depends on and affects the societies in which it functions .
that makes it a critical tool for safeguarding human rights on the internet and beyond .
when production peaked , the bottom fell out of the market , because opec members were forced to enter into direct price competition with one another .
pictures ?
this explains why many open economies today are failing to adapt to new technologies and trade patterns .
open- source pharmaceuticals ?
governments must study these activities and their consequences the same way they study transnational criminal or terrorist organizations .
on july 9 , after walking for 25 days from the capital , ankara , turkey ’ s main opposition leader , kem al k ili ç dar o ğ lu , urged supporters to resist the decline in democratic freedoms .
in response , the eu could have the european court of human rights investigate hungary ’ s violations of eu rules , or an eu- level prosecutor could bring civil or criminal actions against hungary ’ s misuse of eu funds .
along with rising interdependence and economic opportunity , however , came vulnerability and insecurity .
these are just a few of the more popular affirm ations of our common humanity to be found on online social networks and , often enough , in offline settings as well .
here are a few lines of the kind of poe try that al qaeda uses :
osborne believed , or appeared to believe , that austerity would speed up economic recovery , by restoring confidence in government finance .
nowhere is this more apparent than in analyses of emerging economies ’ prospects .
think of the eurozone as a selective club .
corrections from the “ elitist ” mainstream media are dismissed as enemy propaganda .
if public awareness of the current problems stimul ates politicians to find a solution that works , better drugs and better drug use will be achievable .
that difference probably has been narrowed since then .
the implication is that growth is unacceptably low relative to potential and that more can be done to lift it , especially given that some major economies are flir ting with deflation .
there is an urgent need to change government policies so that providing services for people with mental disabilities in the community is the norm rather than the exception .
with a weaker currency , the country will benefit from an increase in export competitiveness that could offset those incremental losses and the transi ent investment weakness that is likely to arise .
experience has taught me that a country ’ s schools are the key to its success and prosperity .
a third of them have said that they won ’ t vote for her .
they shield countries from frequent and unsettling volatility , be it economic , political , or social , and they reduce the risk of costly shocks .
i believe that , as the digital revolution and artificial intelligence restructure larger segments of economic activity , overall productivity growth may accelerate again , leading to higher expected returns and , therefore , more investment and faster growth .
meanwhile , international bodies , including the international monetary fund and the g-20 , encouraged struggling countries to implement loose fiscal policies , claiming that they were needed to overcome the crisis .
as with other innovations – such as mobile phones , e- books , digital photo graphy and music , and fl at- screen telev is ions – large-scale deployment will occur when the new technologies reach the market tipping point , when their value to consumers exceeds the costs to businesses of supplying them .
pacific fisheries ministers are hoping to raise revenue even more by working with the nature conserv ancy to co- implement a system similar to one used in western al aska , where the community development quota program ( cd q ) has helped poor communities generate income by investing in fisher i es- related businesses .
first , it must establish an independent commission to determine who was responsible for bhutto ’ s murder .
in exchange for funding , the imf demanded huge increases in tax rates on petroleum products , as well as hikes in energy prices .
in other words , they seek the help of afghanistan and the us to fight the pakistani taliban while un fl in chin g ly aiding the afghan taliban , which has been killing afghan and nato troops .
indeed , the us effort merely widened the divide on security issues within pakistan i – a situation that serves no one ’ s interests .
the lawyers marched , sang , d anced , and exchanged their brief cases for signs and , occasionally , eggs and stones .
my pledge is being turned into action .
only a concerted law-enforcement effort , with the full support of the intelligence services , can succeed in the pakistani heartland .
the alliance in the fight against terrorism between pakistani president general pervez musharraf and the united states is imperative not only for america , but for pakist an- a muslim-majority nation whose social fabric is being torn apart by milit ancy and lawlessness .
but the most important questions are these : will the face of the enemy become clear ?
near tel aviv , in ad joining j aff a , a competing militia under hassan sal am eh , took control .
even before arafat ’ s death , abbas argued that the use of force by militants weakens the palestinian negotiating position .
israel , however , has never considered ce ding jerusalem to palestine .
the question , of course , is whether that hope is warranted .
instead , the repudiation of secrecy should resemble a truth and reconciliation process , with wrong do ers providing a full public account of their behavior , perhaps accompanied by testimony from victims .
the atmosphere is stil ted and mu ff led , with workers moving around in silence and guards everywhere .
the paris agreement is a spraw ling , rolling , overlapping set of national commitments brought about by a broad conglomer ation of parties and stakeholders . it is not law .
but with great power comes greater responsibility , and companies continue to find it difficult to grapple with this .
of course , we must be re alists .
achieving it will require overcoming serious political challenges , reflected in the fact that some are advocating solutions that will end up doing more harm than good .
second , the agreement includes a process of future assessment and revision of targets .
road transport and aviation , which currently rely almost entirely on liquid fossil fuels , account for 30 % of total energy consumption .
rather than establishing an enforcement mechanism to keep countries on track to meeting their targets , the agreement relies on a “ facilit ative dialogue ” on collective progress to sustain momentum .
the climate ’ s point of no return
we might call the first path “ deep decarbonization , ” meaning steps to 2030 that prepare the way for much deeper steps after that .
the sc ars of colonialism are fresh er in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’ s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the extreme right is cre sting in opinion polls .
the disease strikes 2 % of those over age 65 , and 5-10 % of cases occur in people under 50 .
once in power , they simply make for bad government .
this presents a number of obstacles .
all that is needed to ensure that assistance – from seed subsidies to immunization – reaches those who need it most , regardless of where they live in the country , is a strong commitment from nigeria ’ s leaders to build more effective and transparent government agencies .
we see this in movements such as earth day and occupy wall street .
it was this fear that led , from the 1980s on wards , to the piecemeal abandonment of the policy system of the mixed economy – indeed , to the dismantling of the mixed economy itself .
but in meetings with investigating agencies , the cp j was told that av ak ov has limited access to investigation files , and that his statements are un supported by evidence .
europe appears to be more stuck than ever .
kim ’ s hope must be that , by showing off his nuclear arsenal , he can bully the us , japan , and south korea into helping him to resolve some of his regime ’ s domestic crises .
the us has been behind the curve from the moment the turmoil sparked , trying to play catch up as two authoritarian governments were toppled by popular protest and more regimes try to cling to power as long as they can .
a united front of israelis and palestinians could push the iranian people , who until recently maintained good relations with the jewish state , to rebel against the folly that seems to have taken hold of their leaders .
this month , the talks moved to ha vana , cuba , where they will be held until their conclusion .
by 2019 , total military spending is projected to be $ 8. 2 trillion , exceeding by $ 2 trillion the budge ted outlays for all non- mandatory budget spending .
moreover , health workers and public-health officials could catch far more cases of tb in children simply by paying closer attention to their symptoms .
the longer that older workers remain in the labor force , the more exposed they are to technological unemployment .
to restore fairness , the government should follow the private sector ’ s lead and link politicians ’ pensions to their performance .
the perils of fed gradu alism
while un peacekeepers are funded by assessed contributions levied on member countries , the millions of children displaced by crises have no guarantee that anyone will fund their schooling .
if serious ethical lap ses occur , many consumers will no longer use the service , regardless of how promising the business model is .
it is easy for business to want government just to get out of the way , and for the media to point fingers and sens ation alize events without much depth of analysis – or even , sometimes , grasp of reality .
traditional hierarch ies routinely cultivate ec centr ics as harm less ador n ments of a rigid order .
a country subject to rocket attacks from across its border has a right to defend itself , even if its own actions can be constr ued as having provoked the attacks , and the attacks themselves are relatively ineffective .
a stat ue for stalin ?
last may , in a speech at the national defense university , obama defended america ’ s use of drones .
maybe that is because some disciplines are failing to communicate to outsiders what they do and why it matters .
but , having seen this condition overtake my mother and my a unt – both vibrant , intelligent women , who were reduced to lying , un responsive , in a bed for months or ( in my a unt ’ s case ) years – it seems to me entirely accurate .
months later , while still in somalia , he was killed in an american drone attack .
imagine that he had stopped to ask himself what would make him happier .
in spain and portugal , for example , where unemployment is very high , populist parties barely have a footh old .
this would reduce their incentive to migrate and , in cases where people still aspire to reach europe , facilitate a more orderly process .
this self-inflicted political wound is extremely dangerous .
equally remarkable is the history of a new multiple s cler osis ( ms ) treatment , called di meth y l fum ar ate . under the brand name tec fid era , this compound generates some $ 3 billion in annual revenue , and has helped many patients manage a crippling disease .
simul ations show that meg af un ds will not work for all classes of drugs in all therapeutic areas .
ultimately , the fairer , freer , and richer eurozone that would emerge is in germany ’ s interest , too .
but eu rules on national bank resolution will not yet be in force , while the eurozone ’ s single resolution mechanism will be initiated only in 2015 .
that is a lesson that all of us must learn .
we declare , as if there can be no doubt , that friction impedes the motion between two bodies , and we invoke sophisticated mic ros cop ic models that show how the sol es of running shoes bind to a track .
there is no federal legislation at all on the welfare of farm animals – and very little state legislation , either .
two decades ago , judic ious european politicians looked for a “ third way , ” steering a z ig z ag course between the importance of market mechanisms and that of other social priorities , according to which the market needed to be directed .
once within the roman empire , it found an environment transformed by human civilization , along with massive colonies of ro d ents f att ened on the ancient world ’ s ubiquitous gran aries .
and back in europe , char l es- é dou ard je ann er et , an architect and design er known as le cor bu si er , was ske t ching visions of utopian cities that seam lessly envelop ed the natural world .
how to pay for the far-reaching reform that will be required ?
and the figure keeps growing ; by 2050 , it could be four times higher .
but this argument is flawed : bio- plastics are very expensive and energy-intensive to produce , and still contain large amounts of material derived from oil .
nonetheless , informal markets in developing countries provide a vast field for experimentation to transform a patch work of jobs into a steady upward path for workers .
the danger is that much of what the eu rightly pushed for during the good times could hasten its unraveling now , during the current inter reg n um .
when low-income borrowers took out a loan to buy their homes – often 100 % of the purchase price – they typically could use the home as collateral without warran ting the repayment with additional wealth or even their income .
the diss on ance is that equally large majorities also describe poland ’ s economic situation and the “ direction in which the country is moving ” as either “ bad ” or “ very bad . ”
but mac ier e w icz is not the only pis official under a russian cloud .
some eastern european countries have likewise prohibited holocaust denial .
budapest – after some delay , poland ’ s government , controlled by the law and justice ( pis ) party , has finally responded to concerns raised by the european commission about its legislative attack on judicial independence .
according to the book ’ s tally of nine german- occupied polish coun ties , two-thirds of the 250,000 jews who escaped during the nazis ’ “ liquid ation ” of jewish ghet tos in 194 2 had been killed by 1945 , most of them by poles or with polish participation .
sevent y- two years after winston churchill declared that an “ iron curtain ” was des cen ding across eastern europe , a new sort of border is being erected – a curtain of shame .
this suggests that while poles may not agree with the pis ’ s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for free courts – or for liberal- democratic principles generally .
how far will the twins push their idea ?
poland , which is not yet part of the eurozone , sees no alternative to the eu .
someone who wants to blame the exchange rate for india ’ s export slowdown can look at the index from the low point of september 2013 and argue that it has appreciated 20 % ( based on the imf measure ) .
at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already have been lost .
we now have abundant evidence linking the perception of economic insecurity in the west with anti- elite sentiment , political radicalization , and attacks on minorities .
as the leader of a political party , the central idea for me nowadays is to empower individuals .
hence , such a move would probably be enough to restore much of the akp ’ s lost support and to calm opponents who fear that their personal freedoms will continue to erode under its governance .
i know , because i regularly see the deadly consequences of getting facts wrong .
the french who started radical right-wing movements like action franç aise at the end of the nineteenth century were still smar ting from defeat in the franco- pr us sian war of 18 71 .
without it , there is always the danger of the birth of what ye ats called the “ rough be ast ” sl ou ching toward beth leh em .
so , the “ cultural backlash ” hypothesis seems to be more compelling than the “ economic insecurity ” hypothesis .
if future generations feel themselves bound by such provisions , they are , ben tham thinks , enslav ed by long- dead tyr ants .
rather , his goal is to highlight the challenges associated with fostering or maintaining these three institutional arrangements , partly or fully .
during the cold war , the west ’ s certainty that it occupied the moral high ground inspired confidence in both word and de ed .
north carolina 's coast lands , like coastal areas around the world , are threatened by rising sea levels caused by human-induced climate change .
the bottom line is that with the new commission members focused on their domestic political agendas , dur ao barroso 's team will do less effectively what the commission used to do well .
nowhere is this more evident than in the oil markets , where prices have collapsed , with both br ent and crude now hovering around the $ 30- per- barrel level .
but why single out economics ?
researchers have long used techniques like periodic household surveys to collect data .
and despite much talk about “ make in india , ” one of prime minister narendra modi ’ s catch ph r ases , the country shows little indication of rapid industrialization .
from what we can sur mis e from this case – and many others like it – they are the semi- urban ized products of a highly conventional rural society where the roles of men , and especially women , are tightly regulated .
he asked her if she wanted to leave seven orph ans .
before card inal rat z inger became pope ben edict x vi , he gave an interview in which he depl ored the “ industrial use of cre atures ” such as hens living “ so packed together that they become just caric atures of birds . ”
carbon-dioxide emissions from forest clearing and burning account for nearly 10 % of global emissions .
as curious as such gestures are in an institution that thr ives on imag ery , they are symbolic fr ills .
as new york university ’ s bar net t ru bin , an expert on afghan society , has put it : “ afghanistan can not be stabilized while the most dynamic sector of its economy is illegal , nor if more than half of its economy is destroyed . ”
they no longer believe that the future will bring them material improvement and that their children will have a better life than their own .
by over- spending on public pensions to buy off voters in the short term , both countries ’ governments have severely limited their ability to invest in education and scientific research .
the populist wave , they reassured themselves , had cre sted .
moreover , the stre et- level emotions that contributed to leave ’ s victory were not rooted in income inequality or “ the 1 % ” : alienated poor voters directed their anger at other alienated poor people – particularly immigrants – not at the rich . the mayor of london ’ s office reported a 64 % increase in hate crimes in the six weeks after the referendum , compared to the six weeks before it .
and a new deal – one that correc ts the eu ’ s yawning democratic deficit and puts an end to self-defeating austerity policies – is precisely what will save europe today .
wh ich ever candidate gets one more vote than the others becomes president .
in the netherlands , a newly rich class of real-estate mo gul s backed the right-wing populist p im for tu yn and his cru der successor , geert wilders .
it was also the argument william j en nings br yan made during his 18 96 presidential campaign , when he promised easier money to his core constituency : mid western farmers who had been hit hard by high interest rates and declining commodity prices .
the new york times identified a major indicator of trump- leaning districts : a white- majority working-class population whose livelihoods had been negatively affected throughout the decades in which the us economy shed manufacturing capacity .
that is what happened after 2008 .
morales ’ election in bolivia – where indigenous groups are estimated to comprise around 55 % of the population and mix ed- race people account for another 30 % – should be viewed against this historical backdrop .
that means a country where government institutions quietly do their work , presidents neither threaten citizens nor give three- hour speeches that television stations are forced to carry , people can walk down the street without fear , and the economy is not per enn ially tee tering on the brink of financial collapse .
targets must be clearly defined , measurable , and ac tion able , and they must be supported by effective monitoring , evaluation , and shared frameworks of accountability .
stanford – in this , the 40 0th year since william sha kes pe are ’ s death , the united kingdom faces an existential question : to be or not to be “ european . ”
in fact , the referendum may have even prompted eu countries – including those with no is y euroskeptic parties , such as denmark and sweden – to close ranks in support of eu membership .
indeed , in the heady hour after the brexit referendum polls closed on june 23 , the british pound initially traded above a rate of £ 1.5 /  $ 1 .
in poland , hungary , and the czech republic , we will now witness a period of unab ashed populism .
instead , each comes from the world of academia ( both hold doc tor ates in mathematics ) .
but relentless attempts at accuracy easily result in noise .
the estimated 3 30 million working women who lived below the poverty line in 2008-2009 accounted for roughly 60 % of the 5 50 million working poor worldwide .
there always was something mag ical about this kind of icon o cl asm , which rests on the belief that sm ashing an image will somehow solve the problems associated with it .
to be sure , investments in ch ws should not come at the expense of critical public-health measures to slow the spread of ebola or support for frontline clinics .
berkeley – it is almost impossible to assess the progress of the united states economy over the past four decades without feeling disappointed .
in order to provide a more balanced perspective on the microfinance industry compared to other kinds of financial-services providers , mfis need to do more to measure and explain their social and economic value .
but although this group includes many tech lum in aries and attracts significant funding , its academic output has so far failed to prove their calculus convinc ingly .
int el is charged with “ ab using ” its dominant market position by so called “ predatory pricing ” ( selling below cost ) and offering substantial reb ates to retain market share and undermine its arch - rival advanced micro devices .
a state ’ s monopoly on the use of force is justified if citizens can rely on it to ensure their security .
instead , the greek economy will shrink by 6 % .
so does engineering a moderate rate of inflation by depreci ating the dollar against the renminbi .
to be sure , this is a dangerous product , and it did cause many families to fall into an unsustainable debt trap .
as he looks ahead to the verdict of history , he seems to realize that hard power alone will not consolidate his reputation , but he remains hostage to incidents and accidents that could drive even his best- laid plans off course .
never heard of him .
for the sake of democracy , we must take action to solidi fy basic norms of decency and transparency in vital election campaigns .
and we are going to deliver it . ”
so , establishing standards and ethical ground rules is ultimately a job for the entire international community , though the r & d hubs should take the lead .
we can thus comprehend why children born into such circumstances have more problems in school , are more likely to commit crimes , and are more prone to heart disease , diabetes , and a host of other physical and mental illnesses later in life .
so it seems a good time to update the analysis i presented in january 2015 .
the bond market ’ s complacency about us interest rates and inflation may be surprising – and in my view it will turn out to be an expensive mistake at some point – but it is a fact .
to be sure , winning a vote , while never straightforward , is the easy part .
the ongoing conflict in syria , in particular , has already displaced some five million people .
but the gcc economies are also rife with structural problems that short-term economic packages will not address – bloated public sectors , heavy dependence on imported labor , and endemic unemployment , especially among young people , who make up a disproportionately large share of the population .
the market is thus rife with distortions . it is accordingly not surprising that in the area of health , the patent system , with all of its distortions , has failed in so many ways .
it is a primary driver of gdp growth ( especially in countries where labor-force growth is slowing ) and income gains .
carbon- fi ber compos ites are making cars and air planes both more resistant and ligh ter , reducing their fuel consumption .
gordon argues that all of the epo ch al advances , from running water and electricity to the internal combustion and j et engines , have been made .
by working with governments , international organizations , and civil society , companies are addressing major challenges like social integration , and creating the necessary systems to provide education and health care to those who need it most .
this is a myth .
some states have established techn ic al- assistance offices primarily to help small and medium-size companies overcome this gap .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’ s democratic institutions are clearly under strain .
that finding provided a basis for the obama administration ’ s new au to- emissions standards and clean power plan , which were established to help america meet its commitments under the 2015 paris climate agreement .
this requires placing some sand in the whe els of globalization .
and yet the german government estimates that the country will face a shortfall of two million skilled workers by 2020 .
welcome back to the pre- antibiotic era !
they need to understand much better how to prioritize road , rail , power , and port investments ; how to make investments environmentally sustainable by moving to a low-carbon energy system ; how to train young workers for decent jobs , not only low-wage service- sector employment ; and how to build social capital , in an age when there is little trust and considerable corruption .
but the tentative agreement between cyprus and the troika ( the european commission , the international monetary fund , and the european central bank ) probably means that the worst has been avoided .
this makes sense : of the 2 6 6,000 women who die from cervical cancer every year – an average of one every two minutes – 85 % are in developing countries .
arrangements must be made to super v ise access to genetic sequ ences in a way that ensures fair and equitable sharing of benefits from their use .
this includes damage to critical systems like the electricity grid and the information , communication , and transport networks that constitute the platform on which modern economies run .
in september , albania became the 5 6 th country to sign the declaration , and the alban ian government has now publicly committed to protecting education during periods of armed conflict .
what makes a populist like donald trump dangerous is not his specific proposals on trade .
other countries would retaliate by imposing tariffs of their own , fl att ening us exports .
american workers and voters are more anxious about job security and more willing to blame anything for job insecurity because they have seen the most profound deterioration in labor market conditions in the memory of anyone younger than e ight y- five .
many other components of marine biodiversity – especially cor als , marine mam m als , se ab ir ds , and tur t les – are also struggling to withstand human pressures .
but 2016 offers plenty of opportunities for correction , in areas ranging from trade to migration .
last month , former ok la hom a attorney general scott pr u it t was confirmed as director of the environmental protection agency .
other changes undermine the validity of existing categories .
princeton – in contr asting decisions last month , a united states court of appeals struck down a us food and drug administration requirement that cigarettes be sold in p acks with graphic health warnings , while australia ’ s highest court upheld a law that goes much further .
the economic and social returns decline and money dr ies up , setting the stage for a debt crisis .
the government , which bor e the burden of a large part of its development , sees little or no return .
no doubt that proportion has only increased in the years since .
likewise , for children and adults alike , there is real value in , say , public libr aries – secular and free gathering spaces that offer universal access to learning and , increasingly , provide a gateway to digital services .
and , indeed , once candidates have completed the training , lear n up helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already includes several large companies .
publication is a moral imperative .
hence , the recent evolution of puerto ric an bond prices reflects an expectation that the additional funds will go not to puerto ric ans still suffering from the devastating effects of mar ia , but rather to the commonwealth ’ s creditors .
washington , dc – president donald trump and the us congress are coming under mounting pressure to increase assistance to puerto rico .
nationally , we need to experiment with new mechanisms for policymaking and implementation , re connecting democratic institutions to citizens and emerging networks of civil society .
indeed , so far , none of them has more than 2 % popular support .
russian stores were filled with t- shir ts embl az oned with his face alongside ph r ases like “ thanks for the crimea ” and “ the polit est of people . ”
europe versus gazprom
don ’ t worry , russia ’ s oligarchs are not starving , but the fortunes of many of them have collapsed .
there are now 20,000 syrian refugees camp ed out in the desert awaiting admission to jordan .
putin ’ s political genius is to have recognized this .
currently , russia ’ s greatest economic concern is growing inflationary pressure , driven especially by food prices .
putin has assembled competing teams of economists to draft policy proposals for the coming years , but few observers expect genuine reforms to follow .
particularly dam ning , trans crip ts of sec hin ’ s secret record ings of his conversation with ul yuk a ev – part of a sting operation in which sec hin played a leading role – were disclosed in september .
she even declared the voting process “ more transparent ” than in the past , as if she would know .
the restaurant had many of the traits found in ethnic restaurants everywhere .
in the meantime , infrastructure is crumbling even within the vital extr active industry , while manufacturing is internationally uncompetitive .
on the contrary , the “ double terror ” induced by terrorism and counter-terrorism distr acts public attention from those problems that , as some of us still remember , produced terrorism .
where is nato ’ s front line ?
a huge russian gar ris on remains deployed in trans d ne ister , where it rules in collaboration with local gangs .
initially , he acted as an able diplomat and accommod ator , but since his munich speech , putin has begun uniting the west against russia .
last year , putin re organized the r ia nov os ti news agency , firing 40 % of its staff , including its relatively independent management .
the commission is proposing to increase budgetary appropri ations to 1. 24 % of the eu ’ s combined gross national income .
hezbollah ’ s existence as a mini- state in southern lebanon is a fl agr ant violation of lebanese sovereignty .
qatar is the home of the al jazeera satellite television channel and education city , a district outside of doha that accommod ates schools , universities , and research centers .
it has been an aggressive and risky foreign policy , but al than i clearly believes that he can fill a regional leadership vacuum .
of course , though the internet can facilitate competition , forcing companies of all sizes to raise their game , building such a tru st- based system is no easy feat .
the current downturn , already a half-decade long , will not end any time soon .
as a result , total net exports from the eurozone rose less than € 3 billion ( $ 3.2 billion ) between september 2014 and september 2015 – a negligible amount in an € 11 trillion economy .
hedge funds , pension funds , and sovereign wealth funds are stating that they are looking closely at c - su ite remuner ation , and that it is time to take reform seriously .
trips , the intellectual property provisions of the uruguay round , were designed to reduce access to generic medicines – and they succeeded .
armed with the promise of powerful new compu ter- driven technology , scientific attention is becoming riv eted to that remaining 0.1 % of genetic difference .
within 20 years , gdp increased four- fold , while exports increased more than ten- fold .
western and many arab governments employ hundreds of people to dissu ade would-be radicals , without a clear understanding of the psychological needs these ideologies serve .
but , though the sdgs will thus stand on solid legal ground , that ground must be developed further .
disillusioned anc members can be strong allies for ramaphosa ’ s reform attempts ; they were powerful enough to elect him over zuma ’ s preferred candidate , his ex- wife and former african union commission chair n kos az ana d lam in i- zuma .
another approach would be to unleash the liability system .
they explored how people make choices and assess probabilities , and uncovered basic errors that are typical in decision-making .
the cn h therefore became cheaper than the c ny .
moreover , in 2006 , 57 % of european citizens declared themselves ready to move abroad for professional reasons .
as a result , municipal governments may be unwilling to grant permits to expand supply .
instead , after a us withdrawal , the country might fall apart , possibly leading to “ balk anization ” of the middle east , with extremely dangerous consequences for the whole region .
on the other hand , israel was rewarded twice : by receiving us assurances of significant palestinian concessions , and by being relieved from paying a price in return for these concessions .
in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year .
the key is to be keynesian throughout the economic cycle : pursuing expansionary policies when growth is slow ; tightening to reduce public debt ( and thus create room for future expansion ) when activity is bu oy ant .
russia ’ s internal problems – not just economic stagnation , but also demographic decline – are of a similar scale .
paradoxically , this is not altogether il logical .
a sim ulation shows that if german wages grew at 4 % annually instead of the 1.5 % of the last decade , and if annual productivity growth in spain accelerated to 2 % ( it was close to 0.7 % in both countries ) , spain could reverse the un it- labor- cost differential that emerged with germany since 2000 in five years , with spanish wages growing at about 1.7 % per ann um .
dd t was subsequently banned for agricultural use worldwide under the 2001 stockholm convention on persistent organic pollutants , which stigm atized the chemical and effectively constituted a prohibition .
as for nato , we in russia think it should adapt and transform itself to suit the new environment .
in venezuela , such social learning will be more difficult than it was in germany .
hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has now also produced a six- point plan to address the crisis .
economic planning reflected his populist policies and foreign adventures , rather than any focus on stability and sustainable growth .
ob serving that enterprise , exploration , and creation could be engaging , even eng ros sing , and deeply grati fying , americans came to view working in businesses , from rural areas to cities , as a path to the good life .
and , in the same way , taiwan and vietnam feel that they will be the chinese giant ’ s first victims .
the silence that surrounded holocaust survivors during the immediate postwar reconstruction of europe has been replaced by gestures of contr ition and repar ation .
but , in conflicts in which no side has been defeated , the peacem aker ’ s job becomes more challenging .
but no level of effort will alter the region ’ s basic reality : borders that count for little and governments that count for only a little more .
first , i argued that while it might do local good , it would damage the rules of international relations as they were then understood .
but , when it comes to up ping equity requirements against “ risk- weighted assets , ” who is to do the weigh ting , and according to what method ology ?
we seem to be living in a version of al d ous hu x ley ’ s brave new world , where truth is drowned in a sea of ir relevance .
viewed this way , sustainable development should be re defined as “ development that meets the needs of the present while safeguarding the earth ’ s life- support system , on which the welfare of current and future generations depends . ”
for 25 years , the world has experienced a huge financial crisis every five years , each seemingly with its own cause .
national governments will also need to participate , stream lining customs controls , border management policies , and regional trade regulations .
the largest of the ten major me ans - tested programs is the food subsidy program , now called snap ( supplem ental nutrition assistance program ) .
these deaths shat ter families and communities .
indeed , for some countries , progress is at risk of slowing .
in recent months , north korean dictator kim jong-un and us president donald trump have publicly br agged about the “ size ” of their butt ons and the robu st ness of their arsenals .
some people in britain might choose to leave the eu just because they don ’ t like prime minister david cameron , who is in favor of staying in .
we must be similarly bold .
that is all the more reason for them to heed the lessons of history .
at present , the government is promoting the creation of a similar institution in the aviation sector , the new united aircraft building corporation ( u ab c ) , which includes major state and private manufacturers of fixed- wing aircraft .
the bottom line is that security- sector reform can not be undertaken in isolation from the wider process of democratic transition and national reconciliation .
the third set of reasons for the eurozone ’ s poor performance is a broader right-wing critique of the eu , centered on euro cr ats ’ penchant for stifling , innovation- inhib iting regulations .
many lives would have been saved in africa , for example , if the international community could have acted decisively and quickly .
they are bound to choose older homes in established neighborhoods that have already been connected to the many networks that make them a habitat .
likewise , the west must recognize that reconciliation in syria will be impossible without reconciliation between the sunni and shia regimes in the wider region .
eventually , of 12 million displaced syrians , one million arrived in europe .
all of this has seriously undermined european cooperation .
when should the eu ’ s a aa credit be mobilized if not at a moment when the eu is in mortal danger ?
the enduring strength of germany ’ s political center probably reflects the country ’ s remarkable economic success , which it has sustained for more than a decade , even as most of the rest of europe has faced serious challenges .
europe has the opportunity to turn today ’ s refugee crisis into a catalyst for renewal and progress .
this decision arguably tempted so many more refugees from the arab countries that soon thereafter germany was forced to impose border controls .
the shift of the arab world ’ s mainstream fundamentalist movements to democratic politics is tantamount to a repudiation of the jihadist project and of al-qaeda ’ s apocalyptic strategies .
the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) is further along , and involves 11 countries , besides the us , that collectively produce as much as 40 % of global output ; but china , crucially , is not among them .
it is notable that big tech still derives most of its revenues from its companies ’ core products – for example , the apple i phone , microsoft office , and the google search engine .
brussels – the most visible symptom of the crisis in the eurozone has been the high and variable risk premiums that its peripheral countries now must pay on their public debt .
the question is not one of aligning tax rates , which can and should be determined by competition . rather , the aim of harmonization is to make cross-border trade easier for business .
but it gave war- torn and desperately poor europeans a positive vision of a new future , something that greece and cyprus , not to mention middle eastern and north african countries , desperately need .
this would also help to leverage the inter- connectedness of the sdr ’ s roles , in order to reach critical mass quickly and have a foundation for further incremental gains .
by demanding severe punishment for those guilty of war crimes – not the pakistani army , long gone , but their local collabor ators in groups like jam a at- e- islam i , al bad ar , al sh ams , and the raz ak ar ir regul ars – the protesters are also implicitly describing the society in which they wish to live : secular , pluralist , and democratic .
the statistics say that 80 % of gaza ’ s population is dependent on un food aid .
kohl ’ s chief method to avoid mistakes was to build trust with all powers , big and small , that were relevant to germany ’ s wellbeing .
they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration , which came to fru ition a generation later .
a young man , b are headed behind a lec ter n , is speaking in honor of those who died in the holocaust .
but why did the pieces of the puzzle fall into place as they did ?
such a mon ument is also notably absent from the vic inity of the kremlin .
we have much to gain individually and as a society from sharing information with each other .
for a tigh t- knit community , reputational costs and other forms of social punishment transcend geography : not paying for goods might mean not being able to marry your children well .
the final chapter that should be added to the renegoti ated nafta is also the most delicate : human rights .
but we must also keep in mind that crisis brings with it opportunities for change .
for the department of defense , the rebalance is about helping to ensure that the us and all countries in the region continue to benefit from a secure and prosperous asia-pacific – as we have for nearly 70 years .
china 's currency has appreciated more than any of the other 60 countries that the bis covers ( apart from dysfunctional venezuela , where the figures are distorted by multiple foreign-exchange regimes ) .
capital-account liberalization and renminbi internationalization invite potentially volatile cross-border capital flows , which could , for example , trigger rapid currency appreciation .
what brought about the fund ’ s change of heart ?
if the us dollar enters into another round of revaluation , the only winners will be financial engineers .
with its large populations and fast-growing economies , it is difficult to exagger ate the region ’ s economic importance .
it inspired the that ch er- reagan political revolution , which in turn helped to propel a 25- year economic boom from 1982 onward .
in response , a former ntc member lamented that the government had “ lost a chance to finish off all of the militias , ” stating that the groups responsible are backed by qatar , and that the government did not want to interfere with their agenda .
solar power and wind power would become more competitive relative to carbon- based power without the need for government subsidies .
this is min d- bo ggling and deeply disturbing .
but ryan chose not to mention the fact that , this past february , his republican colleagues ( and four democrats ) in the senate voted to revo ke a rule requiring the social security administration to report the names of ment ally- disabled social security recipients to the national instant criminal background check system .
lacking in saving , outsize us budget deficits point to sharp deterioration on the balance-of- payment and trade fronts .
clinton accomplished this feat despite unanimous objections from every republican in the us congress .
in an analysis of recent academic research , oxford university ’ s michael de ver eu x finds that while marginal effective tax rates affect the level of business investment , the average effective rate has a much larger effect on where , internationally , investments are made .
and within the us , capital will flow from agriculture and housing to higher productivity uses in the corporate sector .
an administration of plutocr ats – most of whom gained their wealth from rent-seeking activities , rather than from productive entrepreneurship – could be expected to reward themselves .
such assumptions do not inspire confidence .
that election , however , was won by tymoshenko , who has parl ayed her return to power into a commanding lead in the polls for the coming presidential election .
but there is a general feeling that implementation has fallen short of expectations , particularly with regard to nuclear disarmament .
al qaeda in yemen has been targeted since the us s col e was bombed while in the port of ad en in 2000 .
the other top- ten ideas from our researchers are : expanding the potential for irrigation in sub-saharan africa ; developing a marke table “ pol yp ill ” for hyper tension and cardiovascular disease ; resear ching ways to introduce successful tobacco taxes in developing countries ; conducting action research – a particular approach and type of research that involves a high level of engagement between researchers and practitioners ; and improving the ability of customs offices to identify illicit transactions .
the major problem with the new credit line is that it runs the risk of und u ly dividing developing countries into two categories , with significant additional risks for the latter .
biomass is experiencing a revival , because it is considered co 2- neutral .
clearly , no single country can solve this problem .
in 2012 , bra d del ong and i argued that fiscal expansion would likely pay for itself .
accelerating the shift towards large-scale , highly mechan ized forms of agriculture will not solve the problem .
the eurozone crisis that began in 2010 was perceived by some as an elite creation that had painful consequences for the public at large .
by pursuing these strategies , president barack obama could restore america ’ s position as the engine of the global economy .
europeans have no such bond , and creating one will not be easy , especially as regional nationalist movements , like that in catalonia , push in the other direction .
today ’ s tendency to view muslim grievances in one- dimensional terms reduces political discourse to a very simplistic level .
for starters , the lag time between changes in the money supply and price movements is long , variable , and unpredictable .
the world ’ s 19 0- plus states now co- exist with a larger number of powerful non- sovereign and at least partly ( and often largely ) independent actors , ranging from corporations to non- government organizations ( ngo ’ s ) , from terrorist groups to drug cartels , from regional and global institutions to banks and private equity funds .
assuming that they are significantly better off than one ’ s own generation , how important is their absolute level of income ?
now , italians who retire on average at 6 1- 62 can expect to receive their pensions for several decades , and in some cases , for almost as many years as they worked .
the answer has nothing to do with supposed respect for democracy .
and , indeed , imports have risen sharply as well , as the rupee ’ s appreciation lowers the relative price of foreign goods : in the first half of this year , nominal merchandise imports grew by 28 % .
in order to prevent this , and to create a liberal legal framework fit for a modern democratic country , homosexuality and adul tery must be dec rim in alized , and se di tion must be approached from a far more liberal perspective .
while central banks should be in charge of maintaining adequate levels of liquidity in the system , so-called “ micro prudential ” financial regulation should independently oversee financial institutions ’ s ound ness and the protection of depositors .
on these complex issues , we want to launch a structured dialogue with all those who share responsibility for european security .
spending per student on tertiary education is just over $ 9,000 in france , slightly under $ 1 1,000 in germany , and almost $ 1 2,000 in the uk .
“ strengthening the rule of law , building state institutions , protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms ” occup ies first place in the en p action plan .
the eu , originally conceived as an instrument of solidarity , is today held together by grim necessity .
some shel tered jews -- despite their own prejudices -- simply because they saw it as their religious duty to do so .
what was supposed to be a coordinated effort to protect civilians from ruthless repression and advance a peaceful transition – the plan developed by former united nations secretary-general kofi annan – has now de generated into a proxy war between the united states and russia .
in 2006 , when annan stepped down as un secretary-general , he comm ented that in his next job , people might call him “ farmer kofi . ”
from here , they went into other automated machines , because there is more to life than cutting , after all .
in addition , venezuela ’ s central bank has defaulted on its obligation to maintain price stability by nearly quadru pling the money supply in 24 months , which has resulted in a 90 % decline in the boliv ar ’ s value on the black market and the world ’ s highest inflation rate .
what could explain generalized divergence in one period and selective convergence in another ?
piketty argues that , because the world ’ s rich countries are growing at less than 4-5 % , they are becoming more unequal .
tacit knowledge is acquired mostly through learning by doing .
others sound so obvious after they are expressed that it is hard to deny their truth .
between now and 2025 , the gdp of emerging markets could increase by a factor of 2.5 – but the number of large companies based in these regions could more than triple .
nevertheless , all players need to understand how the end of qe will affect them .
like ancient conqu er ors , who erected new tem ples on the sites where the van qu ished had their own , the destro yers of new york ’ s twin tow ers used vis ual terror to strike at the heart of their enemy ’ s value system .
protestants and catholics alike turned for support to their co- relig ion ists within the territories that would one day become germany .
many energy- rich countries fall into this category , which is why many observers speak of energy and mineral endowments as a “ curse ” rather than a benefit .
but , for better or worse , the west does not have the luxury of waiting to make sense of recent events in ukraine , simply because there is no assurance that what occurred in crimea is unique .
for example , during the 1992 us presidential campaign , ross per ot argued that rati fying the north american free trade agreement would lead to a “ giant suc king sound , ” as us jobs migrated to mexico and american workers ’ wages fell .
the concluding sentence of his review is widely quoted by his admir ers : “ that we abstract from all these stories in building our models is not because the stories are un interesting but because they may be too interesting and thereby distract us from the pervasive market forces that should be our principal concern . ”
but kenya will soon be exporting another , far more profitable kind of energy , as it t aps into a string of recently discovered oil fields in its 4 50- mil e- long section of the great rift valley , a fis sure in the earth ’ s cr ust that runs from lebanon to mozambique .
it offers opportunities to meet challenges that call on a variety of skills , both physical and mental ; but the challenges are intrinsic to the activity and do not involve beating an opponent .
since the introduction of multi drug therapy in the early 1980 ’ s , roughly 16 million people around the world have been cured .
if machines can and do become conscious , will we take their feelings into account ?
this is about global order in a stable and prosperous world .
as much as internet companies like facebook or google want to collect data about their users , there are limits to their power to do so .
the conference was about populism , and the ideolog ue was named mar c j ong en , a politician from the far-right alternative fü r deutsch land ( afd ) party with a doc tor ate in philosophy .
tokyo – the budd ha , sid d har th a g aut ama , composed no su tt a to religious hatred or racial anim us .
between 1995 and 2015 , the top 100 firms increased their market capitalization four fold , but did not even double their share of employment .
as more of china ’ s oil imports come to be priced in its domestic currency , foreign suppliers will have more renminbi- denominated accounts with which they can purchase not only chinese goods and services , but also chinese government securities and bonds .
but much must still be accomplished , by africans and with africa ’ s many friends around the world .
so it makes more sense to focus on debt net of government borrowing from the central bank .
( no jihadist organization in egypt had ever before offered its loyalty to a foreign entity . )
the world trade organization has – at last – warned that an intensified tariff war could result in a sharp decline in trade .
decisions about options and how to implement them are difficult , owing to uncertainties over hazards , benefits , and potential side effects .
a third round of quantitative easing by the us federal reserve could help commodity exporters as well , even if it does little to promote us domestic growth .
but these funds proved insufficient , prompting the european central bank to step in with unlimited guarantees for southern europe ’ s creditors , all at the expense of eurozone taxpayers .
the solutions are too technical for most news reporting aimed at the general public .
by early 2009 , the plunge in stock markets around the world reached its nad ir , and fear of a deep depression , according to the university of michigan consumer sentiment survey , was at its highest level since the second oil crisis in the early 1980 ’ s .
as such , economics is rather more like engineering than physics , more practical than spiritual .
increasing wealth taxes now , as piketty proposes , would strike many people as unfair , because it would amount to imposing a retro active levy on the work carried out to accumulate that wealth in the past – a change to the rules of the game , and its outcome , after the game is over .
for example , after a recent world health organization report warned that the fukushima nuclear disaster in japan had only slightly increased local residents ’ risk of developing certain kinds of cancers , the environmental organization green peace , deem ing the figures too low , denounced the report as “ a political statement to protect the nuclear industry . ”
what follows from this ?
london – the period since 2008 has produced a plentiful crop of recycl ed economic fall acies , mostly falling from the li ps of political leaders .
i learned quite a lot .
from this point of view , everyone stands to benefit from curriculum reform .
beyond this , the most dramatic impact of shale oil and gas on the economy has been the fall in energy prices .
either way , nationalist politicians enjoy the huge advantage of not requiring a practical program : all good things will flow from sovereignty .
yet economists , not notic ing that their logic is less applicable to rich countries , continue trying to extend it to more and more areas of life .
of course , a creditor country can always help a debtor by investing its surplus there .
as a measure of its magnitude , consider this : in 2012 , the new internet address system , ip v 6 , created more than 3 40 trillion trillion trillion ( 3.4 x 10 38 ) addresses – that is , around 4.8 x 10 28 addresses for every person on earth .
the results have been dramatic .
but the truth is that myanmar ’ s jihadi scourge is decades old , a legacy of british colonialism .
in fact , it was frightening .
more train wrec ks are in the making .
this evolution is at the center of a case study of foshan – a city of seven million people located near guang zhou , at the heart of the pearl river delta – launched last year by a team of chinese researchers ( of which we were a part ) .
as an im mature international creditor , china is unable to balance the inflows by making renminbi loans abroad .
but then the election became a heated contest , as the conservatives coales ced around a dark horse candidate , e bra him rais i , a hardline jur ist with a history of brutality against the opposition .
this gives political succ or to those who accuse rouhani of being naive to hope that the international community would welcome a more open iran .
at first glance , this deal was intended to meet contemporary russia ’ s most important economic challenge .
two nurses came into her hospital room to prepare for a trans fusion .
his most ambitious strategy has been to try to form a partnership with ben az ir bhutto , the head of one of the two largest democratic parties .
rome – development experts and policymakers understandably focus on migration to urban areas and the need for sustainable urbanization .
church officials are not calling for that harsh a penalty .
but the us position is unambiguously misguided in not forese eing that the “ kosovo precedent ” will incite instability and potentially even violence elsewhere .
this was achieved primarily through dialogue .
no meeting between the us and russian presidents can change that reality .
indeed , putin is often called a new czar , because his power is legally unlimited ( though his pre occupation with opinion polls shows that public sentiment does matter ) .
russian president vladimir putin has intentionally exacerbated at least four of these crises .
until now , russia has ref rained from selling advanced military equipment to pakistan , in order to avoid damaging its relationship with india .
by contrast , in recent years , russia has enjoyed a sizeable budget surplus , and public debt is below 20 % of gdp .
after all , it has long compe ted with turkey for influence in the black sea and the middle east .
copenhagen – russian authorities recently threatened to aim nuclear missiles at danish war ships if denmark jo ins nato ’ s missile-defense system .
his actions suggest that he considers economic data to be far less important than security information – perhaps the natural attitude of a kle p tocr at .
by transforming ukraine into a weak and conflict- ridden enemy , he both qu elled rising pro-democracy sentiment in russia , inspired partly by ukraine ’ s move toward the european union , and ar oused nationalist euphoria .
in a matter of weeks , ukraine was dealt a devastating one- two pun ch by the war in georgia and the financial crisis .
when the deputy head of the presidential administration , v y ach es lav  vol od in , said during a recent val da i discussion club meeting in sochi that “ putin is russia and russia is putin , ” he was expressing a profound russian reality .
it has tracked down and attempted to murder former members of its security services inside nato member states .
the next year , jo han b ä ck man , a doc ent at helsinki university , published a book about the incident , the bron ze soldier , in which he called estonia an “ apartheid state ” led by incompetent leaders whose citizens were incapable of coming to terms with their own history .
foreign minister sergei lav rov has even condemned western reports about the deaths as “ attempts to speculate on war . ”
when oil prices rise , russia expres ses its latent resentments more aggressively , often employing its military .
though none of this helped russians economically , much less expanded their freedoms , it established putin as a champion of “ great russia . ”
but the railway ’ s first section – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that ran farther away from the chinese border – was built by forced labor , including russian in mates and german and japanese prisoners of war , her ded together in so-called bam lags , now ghost towns .
eur asi anism has given ultra- nationalist groups common ground around which to unite .
putin is often compared to joseph stalin , but nowadays , as the 20th anniversary of the soviet union ’ s collapse at the end of 1991 approaches , he looks increasingly like leonid brezhnev – the symbol of a political system that is well past its exp ir y date .
russian capitalism h ates the consumer as much as russian communism did .
the following year , v nes h t org bank purchased a controlling stake in the privatized united georgian bank , georgia ’ s third largest .
it ’ s a mistake .
the mere fact that high-level russians re appeared in davos to defend themselves may be a small but healthy sign .
as georgia ’ s prospects of joining nato seemed to increase , russian actions became more illiberal .
in 2004 , she was arrested and , in 2006 , sentenced to six and a half years on embe zz lement and tax fraud charges .
if the next president comes to power by means of a free and fair election , russia will have a real chance at a decent future .
for the time being , khodorkovsky 's love remains un requ ited .
there is a clear correlation between democratic illiteracy and a de- emphasis on civ ics , government , and history education in schools .
they recently discovered what their arab colleagues have known for a long time : that for an oil-rich regime , it is cheaper and safer to buy knowledge than to produce it .
geopolitical calculations have , naturally , played a part in these maneu vers .
our public thought is fragmented , and the country ’ s intellig ent sia , who are partly responsible for t ending to society ’ s values and goals , are behaving in often- destructive ways .
the dis sen ters mar ches , which take place on the 3 1st of every month ( article 31 of the russian constitution guarantees freedom of assembly ) , could be ( and are ) easily dismissed as a marginal protest of a few hundred people with no common goals or ideas .
russia , by contrast , has essentially abandoned its pensioners by infl ating away the value of their incomes .
more broadly , putin wants to expand the geopolitical ch ess board , in the hope that he can gain sufficient leverage over the us and nato to w rest concessions on stifling economic sanctions .
in doing so , putin has not only moved to trap my country in a frozen conflict that will prevent both democracy and the economy from flourishing ; he has sh red ded the rules and norms that have kept the peace in europe for three generations .
in re directing its exports , russia is in effect demanding that europe spend billions of euros on new infrastructure to replace a perfectly good pipeline , only to satisfy putin 's desire to cause trouble in ukraine .
those who vote for them all feel “ left behind , ” not just economically but also culturally .
aside from the obvious benefits , these gains matter because , as unicef recently not ed a country ’ s potential return on investment in social services for vulnerable children is two times greater when the benefits reach the most vulnerable .
it will integrate each citizen of rwanda into global networks of learning .
despite being put atively “ national , ” the iraq tribunal cou ches the relevant offenses in terms of “ crimes against humanity . ”
seoul – emerging asian countries should be proud of their economic resilience .
that brief conversation – the first between the two countries ’ presidents since 1979 – recalls the last attempt to revive bilateral diplomacy , undertaken 12 years ago by iran ’ s then-president mohammad khatami .
the irg c ’ s commander , general mohammad ali j af ari , has publicly expressed his hostility to rouhani ’ s administration , while general hassan fir ou z ab adi , chief of staff of the armed forces , has countered by expressing his support for the president .
the kurds have never sought to achieve democratic goals through violence .
but there is a glaring weakness in the arguments of the bill ’ s opponents : while they hint dar kly at the “ unintended consequences ” of leg alizing sam e- sex marriage , they can not spell out exactly what these consequences would be .
the influence of the levels and composition of maternal nutrition on a female fet us will carry through to adulthood , when she , too , becomes a mother .
it was also true of the two bretton woods arrangements , in which the us ran the necessary deficits .
sadly , there has been little media outrage at the predicament faced by the ye zi di .
se gol è ne . royal has done well , but probably not well enough , unless in a face to face debate with nicolas sarkozy she can rally a majority of viewers to the radical modernity of electing a woman to the highest french position .
the critics are right .
in 2012 , no one in sarkozy ’ s camp is betr aying the president ( those who are trying , such as former prime minister dominique de vil le pin , have received no support ) . it is sarkozy himself who has betrayed the hopes of his supporters and consolidated the hostility of his opponents .
chirac , it should be recalled , guaranteed the defeat of gis card d ’ est a ing by dividing the right so bitterly that it proved impossible to re unite behind gis card in his fin al- round confrontation with françois mitterrand .
at the ap ex of the pyr amid , the g-7 was obliged to give way to the broader g-20 , bringing countries like china and india into the decision-making nexus as full partners .
after italy ’ s former central bank governor , anton io fa z io , flag ran tly abused his position to block a takeover of an italian bank by ab n am ro , member countries agreed that future mergers would be assessed on five objective criteria , the idea being to prevent governments from blocking foreign b ids purely for protectionist reasons .
americans se eth ed , and it appeared that the awkward alliance between a secular democracy and a secre tive the ocracy , cem ented by common interests during the cold war , was plunging into the abyss separating their values .
salman has since been shifting governmental responsibility to crown prince muhammad bin na ye f and deputy crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud .
our small group of woman cad ets at the pa f training academy was instructed to maintain strict boundaries with the men with whom we would serve .
but transforming the economy will require the participation of investors and businesses ; indeed , we calculate that by 2025 , at least 70 % of the investment should come from the private sector .
but in the saudi context they are a real breakthrough .
so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is questioned , and sectarian tensions are growing .
saudi nationals do , because they are employed by the state at above- market “ reser vation ” wages .
but his fall would present the saudis with the risk of a country led by the muslim brotherhood .
the saudi prince ’ s dangerous war games
these are positive steps toward emancip ating the kingdom from the more oppressive elements of wah hab ism .
to succeed , saudi arabia will have to take additional steps .
nor is there evidence to support the administration ’ s claim that the legislation will pay for itself .
likewise , if we are st ing y today toward the world ’ s poor , we should be lavish toward our desc end ents .
already , george osborne , immediately sacked as chancellor of the exchequer when may took office , has thrown down the ga un t let , challenging her democratic mandate : “ brexit won a majority .
in the absence of a backstop for emerging -country finances , the doom s day scenario of a protectionist vicious cycle reminiscent of the 1930 ’ s could no longer be ruled out .
to go soft now is to lose all credibility with respect not only to iran , but also to any other country thinking about pursuing a nuclear path .
accusing the british , of all people , of being xenophobic is absurd .
or , as the nobel laureate economist robert sol ow observed in 1987 , “ you can see the computer age everywhere but in the productivity statistics . ”
there is an argument , made by nicholas kr ist of in the new york times , that a swift punishment might persuade syrian president bashar al-assad to stop using chemical weapons and use “ more ban al ways to slaughter his people . ”
but simplistic free-market optimism is misplaced for at least four reasons .
the sgp 's fundamental problem is that it must strike a balance between two contradictory goals : it must retain bite against excessive debt accumulation , yet it must also give governments more maneu vering room to enact structural reforms and restore europe 's competitiveness .
diverse organizations , environmentalists , and corporations concerned with the state of world ’ s forests are joining forces to reverse deforestation and improve forest management .
however , while these factors may explain some of scandinavia ’ s success , the low rate of unemployment and the high level of gdp per capita also have a much more straightforward explanation : the high share of government employment in the labor force .
if those countries ’ economies recover and return to anything near full employment , the german surplus will likely rebound .
this is far from accurate .
this indifference mirrors similar reactions to other recent global appeals , such as for schooling for syrian refugees in lebanon .
and according to the current czech president , mil o š  z eman , these wel fa re- seekers can all be l umped into a single category : “ muslims . ”
green ’ s commitment to the “ aid reform agenda ” has been hailed by organizations like the us global leadership coalition , a network of ceos and ngos committed to elev ating both development and diplomacy .
building a caring economy
research in en z ym ology and nucle ic ac id chemistry led to techniques for cutting and re joining segments of dna .
the key to achieving the sdgs is thus to imp el public companies – especially the large firms that receive the majority of institutional investment – to account for environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) criteria relevant to the sdgs in their decision-making .
this year , people worldwide are marking the cent en ary of mandela ’ s birth .
there are four potential comb inations of outcomes for countries : ( 1 ) good governance and good economic policies ; ( 2 ) good politics and bad economics ; ( 3 ) bad politics and good economics ; and ( 4 ) bad politics and bad economics .
in recent years , however , unconventional monetary policy has shown that liquidity and credit can be created against global savings , with relatively little impact on inflation , provided there is excess capacity in production and insufficient effective aggregate demand .
this group has pledged more than $ 600 million over five years to enable 14 million girls to “ attend and complete primary and secondary school . ”
the catastrophic nuclear war plans that ell s berg saw in the 1960s were a sword of dam o cles that fortunately never fell .
the current government , however , is unable to super v ise free and fair elections .
these measures may be ill- conceived , but they show that with enough fiscal support , full employment can be attained , even as interest rates rise well above zero .
a per ennial sw ir l of good news after a crisis might in still a sort of bl and optimism , without actually eliminating the fear of another crisis in the future .
today the threats are from non-state actors as well as states , and they jeopardize human security as well as that of states .
oil companies still dr ill for and re fine petroleum , and principally sell gasoline and diesel fuel .
this would need to be spe edy , provide some assurance of objective assessment , and ideally generate strong concern across a wide cross- section of the international community .
but there is no sign of a considered assessment being prepared , which might at least help countries to make better- informed choices , even if it did not conclude that one model was unambiguously best .
chinese cities seek to counter uni formity via campaigns to recover their unique “ spirit . ”
but absolute demands for self-determination are more likely to become a source of violence , which is why they must be handled extremely carefully .
of course , the data market does not yet exist on this scale .
lee ’ s recent behavior may also reflect his fear that he could suffer a fate similar to that of past south korean presidents .
it would not be acceptable to argue that to bomb a city on the mainland was necessary in order to compel the argentine population to put pressure on the military junta to withdraw from the islands .
some might find them cre ep y .
but that does not mean the end of separ atism .
chinese president xi jinping and his politburo should signal that they are committed to this goal before they gather for the 19th national congress of the communist party this fall .
some are impaired in their ability to give informed consent due to mental or cognitive disabilities , or are exposed to coercion , im proper monitoring , and pervasive conflicts of interest .
there ’ s wisdom , which iran ’ s leaders should heed , in the old ad age that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush .
if it turns out that girls at risk of not receiving all three doses of the hpv vaccine are also those with an elevated risk of being infected and missing cervical scre en ings as adults , they may be slipping through not one but two nets .
our history grips us like a nightmare , for the crimes of the past sc ar the present and induce yet more crimes in the future .
but this also requires helping those people who out of desperation have fallen prey to extremist forces .
as darwin did not believe that pure a es the tics would guide female peac oc ks and lions in their choice of m ating partners , he had to find a rational reason for fem ales ’ preference for males with hind ering characteristics .
the impression of a generation on permanent holiday is deceptive in another respect . much public debate is devoted to child poverty and how to relieve it .
by establishing the seni ority rule for the most important supreme court appointment , sharif has de politicized the process .
deepening economic recession is bound to catalyze political change .
the best place to consider that question would not be brussels , but ti r as pol , the capital of the entity that calls itself the pr id ne stro vian mol da vian republic , or trans- d nie str  .
but , back in the 1930 ’ s , before unemployment insurance , 20 hours was better than nothing .
indeed , all indications are that hamas might soon boost its popularity by exchanging israeli corpor al gil ad shal it for even more prisoners , including some “ with blood on their hands . ”
as palestinian extremism and anarchy become clearer , israel ’ s stance may gain greater international sympathy , strengthening prospects for better relations with the arab world and the west .
i am even prepared to enter tain the notion that the cos mos might be sending us signals in every planetary alignment .
this victory represented a slight crack in the well- guarded for tress of indian politics , which had long been reserved for a small and largely hereditary circle .
indeed , india ’ s space scientists have produced tangible benefits for ordinary citizens , launching me te or ological satellites that have predicted cycl ones and helped save thousands of lives , as well as telecommunications satellites that have knit a vast country together through shared networks .
but many also remain skeptical .
new delhi – the victory of the bharatiya janata party and its leader , narendra modi , in india ’ s general election last month has raised a crucial question about the country ’ s future .
there are those who wish for india to become a hindu r ash tra , a land of and for the hindu majority ; those who wish to raise even higher the protectionist barriers against foreign investment that have started to come down ; and those who believe that a firm hand at the national helm would be preferable to the failures of democracy .
but there is no need to wait until central banks have run out of ammunition . we should begin activ ating fiscal policy now , for several reasons .
he lost the leadership of labor to ehud barak , joined ariel sharon ’ s new kadima party and his government , and was the object of criticism and attacks by the israeli right , who blamed him for the oslo accords .
the asia-pacific region has achieved tremendous growth in the span of a single generation .
is this really an appropriate response ?
the rig ors of the tpp are bound to force significant agricultural reforms , and pushing it through will , indeed , test party discipline .
soon , three years will have passed since the catastrophic earthquake and tsunami struck northeastern japan on march 11 , 2011 , causing the failure of the fukushima da i ichi nuclear power plant .
abe has spoken frequently ( including at the united nations ) about opportunities for women , and has called for women to make up 30 % of japan ’ s managers .
moreover , japan ’ s powerful bureaucracy – which has a long history of impeding reform ( and has taken too little of the blame for the country ’ s “ lost decades ” of stagnation ) – was probably not convinced that the election had authorized abe to push for sweeping change .
japan is now witnessing the emergence of a similar national consensus , or , rather , the dutch consensus in reverse : a shared sense that the government , major industries , and organized labor should work together to increase wages and bonuses ( while facilitating incentives that could enhance productivity ) .
iraq today is not the un itary arab nation-state that it was , and it is doubtful whether that state can be restored .
a rud der less us foreign policy is no response to a resurgent and neo- authoritarian russia flexing its geopolitical muscle .
this kind of dilemma has contributed to the fall of other developing-country dictatorships .
or , as the psychiat ris t z vi rex famously quipped , “ germans will never for give the jews for aus ch witz . ”
the central state always has its own nation- building responsibilities .
likewise , yugoslavia ’ s multi- ethnic experiment ended violently , following the collapse of its dictatorship .
heg el and marx embraced it .
a new peace paradigm
this vis cer al focus on ect has almost certainly led to ever more people ending up on drugs , and ever more brain damage and memory problems as a consequence .
thus , if a financial firm appears to have difficulties , its bondholders can not stage a run on its assets and how these bondholders fare can not be expected to trigger runs by bondholders in other companies .
then deputy secretary of state robert zo ell ick made clear that the us would accept the rise of china as a “ responsible stakeholder . ”
under proposed new legislation , if a foreign investment in a german company amounts to more than 25 % , an assessment can be made of whether public order or safety might be threatened .
if iran were interested solely in peaceful uses , the russian offer or some other plan ( such as placing stocks of low enriched uranium in iran ) could meet their needs .
and calibr ating a response was not easy .
so what is the best us and western policy ?
but if it precip it ates a long-term trade war , it could do serious damage .
after all , many smokers would actually like to see cigarettes banned because , like obama , they want to quit .
green e , however , was more concerned to understand why we have the intu itions , so he used functional magne tic reson ance im aging , or fm ri , to examine what happens in people ’ s brains when they make these moral judgments .
but , as the opening of peace talks between israel and the palestinian authority shows , there are signs of hope .
in india and russia , the target rate is 4 % .
indonesia is not only addressing deforestation , but will begin phasing out fossil-fuel subsidies for private cars next month .
its leaders are increasingly out of step with the public ’ s expectation of ethical and con scienti ous behavior .
it appears to ease depression ’ s most severe symptoms within minutes or hours , even in patients who have a dismal track record with other treatments .
kel le her concludes , “ equal justice for all without fear or favor is the bedrock of our democracy and , indeed , our country . ”
they do not apply across borders , there is not enough loss- absorbing capital in large complex financial institutions , and the funding structure of big bank holding companies remains precarious .
the question is no longer so much one of beliefs .
this is an expression used with great regul arity among top finance reporters ( though not , for example , by bloom ber g / business week , which has long been much more careful on this point ) .
two hundred years later , we may well be witnessing that battle ’ s intellectual and policymaking anal ogue .
the second set of shadow activities involves ban king- type activities that really are conducted outside banks .
international companies can bring cash , skills , technology , and high ethical standards to a host country .
these forces are poorly trained and badly equipped to take on fighters with experience in international jihadist campaigns .
but the creation of a wider siege mentality to boost domestic support also requires the invention of external co- conspir ators – global financial markets , the international media , or even turkey ’ s nato allies .
bab a gur meet r am rahim singh in san was fl own to prison in a lux ur ious helicopter with an “ adopted daughter ” in devoted attendance ; he n ib bled abstr ac tedly at a piece of ch oc ol ate as a police es cor t carried his bag s .
after all , western europe ’ s left-wing populists have often drawn inspiration from their latin american counterparts .
this is not to suggest a total absence of diplomatic progress since 1967 .
in sub-saharan african countries , for example , there are some 44 pup ils for every qualified secondary school teacher , on average ; for primary schools , the ratio is even worse , at 58 to one .
mining and pl ant ation agriculture were labor-intensive , but the population had collapsed precipitously upon contact with europe , owing to some combination of war , disease , oppression , and the disruption of livelihoods .
with very few exceptions , this has been true of projections for the global economy and individual countries alike .
indeed , china ’ s slowdown reflects an economic model that is , as former premier wen jiabao put it , “ unstable , unbalanced , un coordinated , and unsustainable , ” and that now is adversely affecting growth in emerging asia and in commodity- exporting emerging markets from asia to latin america and africa .
humanity can not live in a world of polluted air and water , empty seas , van ishing wildlife , and den u ded lands .
a team of eminent economists , including several nobel laure ates , then prioritiz ed these targets in value- for- money terms .
the reason is simple . despite all of the optimistic talk about wind , solar , ge other mal , and other sustainable , non- carbon- emitting energy sources , no alternative is remotely ready to shoulder the energy burden currently borne by fossil fuels .
nor will there be much progress on a matter dear to berlin , namely germany ’ s application to enter the un security council as a permanent member .
and such decisions may not be recognized as mistaken or unjust until later – consider franklin roosevelt ’ s intern ment of japanese- american citizens early in world war ii .
but the party system and the fa ’ s internal balance of power do not favor any turn abrupt toward radical left or populism . indeed , because populist tactics are likely to prove self-defeating in the presidential campaign , mu j ica started supporting vá z que z ’ s administration ’ s record and made ast or i his candidate to be vice president , entitled to take the lead on economic policy and participate in the executive . to stress their social democratic credentials both candidates , mu j ica and ast or i , have gone on pilgr images to the united states , brazil , and chile .
our first challenge is to democrati ze globalization .
this indirect impact makes social media an indispensable communications tool for politicians .
in the united states , president donald trump would like to establish his own ma fi a- style state but can not , because the constitution , other institutions , and a vibrant civil society won ’ t allow it .
the eu uses a different definition of monopoly power from the us .
in fact , when a city dou bles in size , every measure of economic activity increases by about 15 % per capita .
president barack obama ’ s administration has been extremely active in this area , and it is now doubling down .
new york – at last , republican candidates in the us presidential campaign have begun focusing on the economy .
this is nu ts .
if the put ins , erdoğ ans , and orb á ns of the world want to continue to benefit economically from the open international system , they can not simply make up their own rules .
it is based on culture , political ideals , and policies .
systematic repression is the autocratic regimes ’ calling card , and the “ sharp power ” they generate can not be sho e hor ned into the familiar and reassuring framework of “ soft power . ”
perhaps others were ash amed to say they care about politics and did , in fact , vote , but they can ’ t have been many .
similarly , cities can loosen land-use restrictions , such as unit size requirements , to allow for higher- density , and thus more valuable , projects .
the decision to invest and boost productivity was correctly deferred .
mo gad ish u – somalia is blessed with the largest coast line in continental africa .
in 2008 , australia ’ s then- prime minister kevin rud d apolog ized to his country ’ s ab orig ines , while queen elizabeth ii offered a moving gesture of contr ition in ireland a few months ago .
our reaction to sou l less bodies is well illustrated in a story told about des car tes after he died .
south africa has the know-how to meet africa ’ s burgeoning need for a wide range of services , from banking and insurance to retail and transport .
with a strong civil society , a free media , robust political opposition , and an independent judiciary , south africa is well positioned for a turnaround .
this goal should be achieved by “ radical economic transformation , ” which means , according to zuma , “ fundamental change in the structure , systems , institutions , and patterns of ownership , management , and control of the economy in favor of all south africans , especially the poor , the majority of whom are african and female . ”
pakistan ’ s cl amp down on its offices throughout the country essentially confirms this conclusion , though pakistan is publicly demanding more evidence .
that happened in 2004 , when , after agreeing to initiate what they called a “ composite dialogue ” that would cover eight issues that had kept them apart for decades , india and pakistan also agreed to work towards the creation of the south asia free trade area ( saf ta ) .
health officials everywhere can learn from and replicate the gains made in these two countries .
of course , competing on the basis of low wages alone would be inadequate to raise living standards in the long term .
thailand ’ s prime minister , thaksin shinawatra , met putin late last year and tent atively agreed to purchase 12 su - 30 m k m ’ s .
to this end , the government must redress shortcomings in the vent ure- capital market , nurture the labor force ’ s skills , and encourage entrepreneurship .
for many in the west , and especially for the political right in the us , the fu tility of attempting to negotiate with the north is hardly a revelation .
thus , how the chinese receive park may turn out to be less a reflection of change in south korea than a reflection of change in the people ’ s republic – an issue that goes to the heart of china ’ s identity and mission in the modern world .
prosecutors have issued another summ ons for her to appear in court on march 21 ; it is still unclear if she will , even though she has now lost her immunity from prosecution .
the triumph of a female president would be an important symbolic and practical victory for all who have sought to establish a political environment that is hosp itable to women .
while some pundits and politicians now suggest that the gnp could collapse sooner than corrupt and poverty- stricken north korea , park geun-hye , an iconic woman in south korean politics , has made it clear that she will not abandon the gnp .
new york – governments sometimes need to restructure their debts .
the international capital market association ( ic ma ) , supported by the imf and the us treasury , suggests changing the language of debt contracts .
some of the biggest risks lie in the emerging economies , which are suffering primarily from a sea change in the global economic environment .
the government is investing in “ micro ” satellites , building on its existing sum ban dil as at platform .
it is also important to emphasize the political stability – and public maturity – that allowed apar ty whose program called for ration alization of spending to win an absolute majority in the parliamentary election held six months ago .
both are voc ally anti- racist and pro- immigrant .
spain can be justly proud of the way it has dealt with its own roma minority .
europe could not have united in peace and democracy without that sea change .
the r ump euro ’ s weakened exchange rate would lead to renewed economic growth , job creation , and a stronger tax base in southern european countries .
since 2010 , the fish ery reserves in the spr atly islands and the western part of the south china sea have been reduced by 16 % .
in the us , government fostered the airline business – largely by buying c argo services from private airlines .
but , owing to what kan ’ s government called “ confusion on the ground , ” taiwan ’ s rescue team was kept waiting for days .
reconstruction of war- ravaged tamil districts , as well as other parts of our society damaged by years of fighting and terrorism , has barely begun .
they share western concerns about a revival of the afghan taliban and their potential support for extremist islamist movements in other central asian countries .
the result will be the equivalent of a bank run , leading to the collapse of the peg .
but , according to new research from the mckinsey global institute , that expectation may no longer be warranted .
similarly inconvenient facts apply to italy ’ s massive public debt , which was accumulated through excessive public spending financed by domestic savers ( in stark contrast to greece ) .
so the kremlin is preparing to mark the event on a scale that russia has never seen before .
cooperation from member states and the relationship between peace and justice are just two vital issues that require sustained attention at k amp ala and beyond .
when australia banned assault weapons in 1996 , mass sho ot ings stopped abruptly .
so does poor music education in state schools .
groups like the how ard jar vis taxpayers association warn that further increases could lead to a massive exodus of businesses and jobs .
•  substitu ting costly , toxic , or scarce materials with cheaper , more efficient , higher- performance , and more abundant alternatives .
his speculation about complete par th en ogen esis in mam m als – not to mention his use of the term “ im mac ulate conception ” to describe the process – prompted public concern about whether scientists should be “ playing god . ”
at this rate , those hard- earned foreign-exchange reserves will soon be exhausted .
when he uses cosmopolit anism as a curse , he has no idea of the term ’ s an tec ed ents .
sig mun d fre ud would have called this “ projection . ”
but it did little to revive household consumption , which accounts for about 70 % of the us economy .
it lacked strategy at a time when both countries face formidable challenges on many fronts .
when qu er ied about america ’ s dependence on foreign lenders , they often smu g ly re tor t , “ where else would they go ? ”
this small group , likely to be headed by xi , will play the key role in drafting specific guidelines for implementing the plenum ’ s proposed reforms – thus threatening to margin alize the long- dominant technocrats of the national development and reform commission , the heir to the old state planning commission .
the same thing has happened twice since the end of the great recession in mid- 2009 – a 3.4 % average annualized gain in the second and third quarters of 2010 and a 4.3 % average increase in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 .
the answer will be revealed at the national people ’ s congress in march .
the united states and china are locked in an uncomfortable embrace – the economic counterpart of what psychologists call “ codependency . ”
collectively , the annual growth rate in the major developed economies averaged a little less than 0.7 % in the first half of 2014 .
simply flooding markets with cheap high- cal ori e , low- nutri ent gra ins will never solve chronic malnutrition .
as was true of european fascism in the 1920s and 1930s , it is not easy to find much ideological coherence in these various political str ands , let alone in bannon ’ s movement .
the upcoming sustainable development goals will be based on the understanding that economic development is key to improving human well-being and securing the most vulnerable people ’ s rights .
not even physicians are immune to these influences ; indeed , in some cases , they actually create the bias .
it should not be necessary to re articulate and re argue these basic points .
there were thus other ways of increasing aggregate demand besides fiscal stimulus : doing more to induce lending , to help homeowners , to restructure mortgage debt , and to redress existing inequalities .
a lower discount rate and/or a higher rate of expected earnings growth would justify higher equity valuations .
of course , if one looks at many different investment strategies and many different countries , one can find something that performed spectacularly in the past , even if there is no strategy that can be expected to do so well in the future .
finally , algorith m ic trading played a role .
the index is the share of people who answered “ increase ” to the question , “ if the dow dropped 3 % tomorrow , i would guess that the day after tomorrow the dow would : increase ?
for example , for more than a decade , germany ’ s police forces , customs service , and even the bundes we h r have been ordering uni forms from a state-owned factory in the city of d z her z in sky , named after the father of the red terror and founder of the soviet kgb , fel i ks d z her z in sky .
for example , some researchers want to use gene- drive organisms ( g dos ) to infiltr ate and eliminate entire p est species within a few generations .
this assumption is based on a number of such trades , including 1, 150 arabs , mostly palestinians , for three israelis in 1985 ; 1 23 lebanese for the remains of two israeli soldiers in 1996 ; and 4 33 palestinians and others for an israeli businessman and the bodies of three soldiers in 2004 .
the endless cycle of reporting on violations of child rights is in danger of becoming a p ant om ime .
vietnam , too , has strengthened its ties with the us .
as it stands , the case for the liberal international order is not compelling enough for a large – and growing – swath of the population .
among the expected findings is a prediction that by 2050 , nearly 90 % of global poverty will be concentrated in sub-saharan africa , and two-thirds of the world ’ s poorest people will live in just ten countries .
but improved surveillance is essential to ensure that the global economy remains on an even ke el .
while russia and the us still possess the vast majority of the world ’ s 14 ,000- 15,000 nuclear weapons , efforts to reduce stockpiles have grown more complicated as the number of nuclear-armed states has increased .
there have been embarrassing security lap ses at nuclear facilities , and sensitive material is often inadequately secured .
in the absence of formal enforcement powers , the pragmatic alternative is to develop mechanisms for monitoring implementation of standards on an ongoing basis , and to incorporate systematic , impartial peer reviews .
there are more than a half- billion mobile connections on the continent today ; indeed , in many respects , africa leads the world in mobile growth and innovation .
as it stands , the low official unemployment rate can be explained partly by declining participation rates , especially among workers aged 25- 54 .
london – the year 2016 showed that the dur ability of liberal democracy can no longer be taken for granted , even in the west .
in the us , polarization is not an objective reflection of given cultural differences ; it has at least partly been a conscious elite project to divide the country for political advantage and sometimes even personal profit .
st umbling in the dark
· the addition of 1 15 million non- agricultural jobs over the next decade to absorb the growing pool of workers and accelerate the shift toward more modern industries .
once africa ’ s consumers have access to electricity , they will want home appliances and other goods , which will generate demand for new services and create even more opportunities for skilled workers .
but children in sub-saharan africa often suffer through multiple bouts of the disease before they reach the age of five .
another option is to build on successful mediation efforts that help women discuss financial inclusion with their hus bands .
in the united states , the pay of less qualified workers is so meager that , if their situation is not dire , they find it emotionally difficult to keep a job for long , or they become too dem or alized or distracted to be adequate employees , or minimum-wage laws make them unaffordable to law- abiding employers .
this implies that transferring the majority of revenue- raising capacity to the regions would be a mistake for the uk , because doing so would give the country a banking union without a fiscal backstop .
sudan urgently needs the same efforts now .
this re distributed global income toward countries with a higher propensity to save : the oil- exporting countries .
august is an especially bad month for financial markets .
in september , the egyptian foreign ministry accused erdoğan of seeking to “ provoke chaos ” and “ incite divisions in the middle east region through his support for groups and terrorist organizations . ”
suddenly , the fund has moved to center stage as the only agency seemingly capable of stemming the vicious downward spiral that is currently seizing emerging-market stocks and bonds .
the eurozone and the uk remain mired in recessions made worse by tight monetary and fiscal policies .
becoming a mother – the r ite of passage that mothers ’ day celebr ates – can carry a terrible burden of fear , anxiety , and loss for many women and their families .
the risk today is not imminent crisis , but rather that the capital flows arising from the global boom will not be well managed , leading to the buildup of vulnerabilities .
that means devising practical ways to finance and encourage the required shift .
on the other hand , rising demand for se af ood poses significant ecological risks .
in this regard , the if c views this inaugural report largely as a blueprint to accelerate and stream line change .
the reason is simple : the world ’ s largest companies relentlessly – and rather successfully – pursue their own profits , all too often at the expense of economic fairness and the environment .
trump has explicitly declared his intention to ignore the paris agreement .
but this need not be the case .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity .
this idea was instrumental in designing the post-2015 development agenda .
this is all the more important , given the unprecedented and unpredictable threats that we currently face .
just seven weeks after the peace speech , the americans and soviets signed the limited test ban treaty , a landmark agreement to slow the cold war arms race that would have been unthinkable only months earlier .
instead , the index shows us that cambodia – where more than 20 % of the population lives on less than $ 1. 90 per day – gets a green , out performing an orange spain on implementation of sdg 1 : “ end poverty in all its forms everywhere . ”
achieving this requires convincing still- skeptical creditors that women are depend able – and , indeed , valuable – clients , including by citing data on micro credit , which prove that women repay loans as reliably as men , if not more so .
the united states and japan remain important drivers of the global economy but face major debt and deficit challenges .
today , there are seven billion people on the planet , and each one , on average , is responsible for the release each year of a bit more than four tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere .
twenty years later , with the stakes even higher , we can no longer afford inaction .
still , full nato membership remains a controversial issue in sweden .
the big winner was the populist s d , which doubled its share of the vote , to more than 13 % .
not tru sting that officials will be can did about alarming information , we rely more on rumors .
but what is the natural level ?
after all , without the us , the other main foreign powers in the syrian conflict – turkey , russia , and iran – will be able to consolidate their spheres of influence and divide the spo ils of the post-war reconstruction among themselves .
unless multi polarity is met with an efficient multilateral approach , problems like syria ’ s civil war will become much more frequent – and more difficult to resolve .
assad ’ s final days are unlikely to be pretty .
the in humane conditions these refugees face are unacceptable .
japan ’ s potential contribution also involves iran , with which japan has lately been pursuing a closer relationship – not least because japan needs iranian oil and gas .
in a city where locals have long been relegated to second- class status , the triumph of the democratic union party ( py d ) – the syrian branch of the pkk – has kind led fears that history is repeating .
while a 2017 world bank study puts the price at around $ 2 25 billion , more recent assessments suggest a total closer to $ 400 billion ; others expect the sum to approach $ 1 trillion .
france ’ s opposition to syria ’ s presence in lebanon was at least partly a reflection of disenchan tment with assad ’ s reformist ambitions , and the european union has expressed similar reservations .
but it is not inclusive enough to serve as the syrian opposition ’ s sole representative .
the daily horrors that aleppo ’ s bes i eged citizens are now experiencing mark a new low point , following the collapse of the latest ceasefire , brokered by the united states and russia , which distur b ingly fell apart precisely at the same time that world leaders were gathered together for the united nations general assembly .
in that case , the threat of default is no longer credible .
the second is designed to bury whatever hopes still exist for signing a successor treaty to the kyoto protocol .
the value of in sigh tful analyses of such complex problems should not be discounted .
in addition to confronting tb and ncds , world leaders will also discuss ways to promote mental health and wellbeing .
strategy forms a different axis of action , accounting for the structure of global interdependence and thus how individual changes may affect the entire system .
french companies do spectacularly well in the global market place .
but while pas sivity may have ensured social peace in the short term , it enabled values other than those of the republic to take root in wide swaths of french cities .
the challenge now is to do the same with all of our life-saving vaccines – particularly those that target the biggest killers of children .
the group ’ s brutality is not so much an expression of religious belief as of tribal traditions that have , over the centuries , shaped a narrow , fanati cal interpretation of islam .
it includes a number of liberal- democratic principles that many taliban consider objec tion able , if not bl asph em ous .
all is well as long as foreign lenders keep lending and the country keeps investing .
rewarding successful ventures is the basic idea of capitalism – a dynamic process that joseph schumpeter called “ creative destruction . ”
sri lanka ’ s economy must open up – � not an easy thing to achieve at a time when liberal economic reforms appear to be in dis repu te .
but at the moment , an atmosphere of impunity is embol dening those intent on sil encing human rights defenders , journalists , and opposition leaders .
the deterioration of saudi arabia ’ s political influence has contributed to a growing sense of national decline .
targeting the targe ters
the automatic exchange of information is a pragmatic and effective response to the perceived lack of global governance regarding international tax issues .
most economists would agree that america ’ s current tax structure is inefficient and unfair .
as the saying goes , “ sunlight is the best dis infec tant . ”
opponents of the double standard draw on principles of fairness , equity , and distribu tive justice .
sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domin o effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members .
today , not a single legal system recognizes personal data ownership .
but colleges and universities have far more capacity to experiment ; indeed , in many ways , that is their rais on d ’ ê tre .
for the sake of social welfare in the years and decades ahead , we must ensure that these decisions are compatible with the creation and maintenance of healthy , competitive markets .
they respond efficiently to citizens ’ needs and preferences , apply international experience to domestic policymaking , and use data and alternative scenarios for long-term planning .
and we will have to engage major companies in a new way , giving them ample incentives and market rewards for success , without allowing them to hold a monopoly on successful technologies that should be widely adopted .
every practice and standard will have to be re thought .
to be clear , i am not suggesting that the net effects of recent technological advances are negative .
i recently debated the technological stagnation thesis with th iel and kas par ov at oxford university , joined by en cryp tion pioneer mark shu tt le worth .
for example , those who are partly self- employed and partly employed by a third party would have to be better incorporated into social policies .
but , until recently , learning what one needed to know to come up with scientific and technological innovations took a lot more work , with countless hours spent scour ing libr aries and encycl op edi a volumes .
almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the us peaked at 53 % of total employment .
lending , too , is being transformed by technology .
it ’ s the same thing that links the north korean nuclear threat and terrorist attacks in europe and the united states : all represent the down sides of tremend ously beneficial technologies – risks that increasingly demand a robust policy response .
meanwhile , in real ( inflation-adjusted ) terms , second- tier players earn much less money from tournam ents and exhib itions than they did in the 1970 ’ s .
it may be more politically acceptable , and thus sustainable , to tax the robots rather than just the high-income people .
nothing could be further from the truth than the claim that europe and europeans , with the possible exception of the greeks , are in denial .
as for the economy , no one expected a repl ication of germany ’ s post-1945 w ir t sch af t sw under .
the next ten years will be characterized by major structural adjustments and shifts in individual economies , and by a huge re configuration of the global economy as a whole .
this movement of peoples has little to do with the “ clash of civilizations ” foreseen by samu el hun t ington .
similarly , elections in palestine did not persuade hamas to turn its back on violence any more than elections in lebanon dissu aded hezbollah from initiating the current crisis in the middle east .
unfortunately , the effectiveness of the pledges that will be made – particularly in ravaged lands like somalia , northern nigeria , and iraq ’ s an bar province – is entirely uncertain .
let the actions of thu gs play out in an empty theater .
the drugs suppressed arr hy th mi as – disturbances of the heart beat associated with sudden death .
but public pro clam ations are often less effective than long-term strategies in promoting human rights .
emissions and natural processes that increase atmospheric carbon are known as “ flows . ”
nonetheless , the historical record speaks for itself : since 1953 , north korea has not launched a large-scale military assault on south korea , and has limited its threats against japan to belligerent rhetoric .
but thaksin ’ s rural base wonders why the anti- thaksin groups and his predecessors in power never tried to do much for them .
can we really trace the roots of today ’ s malaise back to the 1980 ’ s ?
this is not a matter only for the world ’ s largest economies .
nobel laureate economist paul krugman , for example , claims that “ a back -of- the- envelop e calculation ” on the basis of “ textbook macroeconomics ” indicates that the $ 800 billion us fiscal stimulus in 2009 should have been three times bigger .
for a long time , that cynical response seemed to be justified .
m s. watanabe ’ s story helps to illustrate a remarkable disparity .
during the boom years , structural transformation in many emerging economies , particularly in latin america , was limited .
this is the economic challenge that president françois hollande , prime minister jean- mar c ay ra ult , and all of us in the french government must confront .
simultaneously , banks gave preference to shedding assets outside their national borders , and risk managers try to match assets and liabilities at home , rather than within the eurozone as a whole .
it is not necessarily a victory for women – or men – that , 40 years on , professional women are just as exhausted as professional men traditionally have been .
the west , euphor ic from its victory over communism and its seemingly unstoppable economic growth , failed to implement necessary structural reforms ( germany and sweden were rare exceptions ) .
pushing the muslim brotherhood back underground is a recipe for further instability .
moreover , the japanese language is not widely spoken , and japan ’ s meager english- language skills make it difficult to attract international talent to its universities .
humanity ’ s only hope is that the vicious circle of extremism can be replaced by a shared global understanding of the massive challenges of climate change , food supplies , sustainable energy , water scarcity , and poverty .
but as the yen strengthens , japan , too , seems to stop growing .
new york – ­  early this month , kyrgyzstan ’ s president kur man be k bak i y ev went cap in hand to moscow to ask for financial aid .
some , like greece , face such a parl ous situation that it is difficult to imagine any outcome other than a traumatic default and further economic turmoil ; and greece is unlikely to be the only western economy forced to restructure its debt .
for it was ber nar d- henry l é vy who convinced french president nicolas sarkozy to meet with libya ’ s rebel leaders , an encounter that led directly to france taking a leading role in persuading the united nations security council and us president barack obama to back military intervention .
and at the start of a new five-year term at the european commission , i will continue to do all i can to promote this important issue .
any military intervention would entail a confrontation not only with the syrian military ( supported by russia and china ) , but also with shia iran and its lebanese proxy , hezbollah .
the supreme council of the armed forces ( scaf ) , the ruling junta , appointed two more women , bringing the share of women mps to about 2 % .
the initiative should also encourage free movement of goods and people within the region , by lifting the customs restrictions and complicated procedures that hinder bilateral and multilateral trade .
· a monopoly over the use of legitimate force ;
only one high-income region has done a reasonably good job of preparing its youth , and its overall economy , for tough global competition : northern europe , including germany and scandinavia ( denmark , finland , norway , and sweden ) .
it is also our signature act as a species , the one thing we do that no other cre ature does .
what did the sheets of clo th covered by regularly inter s per sed col ored do ts – the products of hir st ’ s large and mechan ized work shops – have to do with arti s tic innovation or origin ality ?
that outcome will benefit asean ’ s members – and the world .
younger leaders are more likely to be able to cope with the ch op and change of difficult times .
history shows again and again – throughout the modern era and around the world – that people do indeed have some powerful tools to reestablish an open society if they were willing to use them .
such terms provoke fear that , once confidence in any one country is lost , all others are in danger .
independence for kosovo , too , is in ching closer .
despite this appalling record , the us occupation authorities in iraq appointed a former director of the texas prison system , lane mc cot ter , to help set up operations at abu ghraib in may 2003 .
these assessments are unusually divergent .
likewise , the accidental release a day early of the minutes from the fed ’ s march r ate- setting meeting to more than 100 people , including banking executives , congressional aides , and bank lobbyists , raised questions about how the bank controls the disclosure of privileged information .
people tend to forget that ru dy ard ki pling ’ s famous po em about “ the white man ’ s burden ” was not an o de to the british empire , but to the us colonial enterprise in the philippines .
but things are not so simple .
it has no reason to intervene .
villagers and merchan ts from both sides conducted a bris k business and border trade unfettered by the authorities .
nevertheless , the elections represented significant progress . first , they were competitive .
it does not want to prosecute the guantánamo detainees in federal courts , but it is unlikely that it can prosecute them under the law of war as interpreted in the ham dan decision .
in a recent report , the people ’ s bank of china urged chinese companies to acquire foreign firms as the first stage of a ten-year plan to ease china ’ s capital- market restrictions – long a goal of us policymakers .
if there were some short-term stimulus that was timely and likely to raise output and employment at a reasonable long-term cost , i would be all for it .
while paper maps can accurately portray static features like rivers and mountains , they can not easily be updated when new buildings are constructed , roads are r er ou ted , or new restaurants open .
us and chinese government agencies are working together to address these issues .
poverty allevi ation , central to the un millennium development goals , is largely measured in gdp growth , but must include sustainable management of the natural capital on which economic health depends .
intelligence , diplomacy , security forces , and educating people to the requirements of life lived under the shadow of an invisible menace must all be brought to bear .
but when it comes to immigration , there is not much in the liberal tradition to which they can turn .
regarding their professional attain ments , lu go vo i in 2007 seems to have the edge .
since the crisis went global last autumn , the imf has had countries parad ing to its door .
brazil and india are democracies , while china and russia are decidedly not .
and it seems that the brics may not even be willing to try .
governments ( such as iran ’ s ) can and do carry out illegal nuclear activities in secret sites that international inspectors either do not know about or can not enter .
americans do- go o ders like nicholas neg ro pon te , with his $ 100 lap top , have identified the right problem : africa is way behind technologically and rapid leap - fro gging is possible .
moreover , the world trade organization ’ s agenda will remain irrelevant and , in any case , dead locked .
the international community must make clear that china ’ s interests would be protected during a transition to a more open society in burma , and that some version of the oil pipeline project will be supported by any new regime .
nevertheless , electronic e av es dropping without court authorization , of the sort bush ordered starting in 2002 , played a particularly important part in nixon ’ s downfall .
skin cancer , long thought to be a disease of little public health significance , has now become epidemic .
donors are rallying for food aid , but they are resisting the obvious need to help the poorest million farmers ( and their four million depend ents ) get soil nutrients and improved seeds in time for the planting season this autumn .
so reducing emissions today is very valuable to humanity in the distant future .
while innovation sometimes comes from brilliant individuals – 21 of britain ’ s nobel pr iz e winners were refugees – it generally comes from the synerg y of talented people in close proximity .
poor farm families rely on their children for farm chor es and for security when parents reach old age .
now , they must pay for their mistakes by overhauling the entire institutional framework of the eu and the eurozone .
annual growth in the consumer price index peaked at 6.5 % in july 2011 .
if a majority of the french come to believe that a course of action is being imposed on them from outside – and by germany , no less ! – they will respond with traditional gall ic stubborn ness .
the embargo drove up prices and unleashed a period of inflation and stagnation worldwide .
at best , syria will emerge from the current conflict with a decentralized or federal state ; at worst , the country will go the way of somalia .
the sheer horror – parents seeing their kids safely off to school , only to have them be killed there by something intended to benefit them – is unbearable .
in other words , the shadow of the future suggests that a moderate strategy is best .
president bush ’ s recent visit to asia made little news – by design .
moreover , america ’ s military is closely coordinating with japan , re deploying its troops and strengthening its command and combat capabilities near taiwan .
similarly , chávez is clearly supporting daniel or tega , the per ennial sand in ista presidential candidate in nicaragua , and sha f ick hand al , the equally per ennial fml n candidate in el salvador .
hurricane katrina made the us public aware that global warming would likely raise the intensity of destructive storms .
the coming age of interest
yet something is stir ring in the hemisphere ; as its “ marijuana moments ” arrive with greater frequency , can a milestone be far off ?
but cl audi o bor io and p iti dis ay at , economists at the bank for international settlements , have argued convinc ingly that the sav ing s- glut theory fails to explain the unsustainable credit creation in the run-up to the 2008 crisis .
the coming showdown with iran
perhaps not .
the late editor of the weekly magazine der spi eg el , ru dol f aug stein , who never liked former chancellor helmut kohl , ti tled his commentary about german reunification “ congrat ul ations , chancellor ! ”
in invading russia in 1941 , hitler , like napoleon , demonstrated a military over confidence that resulted in catastrophe .
this raises the question of justice , but not the economic consequences of insisting on payment .
surrounded by hostile neighbors , such as chinese , mon g ols , and manch us in the north and japanese across the sea , koreans have struggle too th and nail for thousands of years to retain their ethnic , linguistic , cultural , and political identity .
“ humanitarian ” intervention – action that is motivated by our concern for the fate of fellow human beings – is often described as reflecting “ moral concern . ”
voting budgets in parliament – a representative institution – ensured that the people as a whole were liable for the obligations incurred by their government .
both sides need political leaders willing to take real risks for peace , including the risk of being killed .
many were children of nom adic her ders , who moved south in may and june in search of better past ures .
in the end , the committee on scientific dis honesty was itself re organized .
with such a poor track record , there is a need for sou l- searching and openness to other approaches .
count to ten before you respond .
it might also be a prerequisite for china to deepen its financial markets , particularly the bond market , laying a solid foundation for floating the renminbi ’ s exchange rate and opening china ’ s capital and financial accounts further – a precondition for the renminbi ’ s eventual adoption as an international reserve currency .
every morning , obama receives a brief ing from men who warn him of every plot and conspiracy to kill americans .
although the economic storm has become less intense , it hasn ’ t cal med yet .
in two years , europeans will commemorate the cent ennial of the assassination of arch duke fran z fer din and on june 28 , 1914 , and the subsequent “ july crisis ” that triggered world war i that august .
high- value and luxury brands were brutally affected by a wave of deep dis counting in the last quarter of 2008 .
what thai democracy needs in order to mature is not a political safety net , but a vigilant citizen ry to ensure disciplined enforcement of the constitution ’ s provisions and institutions , so that they can no longer be hijacked by the likes of a thaksin .
perhaps the most seduc tive aspect of the dna comparison is its lack of biological context .
but the memo irs of these rebel li ous vangu ards of yester year highlight only their youthful passion and pure idealism , or their suffer ings and those of their parents .
she was right then , and she is still right today .
the interwar economic slump became intractable because it was also a crisis of social stability , democracy , and the international political order .
in summary , considerable evidence exists for harm , and little evidence for intrinsic health value , of consumption of trans fats from partially hydro gen ated vege table o ils .
because the size of the losses was unknown – sub-prime losses alone are estimated at between $ 50 billion and $ 200 billion , depending on the magnitude of the fall in home prices , which is also unknown – and no one knew who was holding what , no one trusted counter parties , leading to a severe liquidity crunch .
self-determination is generally defined as the right of a people to form its own state .
first , macroeconomic indicators will be worse than expected , with growth failing to recover as fast the consensus expects .
but one hopes not .
americans find their patience tried by europeans who are free with their advice and criticism yet reluctant to shoulder risks .
recent events have heightened the urgency with which these issues are discussed .
it is quite common for family members of the victim to watch the execution of the person convicted of killing their relative , and afterwards to pron ounce themselves satisfied that justice has been done – it happened again with the execution of tro y dav is .
that encouraged investment spending , which in turn drove productivity gains and output growth .
the only practical approach is to take small , sequ ential steps , starting with debt pooling .
moreover , the us remains at the forefront of such cutting-edge technologies as bio tech and nanotechnology .
such “ violations ” occur elsewhere as well .
ordinarily , lack of inter oper ability is an irr itating in convenience .
so it appears that iraqis are showing greater attachment to their national identity and are supportive of a non- sectarian approach to government .
in the face of an immense tragedy , working class families around the world opened their wal lets to the disaster ’ s victims .
if the world ’ s center of gravity shifts to asia , however , americans will be woefully unprepared .
they have been tigh t f isted when it comes to short-term equity investments .
and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring fo od stu ffs with either fat or car bo hydr ate as the energy source , not both .
students will share ideas through live ch ats , shared curricula , joint projects , and videos , photos , and text sent over the digital network .
they are , on the contrary , a specifically modern phenomenon .
but those of little faith need to understand a basic , but some tim es- elusive point about such negotiations : they are conducted for two purposes .
the disappearing sky
political violence that creates the impression of mere street crime is never easy to prove , unlike jail terms of several years , and therefore it does not receive due attention from the world .
the damage is long- la st ing . amp n b sp ;
as a result , the talks were transformed into a full-blown leaders ’ summit , with presidents and prime ministers heading to denmark to seal the deal themselves .
it is not too late to reverse the apparently inexor able tide of bilater alism .
with the dollar ’ s hegemony unlikely to be seriously undermined by market forces , at least in the short and medium-term , the only way to bring about a major reduction in its role as a reserve currency is by international agreement . the chinese proposal falls into this category .
indeed , like the japanese during their period of rapid growth , the chinese have , until recently , resisted internationalization of the renminbi .
when news about the assassination plot first appeared , the supreme leader , ali khamenei , was on his way to the western province of ker man shah .
together they point to a gradual and steady improvement in overall labor-market conditions .
so china ’ s national security interest is to ensure that the gas- supplying nations of central asia have outlets to sell their gas that are not under kremlin control .
some believe that china can not rise peacefully , and will seek hegemony in east asia , leading to conflict with the united states and japan .
specifically , the central bank must be ready to act as a lender of last resort when investor panic threatens financial markets .
the ecb ’ s refusal to be a lender of last resort forced the creation of a surrog ate institution , the european financial stability facility .
second quarter german gdp has stalled after a surprisingly strong first quarter .
the second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , for they will understand that this would only lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment .
moreover , while monetary policy has always to be conducted under uncertainty , the ecb was confronted with a situation of extreme uncertainty .
but financial repression is hardly pain less and almost certainly reduces the alloc ative efficiency of credit markets , thereby imp acting long-term growth .
conversely , if child death rates were those of rich countries just 100 years ago , the figure would be 30 million .
the burden of existing debts is high , and investors ’ key goal is loss- avoidance , not profit- seeking .
furthermore , lower levels of my co tox ins in pe st- resistant corn mean fewer birth defects , such as sp ina b if ida , and less tox icity to livestock .
while the yearning for dignity , freedom of expression , and real democratic participation was the driving force underlying the arab revolutions , economic discontent played a vital role , and economic factors will help to determine how the transition in the arab world unfol ds . here , three fundamental and longer-term challenges are worth bearing in mind .
fourth , global capitalism presents many direct threats to happiness .
so pervasive has the violence become that ah med r ash id , the renowned expert on the taliban , has concluded that spe eding up the peace process through dialogue with the insurgents is the only option .
extending east from the indian ocean and west via the pacific , the us is creating a new strategic framework for the twenty-first century .
but for every such case – south korea is the favorite example – there is another , like hong kong , where me te or ic economic growth had nothing to do with centr ally planned education policy .
sufficient numbers of teachers , school buildings , and textbooks are all essential , but accelerating learning requires much more .
continuing the democratization process that began there in 2011 is urgent .
obviously , that represents an encouraging first step in brid ging egypt ’ s divides .
this was an important advance , and thus one that spread quickly .
the danger is that such groups could accent uate the divisions of a frac tious society , rather than pull everyone together in the collective national interest .
the eight growth market economies – the brics plus south korea , indonesia , mexico , and turkey – created close to $ 3 trillion in 2011 , more than the united kingdom in one year .
as we head into the second decade of the century , innovative ideas like using global savings or surpluses to finance infrastructure in emerging and developing countries should be pursued seriously .
there is a clash within islam , which , if the violence in iraq spreads to neighboring countries , risks causing regional destabilization .
democratic governments are hampered by lobby groups , special interests , public opinion , party politics , and so forth , while asian autocrats can make unpopular but necessary decisions .
the islamic revolution has survived a brutal war with iraq , economic sanctions , and decades of international pressure and isolation from the us .
but , while a widespread consensus held that communism was nothing but a dead end , china ’ s economic success , and the authoritarian backlash in russia following boris yeltsin ’ s departure from the kremlin a decade ago , prompted a more pessimistic analysis .
germany , japan , and russia already have declining workforces .
by the time the false religions of totalitarian ideologies were defeated , real religions – so it seemed – had long passed from the political scene .
you can complain that redistribution and industrial policy were economically inefficient , but not that they were unpopular .
as a result , gold can be very volatile – upward and downward – at the peak of a crisis .
such a policy response would have to include pro-growth structural reforms ( such as higher infrastructure investment , a tax overhaul , and labor re to oling ) , more responsive fiscal policy , relief for pockets of excessive indebtedness , and improved global coordination .
that was clearly the case with richard nixon , who never suffered from an excess of love for jews , but was nonetheless one of the staun chest allies that israel ever had in the white house .
quarter after quarter the macroeconomic news from the united states teaches the same lesson : real gdp growth at a sustained rate of 3 % per year is not enough to increase america 's employment level .
obama is correctly attempting to explain that effective energy policy , by its very nature , requires long-term goals and steady progress toward achieving them .
to be sure , photo graphic and video images rel ayed by the media have shown trees swept away by waves and water- dr en ched lands .
snow pack in the mountains is melting earlier in the season , so that river water is less available during summer growing seas ons .
none of the six points was implemented .
one problem is that developing countries often attempt to isolate their domestic markets from world prices , particularly price increases , in order to protect their more politically powerful urban citizens .
moreover , a code of ethics could help protect “ whist le blow ers ” who bring ethical breaches to the attention of the relevant authorities or the public .
despite strong ethical arguments for vege tarianism , it is not yet a mainstream position .
of course , i am more fortunate than many authors or creative artists , because my academic salary means that i am not forced to rely on roy alties to feed my family .
apart from 1, 500 dutch soldiers in the neighboring uru z gan province and a polish and romanian presence in g haz ni , pak ti ka , and z abul , no other eu nations are willing to operate in the insurg ency- ridden southern and eastern parts of the country , giving the taliban free reign .
the political and economic significance of all the mid- sized european powers is waning , and they are shrinking relative to the us and the rising giants of asia .
indeed , because the sum of all future tax revenues ( discounted to today ) must cover the sum of all future spending plus the national debt , the only way to keep taxes relatively low is to control spending .
consider november ’ s international summit on the financial crisis .
to the surprise of many , europe demonstrated great determination to ensure that the single currency became a reality .
government ’ s mounting debts have been a response to the economic downturn , not its cause .
a true loss would be inflicted on a bank ’ s creditors only if the write- off losses on toxic mortgage loans exceeded the bank ’ s equity .
european economic elites perceive china and india very differently .
but , with the crisis eroding these foundations , trust is giving way to mistrust , solidarity is succumb ing to ancient prejudices ( and even new hatred between the poor south and the rich north ) , and compromise is being overwhelmed by di k tat .
instead , it would be not only possible , but in some cases compulsory , for the european authorities to take direct decisions .
in any case , support for the euro , already fragile , will erode further , weakening the common currency and fueling even greater tensions .
but markets are more pragmatic : if , as is almost surely the case , austerity weakens economic growth , and thus undermines the capacity to service debt , interest rates will not fall .
the us “ banking union ” provides tangible insurance against local financial shocks .
the efsf ’ s size will be increased by accelerating the creation of the permanent european stability mechanism , and by letting it overlap with the efsf .
it is easy to conclude that no one is in charge : not the national governments , and certainly not the ineffective european commission in brussels , with which the large member countries seem to be practically at war .
but , when it comes to the m ff , europe ’ s national leaders appear not to be listening closely .
if this attitude prevails , there is a grave risk that the european project will become paralyzed .
rig a – with each passing year , the impending crisis of global warming looms closer and closer .
it is thus simultaneously an opportunity for the eu to assert itself , at long last , as an effective force in world affairs .
in europe , once torn apart by war , armed conflict among eu member states is now almost unthinkable .
on december 6 last year , evo morales was re-elected president of bolivia with more than 60 % of the popular vote .
but focusing on these countries ’ exchange rates is not the right way to go about it .
as islamist parties have taken power in the region , a wave of intimidation and discrimination has been unleashed on christian minority populations .
china ’ s credit binge is turning into a bust .
similarly , the unfinished reforms in china 's banking sector and state-owned enterprises have been used as evidence of state subsidies for dumping activities .
most importantly , both developing and developed countries need to abandon inflation targeting .
k if aya ’ s action is especially bold in the midst of a government crackdown to prepare the way for the succession of mubarak ’ s son , gamal .
incomes have increased 20- fold .
even so , the political consequences of the ph one- hacking scandal will depend on far more than the outcome of the official investigations now underway in britain . above all , the scandal ’ s impact will depend on how governments and citizens assess what news corporation really is .
they have too much to catch up with , in terms of national ego and national interest , to care for others .
long-term growth considerations , while recognized as crucial , seem distant from the here and now of financial repair and restoration of confidence .
in order to avoid such an outcome , li must adapt china ’ s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs .
in denmark , there are still only 1, 2 24 electric cars .
most intrig u ingly , the countries that have done the best in recent years are those that relied the least on foreign financing .
first , the fact that leaving the company usually meant c ashing in one ’ s pension at a discount increased worker loyalty .
consider how g ang sters in crime movies talk when they know that the police are listening .
breaking the vicious cycle of hunger and malnutrition requires complem enting the focus on agriculture and rural development ( more than 70 % of the food- insecure population lives in rural areas of developing countries ) with investment in other social and productive programs , including modest but predictable financial transfers to the poorest families .
he is currently advocating a referendum on whether taiwan should join the united nations , which china views as provocative .
the great recession did not turn into great depression ii because of coordinated action by governments around the world .
the next fed chairman should be someone with an open mind , a willingness to engage the staff , and a desire to cultivate expertise throughout the federal reserve system .
austerity ’ s proponents correctly point out that permanently expansionary macroeconomic policies lead to unsustainable deficits , debts , and inflation .
i foresee a series of interest rate cuts by the fed , which should not be viewed as a concession to asset markets , but rather as recognition that the real economy needs help .
hospitals are more important for some areas , while schools are more important for others .
what have we done to our fish stocks to bring about changes like this , and does it matter ?
now it will be forced to do so .
so , when pakistan ’ s military leaders finally allowed elections in late december 1970 , east pakistan voted overwhelmingly for the beng ali - nationalist aw ami league , which won 16 7 of 16 9 seats in the province .
the main challenge is to convince policymakers that there is more to reducing poverty than focusing on just three diseases .
but we should be clear about where we are coming from , and why – and that there was no golden age of european liberal democracy , whether before world war ii , in the 1950 ’ s , or at some other myth ical point .
the som ali a- like chaos and civil war that is now unfolding in gaza as a result of this decades- old stalemate can be blamed partly on ill- conceived israeli policies , and partly on an american administration that , for six long years , relegated the cause of israeli-palestinian peace to the bottom of its agenda .
the world economy was highly integrated in 1914 , but economic interdependence declined during the next three decades .
he has indicated that , if elected , he would re- negotiate the fiscal treaty and seek to alter the stat utes of the european central bank – perhaps as an early sign of willingness to break with european orthodoxy .
defenders of the french system qu ib ble over labor- cost statistics in their efforts to prove that france is not so different from its main european trading partners .
two of the three baltic countries and greece are in deep financial distress . much the same is true of portugal , spain , hungary , and iceland .
i went to benghazi to assess the intentions and credibility of the transitional national council and libyan opposition .
fukushima is one of them .
iter is not designed to produce electricity , but to study the stability of the fl ame in the mag net .
i brought up my past because i think that fact- checking is the single best training not just for journalism , but for life in general .
those with a pro actionary bent are happy to increase the planet ’ s human population indefinitely as nothing more or less than a series of experiments in living , regardless of outcomes .
other categories include business ( with entities such as employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and many more , and include represent ations – such as graphs , tim elines , and tables – of how they are connected .
but the triang le is not equ il ateral , because the us is allied with japan , and china need not become a threat to either country if they maintain that alliance .
no doubt some of the claims made for robots replacing human labor will prove as far-fetched now as they have in the past .
in response to these suggestions , an independent task force , made up of former government officials and academics , was established to examine the use of capital-account regulations and come up with an alternative set of guidelines for the use of such regulations in developing countries .
seoul – after a pain sta king investigation , south korea is pointing the finger of blame at north korea for the sinking of its war ship , the che on an , on march 26 .
but the ability to buy the j ams , mu es li , bal sam ic v in eg ar , and po ts of l em on cur d that i saw in an up -market gaz an super market will not do much for ordinary people , 80 % of whom depend on emergency food r ations .
simultaneously , through the diversification of supply sources , massive investments in liqu ified natural gas ( l ng ) , and a strong push in favor of the n ab uc co pipeline and inter- connec tors between the mediterranean rim countries , europe can move closer toward energy security .
unfortunately , this double standard sends a message that democratic empowerment in any society is possible only if it is in the interest of the great powers .
time and again , europe paid a high price for policies of compromises with evil that were dictated by economic interests or the illusion that evil can be appe ased and will disappear of its own accord .
indeed , jan g sun g- ta ek ’ s promotion to general was her decision .
foreign minister abdullah gul , a close associate of er dog an in the akp , pressed turkey ’ s application to join the european union .
for example , germany ’ s ongoing nuclear phas e- out has been complem ented by accelerated renewables implementation , with up to 3,000 m w of solar photo volta ic capacity connected to germany ’ s power grid in a single month .
this has dis p elled hopes that asia economic activity could develop separately from that of the us , thereby offsetting european exporters ’ losses in america .
barcelona – in recent months , the dic ho tom y between booming financial markets , on the one hand , and sluggish economies and dysfunctional politics , on the other , has lo omed large .
a decade on , it bears m enti oning that many “ global cities ” like london , new york , sydney , and hong kong now have home prices that only a very small minority of their permanent residents can afford , owing to the growing demand from wealthy investors abroad .
social-media technology was one tool that advanced it ; but so was a re concep tu alization of the meaning of public space , and the view that a plurality of ideas is superior to dogma – that the act of collaboration is as important as the outcome .
how much would it cost to insure them if the gross cost is now projected at $ 800 billion for the easi er- to- insure 35 million ?
but her family and teachers failed to recognize the problem , so she received no support or professional help .
for example , us pharmaceutical companies have stronger intellectual-property protection at home than in the eu .
the first challenge is to generate enough jobs to accommodate the inflow of new entrants into the labor market .
to europeans , the international monetary fund , which supervised exchange-rate arrangements in the post- bretton woods world , looked like a perfectly american committee , and france did not like that .
today ’ s “ gold bugs ” argue that the price could top $ 2,000 .
this must be done fairly , so that disproportionate focus on one side ’ s abuses does not create distortions .
similarly , even in america , movies and tv shows do not dram ati ze the lives of great tyco on philanthropists .
forecasts are always hazardous , but some “ what - if ” scenarios shed considerable light on what all of this means for the world ’ s largest economy .
washington , dc – for decades , research universities in the united states have been universally acknowledged as the world ’ s leaders in science and engineering , un surpassed since world war ii in the sheer volume and excellence of the scholar ship and innovation that they generate .
“ looking ahead , which would you say is more likely – that in the country as a whole we ’ ll have continuous good times during the next five years or so , or that we will have periods of widespread unemployment or depression , or what ? ”
if m s n spaces did not cen sor its chinese blog s , microsoft argues , the great chinese firewall would simply be program med to block chinese internet users from acc essing its service .
the most active of these countries is , of course , china , which can call upon its vast and still- rising foreign reserves of $ 3.3 trillion to push its interests in every corner of the globe .
later , “ new classical ” economists like robert luc as and thomas s arg ent demonstrated that once people understand that inflation is being manipulated to generate market optimism , the monetary authorities ’ actions lose their impact .
was this wishful thinking or self-fulfilling prophecy ?
sh acks were selling for a million dollars .
putin stressed russia ’ s disappointment over the eu ’ s failure to maintain the arms embargo against syria , thus permitting each eu member state to arm the syrian rebels .
with its population set to contract by 0.5 % annually over the next 30 years , even if per capita income in greece were to rise at the german rate of 1.5 % per year , the debt would be difficult to service .
indeed , the environmental movement – like most modern social movements – began in the us .
all that is needed are the right financial incentives to induce utility companies to produce less electricity ( and still be more profitable ) and consumers to reduce their use ( and gain savings without sacrificing comfort ) .
in june , hansen proclaimed that people who spread “ disinformation ” about global warming – ceos , politicians , in fact anyone who doesn ’ t follow hansen ’ s narrow definition of the “ truth ” – should literally be tried for crimes against humanity .
first , all polluters must sit at the negotiating table and be forced or induced to participate in reducing pollution .
certainly , america ’ s global role will not be called into question .
ross got it right again this week , when he said :
by signaling their intention to contain price pressures , they would alter inflation expectations – and thus essentially convince the public and the government to do the heavy lifting .
left to its fate , syrian society began to dis integrate and re organize on a sectarian basis .
princeton – t ür kan say lan was a tr ail bl az ing physician , one of turkey ’ s first female der mat ologists and a leading campaign er against leprosy .
haiti was exploited and occasionally occupied by us troops , rather than being regarded as a legitimate partner in trade and diplomacy .
whether hamas can actually be transformed into a more moderate organization is impossible to say right now .
here it was the poor and average transferring money to the rich .
but , while chen ’ s legacy of lies and corruption has ended , the re born k m t under president ma y ing- je ou has much to do to convince a cynical public that chen ’ s ways , reminiscent of k m t ’ s own dar ker past , have not become embedded in the system .
the point is that in today ’ s go- go ultra- high liquidity environment , ed die was probably successful in raising money with similar techniques .
only in the last few months of his second presidential term , after he launched the second war in chechnya in september 1999 , did he and his lieu ten ants regain some legitimacy in the eyes of the russian public , while causing re vul sion among any remaining western admir ers .
oxford – i conf ess : i do it , too .
can wealth be re defined and re framed to include access to basic goods and services , including those provided by nature free of cost , such as clean air , a stable climate , and fresh water ?
democracy , instead of being nurtured , was distorted , with active american encouragement , to make sure the right stayed in power and the left was kept at bay .
unlike george w. bush ’ s administration , which remains cav ali er in its disregard for the warning signs of climate danger both at home and globally , hu jintao ’ s leadership has begun to ev in ce a hopeful assertiveness , at least in domestic environmental policy .
but the main deal makers are those nations with the highest emissions , since they are the ones with something to trade .
may it guide us through a time ha unted , more than ever , by crime , distraction , and for ge t fulness .
the field could provide an aven ue , alongside 3d silicon chips , for maintaining – or even accelerating – the pace of mo ore ’ s law , which states that the number of tran sist ors on the integrated circu its used by computers dou bles every two years .
it could also require some adjustments to the fund ’ s charter , but so what ? the recently approved reforms already require changes to the imf ’ s “ articles of agreement . ”
apparently , roosevelt , or his speech writers , borrowed it from a new deal , a book by stuart chase that was published in 1932 and adapted the same year into a cover story for the magazine the new republic .
the current turmoil highlights the international financial system ’ s need for such an institution .
trade imbalances are the result , for instance , of household decisions about how much to save and how much – and what – to consume .
more fundamentally , the fund has accepted that there are risks as well as benefits to cross-border financial flows , particularly sharp inward surges followed by sudden stops , which can cause a great deal of economic instability .
at the same time , the management of reserve assets by an internationally controlled asset manager would remove suspicions and doubts about the use of assets for strategic political purposes .
cross- national policy spillovers are frequent .
for that reason , even those who believe that it is always wrong intentionally to kill an innocent being with a rational nature should not have opposed permitting be atr iz to termin ate her pregnancy .
after all , an approach that focuses on the half of the population that takes fewer risks and uses health-care services more frequently can not be expected to eliminate gender inequalities .
the mismatch between the time horizon of available funding and that of investors and entrepreneurs , particularly those in developing economies , is a source of vulnerability that acts as an impediment to growth .
this partly reflects the failure of public policy to ameliorate the distribu tive consequences of rapid economic growth .
by contrast , bombing damascus – which remains a den sely populated city , despite the flight of refugees – would undoubtedly kill a significant number of syrian civilians .
the ccp ’ s leaders have already decided that bo is guilty and must spend years in jail ( the scale of bo ’ s alleged br i be - taking ensures a sentence of 15- 20 years ) .
re- balancing the economy from gas- gu zz ling to energy- saving – and from private to public consumption – is bound to alter the goal of economic policy .
on the surface , china has opened up quite a lead on india .
the indians want faster liberalization of the textile and clothing trades ; the eu wants better enforcement of intellectual-  property protection .
this would spur “ trade wars ” as countries tried to find more demand abroad .
an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking .
the pope and the party
of course , such a government cio couldn ’ t make all that happen alone .
those flaws were reflected in yawning fiscal deficits , regulatory over kill , and a lack of economic dynamism that led to s cl ero tic growth then and the eurozone ’ s sovereign-debt crisis now .
moreover , while inter state conflict has been declining , in tra state conflict driven by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa .
these changes would not create some digital nervous system with a centralized brain that could solve all problems .
so pervasive is this tension , in fact , that any chance of even beginning the much-needed reconciliation process must now be pushed far into the future .
intelligence and military analysts debate how much of the violence is due to the presence of foreigners , though it is widely conceded that most of the attacks can be attributed to what american officials call “ former regime elements , ” with the iraqi sunni community the main pillar of the resistance .
the third argument focused on preventing saddam from possessing weapons of mass destruction .
substitute china for britain and today ’ s eurozone for the gold bloc and the trend of events today has the same ominous feel .
these movements were not created in the us or europe after september 11 , 2001 , and they will not wait for or depend on the us or the eu to act .
why was it not enough to prove that the bosnian serb military leadership was financed and paid by serbia and that it was tightly connected to serbia political and military leadership ?
much has been made of domestic consumption as a driver of chinese growth in the future .
tons of food gets pl owed under the ground because there ’ s so much of it farmers can ’ t get the prices they want .
this may be about to change .
can uribe survive his current travails ?
the intervening crisis only made the kremlin modify and shar pen its plan .
complete genomics and its competitors are about to create huge amounts of data .
the last extinction
doub tless , we will learn more about blair ’ s justi fications for what he did , and further articul ations of his interventionist creed , when he goes on the lecture circuit and , in due course , publ ishes his memo irs .
the party ’ s leaders know that any crisis in lebanon could provoke a sunni- shiite conflict .
of course , no one wants to break budgets or create dependency .
the revolutions of 190 5 and 19 17 also came at a time when those discussions were finished , and everyone knew who stood for what .
finally , the revolt of cyprus ’ s small savers highlighted the need for a credible system of deposit insurance .
consider the number of clubs that have qualified for the european champions ’ league top eight slo ts .
everyone can now see the gross and historic failures of the bush presidency .
interestingly , reinhart and rogoff broadly agree with this recommendation ( at least for the us ) , and they even support heterodox policies such as writing down mortgages and targeting a higher inflation rate .
in short , the changes in china ’ s microeconomic foundations , together with the weaknesses in its economic structure , imply that the economy must pay a higher cost , in the form of higher inflation , for a given increase in gdp growth .
but the constitutional convention , too , must be elected , and this election may run into the very difficulties that plague first elections to parliaments in new democracies .
an anxious nation is counsel ed to be resilient : “ let us not be deterred from seeing the loa thing that is infl aming and filling the lives of the hundreds of thousands of arabs who live around us …. this is the fate of our gener ation … to be prepared and armed , strong and determined , lest the sword be stricken from our f ist and our lives cut down . ”
to the extent that unconventional monetary policy – including various forms of quantitative easing , as well as pronouncements about prolong ing low interest rates – serves these roles , it might be justified .
will the global ecosystem be able to absorb these additional pollutants without considerable changes in the ecos phere ?
this would prove impossible to eradicate in the absence of improved means of cleaning and d econ tam inating surgical instruments and a specific test – prefer ably based on a blood ass ay – to screen asym pt omatic carriers .
if central banks are tightening and long-term rates aren ’ t rising , one needs some explanation .
economists and policymakers have disregarded the physical aspects of urban life .
surprisingly , both local and international analysts had predicted them to finish third , behind the ne pal i congress ( n c ) and the united marx ist- len in ists ( um l ) , the two largest parties that have been at the helm since multi- party democracy was restored in nepal in 1990 .
what iran does directly and through such groups as hezbollah and hamas has and will continue to have a major and mostly adverse impact on the future of iraq , afghanistan , lebanon , and palestine .
the remarkable increase in agricultural productivity over the past two centuries demonstrates this clearly .
or est es murders her , thus continuing the cycle of violence .
these worries plague people of all incomes , ages , and in all countries .
some european analysts predict that , over the longer term , greater stability will follow the political changes in the maghreb , with perhaps more than a million unemployed mor oc can and tunisian immigrants returning home if their countries ’ economies improve .
instead , bhutto had to pay with her life for cour ag e ously challenging extremists of all str ip es – from al-qaeda and taliban to the country ’ s religious political parties and military hardliners .
setting the right example is another crucial form of communication for leaders .
soon , gl ush ko offered his services to other soviet rocket design ers , mikhail y ang el and vladimir ch el ome i – kor ol ev 's rivals .
gau cher ’ s disease , for example , is a rare crippling genetic condition that , in its more severe forms , usually killed its victims in childhood . now those with the disease can lead an almost normal life , thanks to a drug called cer ez y me – but it costs $ 17 5,000 a year .
america itself will be safer , in part because it will be less likely in the future to unleash a spiral of violence fueled by its own irrational fears and mis understandings of the world .
for close followers of the syrian conflict , tracking key reporters and opposition representatives on twitter can be a sur real experience .
regrett ably , many of the news channels being watched through these dis hes are hostile to the west .
moreover , such projects would promote cooperation between the states in the eu ’ s southern neighborhood , potentially boosting investments in education , infrastructure , and industrial development .
sur mounting these business challenges is an expensive and slow process , and new ventures require many years to become cash- positive .
berlin – great speeches are all too often underestimated as being mere words .
the population sees little improvement in living conditions and expects western forces to leave after a few years .
the paradox of the current violence in israel , gaza , and lebanon is that the solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict is not hard to see .
true , the turkish military was not interested in governing directly , and handed power back to civilian governments after its coups .
a multifaceted region has yet to cryst alli ze into more definitive political construc tions .
it neither em its nor absor bs light significantly , which is why astronom ers failed to notice it for millennia , even though dark matter contributes five times as much to the total mass of the universe as normal matter .
by contrast , youth unemployment contributes relatively much more ( about 40 % ) to overall unemployment in countries like sweden and the uk .
where is the knowledge we have lost in information ? ”
but if individuals can do tests from which insurance companies are barred , and if those who receive adverse genetic information then buy additional life insurance without dis closing the tests that they have taken , they are cheating other holders of life insurance .
yet i do not see how to avoid such a comparison .
such conditions do not yet exist in a world where undemocratic states che at on legal obligations .
it is not positively good to have five cars rather than one .
they see arab ( not shiite ) blood being shed , with only hezbollah fighting back .
in fact , the chinese- appointed karm ap a lama has a d op p el g ä n ger karm ap a , who has set up shop in new delhi .
given such systemic deb asement of merit , few chinese citizens believe that they are governed by the best and the brightest .
we must re double our efforts to reach out in local communities and demonstrate the realities of our faith .
as a well-known skeptic about booming housing prices , i have been asked on several recent occasions to participate in debates with one or another of the authors .
his administration may pre ach the virtues of individual responsibility , but its program makes no provision for how and where the government is going to secure the resources needed to finance its promises .
true , germany ultimately acquies ced in a deal that would provide , if needed , a combination of bilateral loans from eurozone members and imf financing to prevent a greek default .
this brings us to the importance of stories – and very far from the kind of statistical analysis exemplified by stock and watson .
for now , people still must turn for solutions to their national governments , which remain the best hope for collective action .
some analysts have recently claimed that this is because the pursuit of gdp growth , job creation , and financial stability , as well as the establishment of priorities when there are tradeoffs , clearly requires political decisions , which should not be made by unelected officials alone .
the alliance helps interested partners with defense reform .
indeed , once separated from the constraints of religious dogma , the political branches of both parties dist anced themselves from their fundamentalist islamist roots .
nuclear disarmament ’ s asian pivot
turkey is also much less worried about its future than israel is .
the problem is that words like “ show ” and “ scheme ” suggest a deliberate creation , rather than a widespread social phenomenon that is not directed by any impres ar io .
copenhagen is the ven ue for the meeting .
president george w. bush ’ s second inaugural address set forth an ambitious vision of the role of the united states in advancing the cause of freedom worldwide , fueling worldwide speculation over the course of american foreign policy during the next four years .
even more significant , shifting income from state-owned enterprises to middle-class workers and increasing consumer spending will reduce china ’ s enormous saving rate .
annan inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq divided the world and drew attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical long-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water .
with few exceptions ( such as australia and new zealand ) , the vast majority of the world ’ s advanced economies are or will soon be in this category .
this is a boost for the imf , and it gives hope to emerging and developing countries that have been severely hit by a crisis that originated elsewhere .
but appearances can be misleading , and , in this case , they are misleading in a significant way .
that map has been in constant flu x for the last 60 years , during which the main players – egypt , iraq , saudi arabia , syria , israel , and iran – have formed and broken alliances .
as divergences become explicit , the demand for a wider political debate about monetary policy and for political involvement in its form ulation will become more intense .
let ’ s start with the us , the epicenter of the financial crisis , and still the most important economy in the world .
there are signs of a growing debate inside the country about whether to press ahead with nuclear weapons – and thus risk not only economic ruin , but also military attack – rather than to accept a diplomatic compromise .
mit tel euro pa revived and germany re unified .
in iraq , their equival ents were very often lat inos for whom integration into american society – including , for many , the promise of permanent residence or citizenship – was at least as important as toppling saddam hussein .
ro su kr energ o was established in the last months of the regime of our former ruler , leonid ku ch ma . yet it mirac ul ously gained control of all of ukraine ’ s gas imports from central asia .
s é gol è ne royal has turned the tables on the socialist party to become its standard bear er in next year ’ s election .
the white house and congress have also been acting to gut the 2010 do dd – frank wall street reform and consumer protection act , which strengthened the financial system in several ways , including by imposing higher capital requirements on banks , identifying “ systemically important financial institutions , ” and requiring more transparency in derivatives .
to organize discussion of these broader issues , the us and others should explore the possibility of appointing a special envoy – perhaps a former chief of state under un auspices – to engage iran in new ways .
but ncds are increasing for many other demographic and epidemi ological reasons as well – and understanding these has implications for health policy , and even for economic development .
national banking systems need a lender of last resort .
moreover , holding the congress in palestine ended the role of many fatah leaders who had opposed the oslo accords , such as far ou k q add ou m i and mahmoud jihad .
its leaders have a reputation for selling dangerous items such as missiles , narcotics , and counter fe it currency , and many worry that they might transfer nuclear materials to other countries or to terrorist groups .
in 2008 , for the first time in human history , two navigation channels through the polar ice field – in the east along siberia , and in the west along the canadian islands – were open for a few months , allowing boats to go from europe to japan or california via the bering stra its , rather than the panama canal or the horn of africa , thereby saving some 4,000 or 5,000 kilometers .
the mere threat could have held the syrian government hostage .
it is also undermining the opportunity to lay the basis for true democratic reform throughout the continent .
but what about the impact of politics on economics ?
yet other findings from several relatively well- to- do countries , such as south korea and the united states , suggest that people there are essentially no happier today than they were 50 years ago , despite a doubling or quadru pling of average per capita income .
despite the euphoria around shale gas – indeed , despite weak global growth – commodity prices have risen by as much as 150 % in the aftermath of the financial crisis .
the fund , having sw o op ed in to pl uck greece from the abyss , is ready to step back from the brink .
but imagine a world where textbooks and other learning materials are available to everyone for free over the web and at low cost in print .
thirty years after the re ag an- thatcher revolution , the ideological pendulum has begun to swing in the opposite direction .
and a condemnation of nazism could have been mis interpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life- and- death struggle with stalin ’ s communist regime .
instead , it would reaffirm them more than any previous ethical solution has ever done .
last year , the annual ibrahim index of african governance , produced by my foundation , showed that governance had improved in two-thirds of african countries .
as a result , palestinian negotiators have reversed their position on the step - by- step approach to negotiations – an approach that proved disastrous , as it was exploited by radicals on both sides and gave the israelis time to build more illegal settlements .
partly as a result of his efforts , neu ch at el was one of the four c ant ons in switzerland to vote against the ban on new min are ts .
so it is no surprise that cf c or fre on smuggling has developed without much attention , and risks jeopardizing the vienna convention and the montreal protocol .
he was a brave air man , with a fine war record .
the publicity and resulting panic surrounding the who ’ s announcement of phase 5 and 6 aler ts – especially in the absence ( until december ) of widely available vaccine – also brought out fraud sters pedd ling all sorts of ineffective and possibly dangerous protective ge ar and no str ums : glo ves , mas ks , di etary supplements , sham po o , a nas al san itiz er , and a spr ay that supposedly co ats the hands with a layer of anti- mic robial “ i onic silver . ”
at its high water mark , the us , with 5 % of the world ’ s population , accounted for close to 30 % of global gdp .
every year , an estimated two million people worldwide die prematurely , owing to the effects of breathing polluted air .
indeed , adjusted for inflation , the dollar is now nearly as low against the euro as it was against the deutsch mark in 1992 , when german unification resulted in the breakdown of the european currency system .
indeed , yeltsin was fear less , and sought not his personal survival , but the survival of the democratic idea that he introduced to russia .
those experiencing rising and now double-digit inflation will have to raise interest rates , while other high- inflation countries will lose export competitiveness .
without growth , the debt crisis – and the euro crisis – will only worsen .
something similar happened when j ay vac anti  , a surge on at massachusetts general hospital , and i had an idea in the 1980 ’ s to combine three- dimensional synthetic pol ym er sca ff olds with cells to create new tis su es and organs .
on the contrary , many of them , their reputations under water , have doubled down on those beliefs , apparently in the hope that events will , for once , break their way , and that people might thus be induced to forget their abysm al forecasting track record .
with historical perspective , lack of proper negotiations has been counterproductive in the north korean case .
for , if a two-state solution really is the future , a social and political earthquake of untold dimensions awaits israelis : a massive evacuation of settlers and a desperate need for a difficult political realignment to deal with the threat of civil strife and perhaps even military dis obedi ence .
phelps ’ economics remains one of action , not resignation .
australian premier john how ard has likewise openly mul led pre-emptive military strikes on terrorist sanctu aries in the region .
in evolutionary studies , because her itable non- genetic variations are often induced by the environment , we have to expand our notion of her ed ity and variation to include the inheritance of acquired variations , the once dispar aged idea that was part of lam ar ck ’ s theory .
austerity has similarly shar pen ed a long-standing crisis of statehood and political legitimacy in italy , reflected in the rise of a new anti-establishment party , the five star movement , which claims to transcend the traditional left- right political spectrum .
once central bankers undertook the necessary rescue of banks , perhaps they became ir remedi ably entang led in politics , which made quantitative easing an inevitable outcome .
property taxes , exc ise taxes , import duties , and sales taxes - all of which are paid , directly or indirectly , by corporations - can have a magnified impact on corporate profits , and hence on the stock market .
thatcher was often more careful than her admir ers have subsequently suggested in the way she set about doing this .
still , the conflicts between a hyper- globalized economy and social cohesion are real , and mainstream political elites ignore them at their peril .
mainstream media ( whatever that expression means anymore ) wo o viewers by enabling them to “ sound off ” at the press of a bu tton .
many people believe that it does , and seek to explain phenomena ranging from guerrilla insurg encies to islamist terrorism accordingly .
it demands early intervention to put children on a positive health path , together with an adequate social safety net throughout citizens ’ lives .
one is personality .
the second word that characterizes the last five years is acceleration .
indeed , the idea of a “ nuclear renaissance ” is a myth .
the populist billionaire and former prime minister , thaksin shinawatra , appeared to be different .
north koreans have suffered coercion for a long time , and although they are brain wash ed to be doc ile and loyal to kim ’ s dynasty , you just can not imagine how they will remain at the bec k and call of kim jong-un , who has no credentials , military or otherwise , to rule .
austerity ’ s advocates rely on one – and only one – argument : if fiscal contraction is part of a credible “ consolidation ” program aimed at permanently reducing the share of government in gdp , business expectations will be so encouraged by the prospect of lower taxes and higher profits that the resulting economic expansion will more than offset the contraction in demand caused by cuts in public spending .
he might also oppose khamenei directly , portr aying himself as a patriotic anti- clerical figure .
increased defense spending , together with the bush tax cuts , is a key reason why america went from a fiscal surplus of 2 % of gdp when bush was elected to its parl ous deficit and debt position today .
there is less equality of opportunity in the united states today than there is in europe – or , indeed , in any advanced industrial country for which there are data .
today ’ s summit meeting will give a new impulse to nato ’ s political evolution .
actual appreciation would lead to actual deflation and further downward pressure on domestic interest rates .
the central asian human development report , recently launched by the united nations development program , argues that the countries of central asia have a great opportunity to capitalize on their location at the center of a dynamic continent , their abundant natural resources , and their still- strong potential to forge a prosperous , stable , and cohesive region .
accordingly , they sought out those who were under- represented in the assembly , but whose sense of participation in and ownership of the process was essential , not merely to the constitutional exercise , but to binding the nation ’ s wounds .
first , a clear distinction must be drawn between membership of the eu and of the eurozone .
cambridge – when the stakes are high , it is no surprise that battling political opponents use whatever support they can gar ner from economists and other researchers .
so leaders ’ ability to take correc tive action increases only with time , as some of the costs of inaction are experienced .
as a result , considerable political energy may be consumed in pushing through measures that deliver very little .
although the least developed countries attract less than 3 % of north-south investments , these flows account for more than 3 % of their gdp , a level higher than the average for developing countries .
what policies reduce unemployment ?
but , for investment banks , shadow banks , and especially commercial banks ( with their expensive networks of branches and at ms ) , such a policy makes it very difficult to report regular and healthy operating profits on their quarterly income statements and regular and healthy gains in their clients ’ portfolios .
as the economies of the czech republic and other central and eastern european countries were rebuilt and began to grow again , emissions have naturally started to increase .
the authors had inadvertently om itted data , used a questionable weigh ting scheme , and employed an err on eous observation on gdp growth .
on the whole , i expect that the bailout policies of a more “ democratic ” imf would look much as they do now .
similarly , the centrist leader françois bay rou  , has proposed imposing a “ tobin tax ” ( named after its cre ator , the nobel laureate economist james tobin ) on financial transactions , with the proceeds to be used to support socially worthy causes .
the reform game
the regional route to global free trade
at the same time , the effect of currency appreciation on the trade balance should not be exaggerated .
brexit , they pledged , would return britain to a safer and more prosperous past .
it does not mean that britain will “ crash out ” of the european union with no agreement : deals in the european union tend to be struck at the last possible moment .
the eu- canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , took seven years to h ash out – and was almost scot ched by the parliament of belgium ’ s w all onia region .
for example , many have pointed out that theresa may , the conservative prime minister , campaigned poorly , and that poll sters ’ models underestimated turnout by younger voters .
if it tried to reject an exit deal , britain would simply leave the eu without one .
eu governments rightly insist on freedom of movement as a central pillar of the single market , and may ’ s nativist lur ch has already prompted merkel and other eu leaders , notably french president françois hollande , to take a tougher line with the uk .
bay rou  has never had it so good , but , barring the unlikely collapse of one of the two leading candidates ’ campaigns , he will fail to qualify for the second- round runoff .
it is cheaper to br ibe a government to provide resources at bel ow -market prices than to invest and develop an industry , so it is no surprise that some firms succumb to this temptation .
that is very good news indeed .
instead of suppressing the memory of the refugees , israel needs to recognize that in 1948 the land was bis ected by the sword , and that the jewish state came into being partly because of the massive upro oting and dis possession of palestinian communities .
indeed , a stronger currency can paradoxically feed external surpluses , while discouraging investment in export-oriented industries .
governments in rich countries for the most part looked the other way while japan , south korea , taiwan , and china protected their home markets , appropri ated “ intellectual property , ” subsidized their producers , and managed their currencies .
after 15 years of free-market policies , populists in warsaw , br atis lav a , and budapest want to bring back the state .
accordingly , the army ro de in promising democracy and free and fair elections .
only an international decision could have accomplished this .
then , in 193 4 , resentment against growing corruption led call es to choose an “ honest ide alist ” to become president , a young man who had fought for him early in the revolution , who he thought he could control but who would help the government regain popularity .
the prominent russian military analyst pa vel fel gen hau er insists that their prime aim is to finish off georgia and its president , mik he il saakashvili , who remains in power and def iant .
in the same period , nominal gdp soared by 3 48 % in brazil , 3 46 % in china , 3 31 % in russia , and 20 3 % in india , also in us dollars .
the attempt to impose a benevolent creditors ’ dictatorship is now being met by a debtors ’ revolt .
nevertheless , few researchers doubt that what h wang and his colleagues claimed to do is , in principle , achievable .
after all , over the past two decades , the enduring goals of dismantling communism and central planning , as well as joining the european union , have served as important driving forces of reform .
their problems are more basic : not dying from easily preventable diseases ; not being mal nourished from lack of simple mic ron u tri ents ; not being prevented from exploiting opportunities in the global economy by lack of free trade .
if the wel by case falls on the right side of the line drawn by roman catholic doctrine , the deeper question is whether church doctrine draws the line in a place that makes sense .
a sizeable reduction in aggregate demand through rmb appreciation is achievable without being im prudent , because the current-account surplus in 2007 was 9.5 % of gdp .
it ’ s modest at a time when the world is in recession .
meritocracy was young ’ s “ 1984 . ”
the rise of mid- level powers
but its approach to e- tail is poised to be one of the forces shaping the emerging-market internet revolution of the twenty-first century .
“ in delivering a better life for people on the ground , one should be more concerned with substance than with form , ” obama stated in an interview just before his inauguration .
when human rights watch declared last january that the iraq war did not qualify as a humanitarian intervention , the international media took notice .
securing popular legitimacy requires equal de x ter ity , which has played an important role in preventing north african leaders and family members from openly admitting their preparations for dynastic succ essions .
he wrote : “ so great has been the change [ in standards of living ] that many of the desires of the individual are no longer even evident to him .
in fact , of the seven swfs that control more than two-thirds of all swfs ’ assets , three are from asia ( one from china and two from singapore ) and three are from the middle east ( abu dhabi , kuwait , and qatar ) .
sixth , qe can create mor al- hazard problems by weakening governments ’ incentive to pursue needed economic reforms .
beijing – despite fluctuations , china ’ s overall economic growth has been stable over the last three decades , owing not only to the economy ’ s strong fundamentals , but also to the government ’ s successful management of cross-border capital flows .
unlike eu gen ic ists , proponents of altering mit och on dr ial dna simply hope to free future generations from deadly diseases .
new york – today ’ s sw oll en fiscal deficits and public debt are fueling concerns about sovereign risk in many advanced economies .
both syria ’ s reluctant alliance with iran , and its economic desperation , provide open ings that israel and the west should test .
rome – recently , i was on a road in the southern ch om a district of zamb ia to meet with ros em ary pis ani , a smallholder farmer and mother of eight who struggled to feed her children prior to joining a farmer ’ s cooperative to raise go ats .
typically , however , this type of aid declines very rapidly .
this , together with concerted action by governments elsewhere , will mean that the downturn will be less severe than it otherwise would be .
most important , while reliance on debt made financial institutions riskier , creditors knew that , in a crisis , the government would probably bail out the largest , if not all of them .
the global pri has arisen through countries ’ widespread accession to the world trade organization , international accounting and regulatory criteria like the basel accords , standards established by the international organization of securities commissions , and some aspects of international law .
but , while the debt was highly rated , how could anyone objec tively assess un secured and virtually un enforceable obligations ?
they seem guided by pure and simple sp ite .
but russia ’ s government still needs to set up a transparent and accountable structure to manage its sovereign wealth .
acupuncture was found to have no additional effect on motor recovery , but a small positive effect on disability , which may be due to a true plac e bo effect , or to the varied quality of the trials .
samu el johnson called patriotism “ the last refuge of a s coun dre l . ”
therefore , new publications and dynamic pages that change their content frequently are already beyond the scope of the popularity methods , and searching this material is vulnerable to ru dim entary techniques of manipulation .
china ’ s current-account surplus has declined , but now northern europe runs a $ 500 billion surplus , while demand in southern europe is collapsing and the us is running a deficit that is close to $ 500 billion .
with its publication , romania began to move away from its secur it ate- dominated past .
and it may be that europe – because of its relative prosperity – is less in a mood for the bi bl ical seven lean years than was a much poorer latin america in the 1980 ’ s .
in the bab ar n ama , for example , we see the internal contradictions in the personality of the founder of the mu gh al empire .
their objective was to damage further the israeli- egyptian relationship , which is already more fragile than ever , and they succeeded : the id f accid entally killed several egyptian soldiers during the incident .
nationalism , madness , and terrorism
today , they pursue the same goal with the help mainly of china , but also of iran , venezuela , and occasionally india and brazil .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers .
now suppose that you could tell people to whom you had sold their data .
he was asking the wrong question .
but such innovations have their limits .
this thought paved the way for the concept of a “ genetic program , ” akin to a computer program – a metaphor that became almost self- evident when the structure of dna was discovered , because dna could be vis u alized as a linear string of symbols , which is exactly what computers read as a program .
the interest rate on long-term bonds has been kept ab normally low in the past few years by the federal reserve ’ s “ unconventional monetary policy ” of buying massive amounts of treasury bonds and other long-term assets – so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) – and promising to keep short-term rates low for a considerable period .
but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery any time soon .
the grotesque idea of emb al ming chávez ’ s body was finally discarded precisely because of the damage suffered by the cor pse during its display to the masses in a chaotic exercise in political manipulation .
as the competition he ats up , we should expect amazing developments – and no doubt more public relations g im mic ks .
as some confidence returns in an eventually recapit alized banking system , and long bond yields decline with the fall in inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will fall and monetary transmission mechanisms will revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at a substantially lower level .
these people feared the comeback of religion ; that the protestant or catholic op pres siveness they knew first- hand might be replaced by equally oppressive muslim codes of conduct .
leaders are never bound to rise or fall by circumstances alone .
as so-called fifth generation leaders , they continue the steady progress in competence that has marked each of china ’ s leadership transitions since the emergence of deng xiaoping in the late 1970 ’ s .
studies are beginning to show that an animal ’ s environmental conditions can completely change the results of genetic studies .
growth will not resume until production costs in the indebted countries decline , which requires either a substantial permanent increase in productivity , a reduction in real wages , or both .
a new syria , based on democratic principles , would not only benefit syrians , but would be a force for stability throughout the region .
a senior eu official sp elled out what this means : there had been “ many cases in the recent past where either pakistanis were coming to europe or young eu citizens were going to pakistan for training and being brain wash ed . ”
the japanese police usually overlook private gambling that does not threaten public peace and order .
indeed , the only way truly to honor those who lost their lives is to create a new - model japan from the tsunami ’ s w reck age , rather than simply restoring towns and their economies to their previous decad ent conditions .
we do not exha ust our resources on weapons .
call it a “ reset ” bu tton – like the one then- secretary of state hillary clinton gave to lav rov in 2009 – or whatever one wants .
but the kremlin ’ s my op ic concentration on military matters , and its pointless attempts to play a zero-sum game with the west has turned russia into an object for manipulation by its junior partners .
without an all-out effort to do so , the terror ized population will not lend us support . ”
perhaps the most damaging outcome of these tactics is to take countercyclical fiscal policy off the table completely .
but many of them relap se and escape to yemen .
it just doesn ’ t work !
for my part , and for many years now , i have tried to highlight the swe et .
yet , while pledges to increase development assistance have soared , short-term funding is woefully inadequate .
at the same time , the ability to plan ahead in anticipation of the price increases would allow more effective responses , as farmers plant different crops , manufacturers switch to more energy-efficient equipment , and so forth .
ne st l é was the only company to achieve a “ fair ” rating , with associated british foods at the bottom , with a “ very poor ” rating .
only 24 countries , mostly tiny island states , maintain diplomatic relations , while all but one of the world ’ s major powers and all important international institutions , including the united nations , dance to the mainland ’ s tune on the issue .
yet , with even a little flexibility , the round could still succeed . the us administration ’ s heart has not been in this negotiation for a long time .
since mbeki ’ s ouster in september , the new south african government of k gal em a mot lan the has moved quickly to implement effective measures against aids .
indeed , 73 % said they had never experienced discrimination while living in america . moreover , 85 % said suicide bombing is rarely or never justified , and only 1 % said violence to defend islam was “ often ” permissible .
he spoke with a cold , disciplined energy .
developed countries should agree to channel considerable savings to developing countries to finance the scal e- up of sustainable investments .
indeed , it was thanks to the euro – and the captive european market that goes with it – that germany today is the world ’ s second- leading exporter ( china surpassed it in 2009 ) .
in his view , the post-crisis economic policies being carried out in the united states , europe , and japan are putting a ceiling on long-term interest rates that is “ much like the effect of a price ceiling in a r ental market where land lords reduce the supply of r ental housing . ”
japan ’ s unilateral revision of article 9 , viewed against the backdrop of its new nationalism , would isolate japan from virtually the whole of asia .
for example , the bush administration has been doing everything it can to hide the huge number of returning veterans who are severely wounded – 16 ,000 so far , including roughly 20 % with serious brain and head injuries .
the banks may remain too big to fail , but , with their chance of failing lower in a more bu oy ant economy , the immediate subsidy declines .
so let me broaden the debate and offer a more holistic perspective by covering three interconnected elements : defense transformation , operations , and the wider context of the international community ’ s efforts .
as arist o tle said : “ that which is true and better is naturally always easier to prove and more likely to persuade . ”
moreover , important figures in or close to the ruling justice and development party expressed their willingness to hold a dialogue with the protesters .
in addition , the military ’ s role as guarantor of stability , and its tight control of pakistan ’ s nuclear arsenal , the army ’ s crown je wel s , will continue .
but these attempts will almost surely fail ; in the end – though it may take years – cotton subsidies will be eliminated .
his health-care reform plan , as the massachusetts vote demonstrated , is perceived as a personal obsession and an entirely unnecessary distraction from much more urgent and vital concerns , such as the financial crisis and unemployment .
but their reactions have been generally muted by japan ’ s success in getting a us-led initiative at the g-20 to classi fy its policy response as constitu ting the use of “ domestic tools ” to pursue “ domestic objectives . ”
the list of shortcomings goes on and on .
today ’ s children did not play a role in any of these policy mistakes .
the second initiative came a month later .
between 1962 and 1985 , canc er- related deaths in the united states rose by 8. 7 % , despite the use of aggressive chemotherapy drugs and radiation therapy , highlighting the dangers of a one-size-fits-all approach to treatment .
trees stand mu te despite our betrayal .
the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity in european societies has become much harder to make .
it is impossible to imagine a continuous g ale of creative destruction taking place except in a context of boom and bust .
the un insists that resolution 17 0 1 does not mandate that the un dis arm hezbollah ; almost no nation other than israel is willing to charge its soldiers with that task .
the european union was the only group of nations that seriously considered implementing it .
this is a real accompl ishment in a country that was on a political roll er- coast er for most of its history .
in addition to inter state conflict and the proliferation of weapons – particularly weapons of mass destruction – new challenges have emerged , such as terrorism and the involvement of non-state actors in internal conflicts .
yet the two countries share similar national development goals : increasing their citizens ’ prosperity , narrowing social inequities , and addressing environmental sustainability .
to make the most of it requires a significant boost in mutual strategic trust .
anxious to distance himself from the legacy of the previous republican administration , he never mentions former president george w. bush and avoids mention of the two wars of the last decade .
in a few sentences of his victory speech – the space of a magic moment – obama celebrated “ the mystery of democracy ” in a very concrete , but also nearly religious manner .
the symptoms are there , even if the disease has not yet infected the entire body .
if it is 3 % , the required increase in annual tax revenues rises to $ 1.5 billion a year .
looking at the experience of more than 100 countries , i have found in my research that each 10 % under valuation adds 0.3 percentage points to growth .
ar on was born on march 14 , 190 5 , sar tre on june 21 .
this is especially urgent now , with the search for new energy sources and a “ renaissance ” of nuclear power .
but the rest of the world learned different lessons .
their research surely includes the young science of virtual enterprise management : how to nurture and support self- organizing cells .
the war against iraqi women
simply put , children in iraq have been reduced from human beings worthy of care to tools of production and instruments of violence .
and china ’ s dam building inside burma to generate power for export to chinese provinces has contributed to renewed bloody fighting recently , ending a 17 -year ceasefire between the k ach in independence army and the government .
us treasury secre tar ies have always loved to lecture their foreign colleagues on america ’ s economic perfec tion , and why every country should seek to emulate it .
some results are remarkable .
in any case , more attention was paid to the revelation that mitchell had sold 18 ,000 bank shares to his wife at a loss to evade taxes .
it is not always consistent or rational .
will the resent ful workers who must follow a computer ’ s instructions – say , in assem bling an order in amazon ’ s ful fill ment centers – vote to tax the program mers who put them there until the software creators lose the incentive to innovate , leaving society poorer ?
my peter sen institute colleague carmen rein hard t suspects that financial repression will be the main debt- reduction method : governments will rely on regulation and manipulation to force savers to pay down public debt through negative real returns on their bond investments .
in the united states , it is that great people composed of lat inos , eastern european jews , italians , asians , irish , and , yes , ang los still dre aming of ox for d- cambridge s cul ls now cle aving the waters of the charles river .
the world would also have seen why so many of us were roo ting for her .
it seems natural to draw connections among them , especially after a “ super storm ” shut down wall street this past october .
while italy , like germany and japan , has added demand , totaling $ 6 billion , spain has withdrawn $ 101 billion , the uk $ 50 billion and france $ 19 billion .
global growth averaged only 2.9 % in the most recent five-year period , well below the level for virtually any such multi-year period going back to 1971 .
fear of that strategy could cause investors to demand even higher real interest rates .
instead of encouraging new chur ch ills and aden au ers , the result might be new im it ators of hitler or stalin .
china and india have been cris s crossing the globe making financially and politically costly deals to try to lock up the output of new oil-producing countries .
that , combined with cutbacks at the state and local level , means that the first real manifestations of austerity ’ s impact will appear in 2012 .
the young general ’ s old tricks
which is to say , they provide an intellectual toolkit for looking at , say , the western world of 18 40 , but not necessarily the western world of 2016 .
in poland , for example , proposed new legislation would drastically restrict its availability .
its legitimacy and influence depend not on winning electoral majorities , but on its strong alliances with the military , bureaucracy , and judiciary in defense of a traditional hierarchy that places the king at its ap ex .
likewise , loose us monetary policy in the middle of the last decade helped to set the stage for the great recession by contributing significantly to an explosion of leverage and fueling the housing bubble that burst in 2007-2008 .
journalism is democracy ’ s comp ass ; we must find a way to rec ali br ate it .
the build-up of public debt in industrial countries ( which was rising bris kly well before the great recession pushed it to near- unsustainable levels ) reflects this kind of calculus .
the problem is not new .
amid allegations of endemic corruption , ratings down grades , corporate mal fe as ance , and deepening malaise among state-owned enterprises ( soes ) , south africa ’ s regional and international standing weakened .
with all scientific publications recorded digit ally , c itations can be counted instantly , allowing scientists to be ranked accordingly .
trump has so far kept america ’ s plutocr ats happy , through promises of unaffordable tax cuts , while mes mer izing his white working-class followers with executive orders to de port illegal immigrants and bar arrivals from muslim-majority countries .
amaz ingly , the party emerged from the crisis unified around deng xiaoping ’ s vision of a “ socialist market economy , ” and regained legitimacy with the urban population through implementing that vision .
another couple believes in “ self- directed learning ” to such an extent that one evening they went to bed at 11 p . m. , leaving their five- year-old watching her nin th straight hour of bar bi e videos .
in light of the “ failed policies ” of the past decades , he declared , “ a different approach ” would be needed .
the opportunity to implement a policy that is simultaneously sensible , flexible , gent le , and effective in advancing national and global goals does not arise very often .
likewise , increasing the supply of money relative to a fixed amount of output will lead to a decline in the purchasing power of money , as each currency unit buys fewer goods .
sevent y years ago next month , the nuclear bombs dropped on hiroshima and nagasaki opened the dark est chapter in the long history of humanity ’ s wartime horrors .
as congress re takes power , it is ra hu l gandhi , the 3 9- year-old great- grand son of the man who made that promise , who is the he ir - apparent to current prime minister manmohan singh .
fta ’ s can not substitute for multilateral liberalization .
by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions .
it encourages fundamental analysis of a company ’ s operations , and some advocates hope that a tobin tax would push firms themselves to focus even more on long-term value .
newborn infections , for example , could be further reduced by encouraging more pregnant mothers to visit health clinics for early monitoring and for check ups after delivery .
so anyone who talks about the consumer “ coming back ” – even after deleveraging – is living in a fantasy world .
it is also true that we do not have to buy any particular book or listen to an oper a .
many other countries have now identified extremism as their single most important challenge .
immigration did rank at the top , but , as blair noted in his speech , anti-immigration sentiment was mainly against multicul tural immigration , which had little or nothing to do with the eu .
globalization is intensifying and multipl ying this extremism .
thus , his announcement that he will leave downing street next year is no more than a reluctant acceptance of what has been reality for some time .
it also established a new tradition of stability in economic policy , continuing and reinforcing the previous conservative government ’ s commitment to fiscal discipline and low inflation .
too big to jail
but even if this scenario is possible in theory , it is unlikely to occur in practice .
in that possibility lies the well-being of us all .
for a group of people so committed to free markets and so en am ored of “ creative destruction , ” that is a question that urgently needs to be addressed .
to be sure , many have suggested that the current crisis represents a vital opportunity to overcome these tensions and build an ever- closer union , citing the belief of jean monnet , one of the european union ’ s main architects , that crises are critical to spur progress toward integration .
the islands , claimed by china , taiwan , vietnam , the philippines , malaysia , and brun ei , are valuable because of their oil reserves and commercial fishing industry .
by the same token , the new asian players must take into account the progress achieved in this regard in the latter half of the twentieth century .
critics of trade agreements have marsh aled countless anec do tes about the adverse effects of imports on wages and employment in affected communities .
failure to ratify the tpp in all 12 countries would be a major disappointment , not just because of the tremendous amount of effort that has gone into it , but also – and more important – because of the vast economic benefits it would bring to all countries involved .
similarly , the us treasury is legally required to determine if a country is intervening to an unfair and unreasonable extent .
but that would require the tpp to foster , not impede , the flow of knowledge around the pacific rim .
with only two ( or a few ) countries involved , negotiations are far more straightforward and often take less time .
allowing existing protectionist trade barriers to remain in place – or worsen – would not only deprive citizens in tpp countries of higher incomes ; it would also deal a damaging blow to international cooperation .
the us sovereign-debt market shows no similar evidence of having reached a limit yet .
what is required is a mechanism against “ social dumping ” that prevents poor labor practices in exporting countries from spil ling over to the importing country .
similarly , incomes around the world would rise significantly from liberalizing more global trade in both goods and services .
this is worth bearing in mind , given that the fed ’ s adoption of qe in 2008 ( which it continued to pursue until last year ) had the effect of weakening the dollar from 2009 to 2011 , prompting the same accusations of “ begg ar thy neighbor policies ” against the us that congres smen now level against others .
what precisely those reforms should be , however , remains subject to heated debate among china ’ s elites , policymakers , and disadvantaged groups , as well as foreign stakeholders .
new obstacles to free trade not only take us in the wrong direction ; they also undermine the best opportunity to transform the lives of billions of the world ’ s poorest people and realize benefits worth trillions of dollars every year .
not everyone agrees that protectionism is bad for the economy .
the us remains stuck in the time- worn mindset of a deficit sa ver with massive multilateral trade deficits and the need to draw freely on global surplus saving to support economic growth .
the scene is thus set for a sino-american showdown , with all of its weigh ty and un foreseeable geo- strategic implications .
when i have written in favor of freer trade and liberal immigration , i have been denounced as a “ curr y n igg er . ”
meanwhile , many university graduates – including a whopping 45 % in south korea – are struggling to find jobs .
if negotiators created a genuine free-trade regime that put the public interest first , with the views of ordinary citizens given at least as much weight as those of corporate lobbyists , i might be optimistic that what would emerge would strengthen the economy and improve social well-being .
the european union is still the place where economic and social institutions assure a better quality of life .
instead , qual itative applications of physics to chemistry and biology heigh ten interest and emphasize the connections .
anyone who raises legitimate concerns about any aspect of the tpp deal is immediately branded “ protectionist . ”
projected job losses would total some 7 7 1,000 across the tpp countries , including 4 4 8,000 in the us alone .
anniversary celebrations are always a good excuse for self- congrat ulation , and the rhetoric filling the air in the run-up to the rome summit suggests that this one will be no different .
in fact , there is a beauti fully simple action that municipal leaders can take to reduce both extreme heat and air pollution : plant more trees .
but he is also depic ting how people create their heroes .
“ inflation targeting ” also means the central bank follows certain specified rules .
this is a decline of two-thirds when expressed as a share of global output .
it ’ s not a completely crazy idea , but i just don ’ t see it .
but negotiations in response to bilateral trade imbalances may not always have positive effects .
after world war ii , high inflation in japan undermined confidence in the yen ’ s stability , leading many japanese to bar ter .
if those pushing for tax cuts stick to their guns and refuse to accept reality , their agenda , if enacted , would result in a significantly wider budget deficit , which would increase the national debt to unpreced ent edly high levels .
another is to ensure that companies pay taxes – perhaps by lowering the corporate-tax rate for companies that invest and create jobs in america , and raising it for those that do not .
and then there ’ s the fact that iran , unlike most of its regional adversaries , is a functioning democracy .
given its economic size and favorable geography , structural forces would likely have produced some form of american primacy in the twentieth century .
america and the world in transition
their pal aces were not just magn ific ent architec tural structures , but also ven ues for maintaining social control .
instead , we should look at trump ’ s own analysis of existing agreements in the context of his views on issues such as national security and working-class jobs and incomes .
but a serious problem will arise if trump attempts to use it to protect his family – not a far fetched scenario , given pending fbi investigations into his inner circle ’ s dealings with russia .
they discount the damp ening effect of nuclear weapons , which for more than four decades helped keep the cold war between the us and the soviet union from turning hot .
as it stands , it seems that trump is hoping to im press critics with headlines about what are actually small- bor e accomplishments .
and so it was – and then some .
another problem is that a stronger dollar would mean a massive wealth loss for americans , because the value of many foreign assets would go down , as my colleagues emmanuel far hi , g ita g opin ath , and ol e g it sk ho ki have discussed .
one reporter jo ked that the next press christmas party would be held at the recently opened trump international hotel down the street from the white house , and there would be a cash bar .
by contrast , bannon apparently wants to “ let trump be trump . ”
the decline of us influence , and the strengthening of china ’ s strategic clout , continues unab ated .
and treasury bonds are secure : the federal government has not fallen into arre ars on its debt since the disastrous war of 18 12 .
in north korea , all of this dictated from the top .
china has a significantly larger population than the us does , so it stands to reason that it will surpass the us in nominal size at some point ( unless it were trapped in a permanent state of poor productivity ) .
but the yale historian donald k agan has shown that ath en ian power was in fact not growing .
and his team has drafted additional executive orders that will reduce or even termin ate funding for international organizations and withdraw the us from multilateral treaties .
and trade and investment between taiwan and mainland china have flour ished .
and xi has plenty of policy tools available to ensure that the chinese economy does not suffer any serious damage from us tariffs .
but addressing this issue requires technical expertise and negotiating skill , not blunt threats based on inadequate knowledge .
on the contrary , the paris accord is very good for america , and it is the us that continues to impose an unfair burden on others .
it is too early to say what the trump administration will do when it comes to climate change .
while globalization , and the trade openness that underpins it , has the potential to enrich the entire global economy , so far the richest have captured a hugely disproportionate share of the gains .
ultimately , demand for imports would fall , as would the benefits for consumers and new tax revenues for the government .
since then , the administration has car ved out exemptions for certain us allies , while using the tariffs as a bargaining chip to extract concessions from others .
by july , the north was testing an inter continental ballistic missile capable of reaching the us , and it is believed that the country already possesses the capability to produce a min i at ur ized , ic b m- ready nuclear pay load .
like many israelis , i agree with trump that the international agreement reached with iran in 2015 is fundamentally a bad deal .
public officials are supposed to insulate themselves from private firms , lest they be corrup ted and engage in favor iti sm .
in each case , his gli b campaign slogans have run up against the hard reality of actually making policy .
if their managers fall prey to the same governance by id that trump has brought to washington , dc , they will lose , just as trump will lose .
the end result is under performance of the sa ver ’ s retirement account .
today , it could undertake similar swaps , but with countries facing large capital outflows , thereby slowing the dollar ’ s appreciation .
with foreign earnings growing and foreign corporate-tax rates falling , def err al has become increasingly attractive .
but the real global fault line is the italian economy , which has not grown for nearly a generation .
the potential upside to the tremendous uncertainty that many around the world feel is that we essentially are confronted with a clean s late .
even the republicans know that many of the aca ’ s key provisions , such as ensuring that people with pre- existing conditions can buy health insurance , are extremely popular .
in my view , it has virtually eliminated them .
nonetheless , they agree that emotional intelligence is an important component of leadership .
of course , even without effective international systems underpinned by a universal ethic and purpose , the international community will have to cooperate to tackle challenges as they arise .
“ my administration is putting an end to the war on coal , ” trump declared while signing the order .
but , while business leadership and collective action are needed to create a sustainable and inclusive economy ( a central message of our commission ’ s report ) , the private sector can not do it alone .
a trump presidency will lead to an epic geopolitical shift : for the first time since 1941 , europe can not rely on the us defense umbrella ; it now stands alone .
the french and german governments recently decided to move ahead on a plan jointly to develop a new fighter j et , which is certainly a good first step . but one should not expect to see any spectacular cooperative achievements in the immediate future .
given that the republicans also control both houses of congress – and will soon make many judicial appointments – there is virtually no effective constraint on the executive branch .
under these circumstances , any act that undermines the fed ’ s independence could seriously damage the institutional framework upon which us economic strength rests .
his famous “ base ” is well under 40 % of the public .
exactly how the latter will be consulted on the calibr ation of risk weights in the basel accord is not sp elled out .
trump will also have to deal with courts , which already ruled against his early executive order to bar entry to the us by anyone from seven muslim-majority countries .
different attitudes toward risk are a central factor in the per ennial controversy over how much stimulus is optimal .
under normal circumstances , violent behavior is restrained by laws and social norms .
throughout his business career , he has frequently invoked libel laws .
after all , the us played a leading role in the defeat of both nazi germany and the soviet union , two of the most brutal regimes in world history .
( thucydides himself was an ethical realist . )
it would be a mistake , for example , to limit canada ’ s lum ber exports to the us on the grounds that the canadian government subsidi zes them .
to be sure , this does require some passing acqu ain t ance with the us constitution , where the electoral college is defined .
likewise , though ronald reagan portrayed himself as a staunch supporter of free trade , his administration succumbed to protectionist political pressure .
but while this assistance has done plenty of good , the attached strings are tying our hands .
the ongoing north korea crisis implies that the us-china relationship during the trump- xi era will be one of intense strategic competition .
the question is whether it can work in the real world .
rather , the greatest risk to the us is that it could forget the principles and institutions that have shor ed up its global leadership .
by and large , the most successful bankers in recent years have been exactly the types of experts trump seems to avoid .
as so crates approaches the court , he runs into his friend eu th y ph ro , a young man who is on his way to the same place to prosecute his own father for the sl aying of another man .
and , relative to the likes of trump , putin does not look so bad at all .
of course , trump ’ s distrust of experts is far from unique nowadays .
none of these responses is constructive .
in recent weeks , israel has cl ashed with iranian forces in southern syria to show that it will not allow iran to establish a presence there .
to restore it , trump ’ s “ america first ” campaign is framed around an explicit endorsement of protectionism , underscored by the ha unting words of his inaugural address : “ protection will lead to great prosperity and strength . ”
but that didn ’ t stop trump from refusing in october to “ rec er tify ” the jcpoa .
that was certainly true after the two iraq wars .
evil has indeed often been the agent of good ( without hitler , no united nations , no pax americana , no european union , no taboo on racism , no dec ol onization , no keynesian economics , and much else ) .
as defenders of a non- exclusive , righ t s- based creed , liberals are compelled to medd le in the affairs of other countries whose policies don ’ t accord with liberal values .
needless to say , not everyone is as optimistic as trump .
the simple truth is that saudi arabia can not distance itself from the palestinian cause and allow other countries like turkey and even iran to carry the banner .
of course , that is not how trump ’ s administration presents it .
if the new crown prince is worried about his domestic political standing , he will be reluctant to stand shoulder to shoulder with an american president seen as too close to an israel that is unwilling to satisfy even minimal palestinian requirements for statehood .
and , more to the point , they were successful : their eventual assassination of con rad of mon t fer r at led directly to the political collapse of the crus ad er coalition and the defeat of richard the lion heart of england .
more to the point , he will explain the logic of why sanctions must be suspended before he can even start to lay the groundwork for denuclearization .
despite these different possible interpretations , the trump administration seized on kim ’ s statements as a sure sign that north korea is ready to dis arm .
instead , trump will win praise for “ forcing ” china into a negotiation that it never resisted and averting the risk of a trade war that he himself created .
third , this undesirable policy mix of excessively loose fiscal policy and tight monetary policy will tighten financial conditions , hurting blue-collar workers ’ incomes and employment prospects .
explaining these unexpected responses could provide a glimpse of what the next few months have in store for markets .
he wants to make it even smaller , and to avoid granting fundamental sovereign rights , such as control over land , air , water , and border cross ings .
san j ose , california – mar co pol o , the famous thir teenth-century vene tian mer chant , was one of the first europeans to trade with china .
but let us take at face value , if only for the sake of argument , that the trump administration wants to renegotiate nafta in good faith .
that has made mexico an attractive location for assem bling asi an- produced content into final manufactured goods for sale in the us or canada .
but trump showed little interest in following up on the attack with diplomacy .
before they became obsessed with iran and the muslim brotherhood , arab leaders often began meetings with us officials by ra iling against israel .
meanwhile , an un holy alliance has formed among shia zeal ots , represented by iran and hezbollah , and a russian government committed to unraveling the post-cold war order and radically changing the strategic game in the middle east .
as it stands , both countries suffer from a gap between workers ’ skills and available jobs .
finance is complex , and a lot of dev ils could be , and were , hidden in the details .
on that , parti s ans of all political persu asions can agree .
for its part , nato does have a deeply integrated command structure for the forces that are assigned to it .
the fate of the 12- country trans-pacific partnership trade agreement seems already to have been sealed , with trump as suring the public that he would shel ve that deal – concluded but not ratified by the us senate – on his first day in office . this is unfortunate , as the tpp would have revolutionized intellectual property rights and boosted transparency to unprecedented levels , while lowering tariff and non-tariff barriers .
( because deputy attorney general ro d ro sen stein must make the call to dismiss mueller , and has said that he sees no reason to do so , trump would first have to fire ro sen stein , which would look too much like the satur day night massacre , the turning point in nixon ’ s presidency . )
trump may not like it , but he must call out kim ’ s dupl icity , especially given the latest intelligence .
as many have pointed out , the terrorism list is by no means a complete comp en di um of countries whose security services may have been involved with terrorist groups .
to be sure , pakistan could respond to such sanctions by blocking america ’ s over land access to afghanistan , thereby increasing the cost of re supplying us forces by up to 50 % .
and he signed off his tweet announcing that he had made a decision on the paris accord with the words , “ make america great again ! ”
in this sense , are we living in the é po que of trump , in which trump ’ s revival of the “ america first ” slogan of the american nazis in the 1930s has encouraged a loosening of bigo ted t ong ues ?
the president ’ s daughter , iv an ka trump , is spear heading the effort .
the benefits are diminishing with the rise of the euro and china ’ s renminbi as competing reserve currencies .
democracies require leaders to answer too many questions , jump through too many ho ops , and face too much resistance .
martin luther king , jr. benefited from growing up in an african-american church tradition rich in the rhy th ms of the spoken word .
only in a full-blown crisis can popular opinion effectively determine who becomes leader .
arguments that it was necessary , or even “ optimal , ” to ske w financial support from the government toward banks and their executives are not persuasive ( at least , not outside wall street ) .
its leader ra ils against foreigners , er ects various import barriers , and pushes for low interest rates and lots of cheap credit for favored sectors .
more important , who would want it to work ?
and , of course , trump will still claim that the us economy can grow at a rate of 4 % , even though all mainstream economists , including republicans , agree that the potential growth rate will remain around 2 % , regardless of his policies .
responsible journalists report that trump white house aides ( who are notoriously si ev e- like ) say the us president feels alone and cor nered .
we should ignore his impe tuous accusations and relentless contradictions .
in the case of a business , this means a larger profit margin .
if trump really is concerned about national security , then one wonders why the us is not keeping ore in the ground as a strategic reserve for future hostilities .
consider , for example , his repeated claims that the vague outcome of his meeting with north korean leader kim jong-un constitutes an end to the nuclear threat posed by kim ’ s regime , or his blatant lie that democrats , rather than his own policies , caused the forced separation of migrant children from their parents at the southern border with mexico .
new york – most of the world has spent the last two years thinking that russian president vladimir putin is twi sting his us counterpart , donald trump , around his little finger .
roosevelt ’ s lies in 1941 were intended to awak en the american people , but he also set a precedent that lyndon b . johnson could use in 1964 to win congressional support for the gulf of t on kin resolution , which led to a dramatic escalation of the vietnam war .
the second insight from psychological research , summar ized by bru ce hood in his recent book the self illusion , relates to the role of consciousness in decision-making .
despite the republicans ’ big win in november 2016 , us president donald trump ’ s ability to pass legislation still depends on what congressional republicans expect to see happen in the november 2018 midterm election .
media outlets provided as much as $ 2 billion worth of free coverage , helping him grab and hold leads in polls and most primaries .
in poland , for example , the far-right law and justice ( pis ) government has already tried to ban abortion , even in cases where the mother ’ s life is in danger .
the new legislation adds insult to injury : rather than offsetting this disturbing trend , the republicans ’ “ reform ” gives even more to the top .
trump proposes a “ deal ” to lift western sanctions on russia in exchange for an agreed reduction in nuclear stockpiles .
the world is only slowly coming fully to terms with the mal evol ence of the trump administration ’ s agenda .
for example , the volcker rule can be expected to come under great pressure from goldman sachs and its many alumni now serving in senior us government posts .
of course , if one of america ’ s relatively small allies tried to confront the us over its actions , it would face high costs and a low chance of success .
in the last 25 years , foreign- aid programs have helped usher in an era of unprecedented progress in the developing world .
generally speaking , the best policies should take both perspectives into account .
at worst , it could very well spark retaliatory measures that will only exacerbate the plight of beleaguered middle-class american consumers .
a possible compromise could be found by creating a new euro- british entity , one that would guarantee the rights of both sides ’ citizens while allowing some limits on immigration as well as on some goods .
policies such as border carbon adjustment are not narrow -minded national protectionism , but a necessary reaction by countries committed to climate protection .
until a few years ago , the chinese government was using the peoples liberation army ’ s ( pla ) sophisticated cyber skills to infiltr ate american companies and steal technology .
first , trump appointed bannon to the national security council ’ s highest body , the princip als committee .
for decades , no currency has been more widely used than the dollar .
to be clear , the problem is not with summits per se .
the new york times and the washington post have both called trump a li ar .
over the past 7 0- odd years , the g att / wto system has developed into a multilateral arrangement whereby the same rules apply to all countries alike .
as ro ber ts points out , trump ’ s move toward protectionism this year is at odds with his earlier policy achievements .
the imbalances and inequities generated by the global economy can not be tackled by protecting a few politically well- connected industries , using manifest ly ridic ulous national security considerations as an excuse .
the flip side of the 1980s boom was that interest rates rose dramatically .
trump ’ s escalation of the trade war over the course of 2018 appears to have had the effect on the dollar predicted by economic theory .
it even gu ides our personal relationships .
inequality would widen , with great wealth for the few and low wages for the many , followed by a traumatic bust – in which the wealthy again do fine , the middle class is ground down to poverty , and the social safety net is ri pped to sh reds .
the election of donald trump as us president , however , threatens this entire system .
as harvard university ’ s larry summers and barry eichengreen of the university of california at berkeley , have observed , it is almost as if trump ’ s economic strategy – if one can call his vague and vac ill ating statements that – has been designed to reduce manufacturing employment in america further .
but the us did not wait for a wto ruling to confirm its claim and to author ize the imposition of tariffs as a penalty for china ’ s rules violation .
moreover , while the trump administration ’ s modest growth- boosting policies are already behind us , the effects of policies that could hamper growth have yet to be fully felt .
according to a 2006 report by the us-china business council , the 500,000 manufacturing jobs lost over the subsequent four years would be offset by the same number of new service- sector jobs .
this is minor stuff .
turning trade into a weapon of mass economic destruction could be a policy blunder of epic proportions .
turkey was a functioning democracy that had achieved middle-income status .
but for nearly everyone else , trump ’ s un predictability is an al bat ross .
likewise , trump is introducing his steel tariffs after the price of steel has already increased by about 130 % from its tr ough , owing partly to china ’ s own efforts to reduce its excess capacity .
but the most vital check on power in a democracy is the people .
and he re prised a longstanding complaint within us foreign- policymaking circles : that it is somehow excessive and unfair to expect american taxpayers to pay for 22 % of the un ’ s total budget .
of course , the trump administration might actually want a weaker dollar , and to let others assume the role of global safe haven .
contrary to trump ’ s accusations , pakistan has made steady , albeit slow , progress over the last decade , both in combating terrorism and in consolidating democratic institutions .
but representation is never simply a mechanical response to pre- existing demands .
the us rarely arrests senior businesspeople , us or foreign , for alleged crimes committed by their companies .
the hardline approach is initially popular with much of the us public , but invariably ends in gr ief .
donald trump meets davos man
the crucial point is that this imagin ary war ended up being the rationale for government decisions .
leftist thinkers have often claimed that fascism was the last stage of capitalism .
likewise , if economists had listened to their critics who warned about currency manipulation , trade imbalances , and job losses , instead of sticking to models that assumed away such problems , they might have been in a better position to counter excessive claims about the adverse impact of trade deals on employment .
on trade , trump wants to curtail chinese exports to the us , presumably by imposing higher tariffs on chinese goods and pres suring us and international manufacturers to move their production facilities to america .
after all , we haven ’ t heard much from the north koreans in a while .
i can not see how a negotiation aimed at getting iran to renounce unilaterally a right recognized for all npt signatories simply in order to build confidence in the west could be successful .
indeed , with few exceptions , the same ministers have returned to the same offices as part of an administration backed by the same odd pair of parties ( the left-wing syriza and the smaller right-wing independent greeks ) , which received only a slightly lower share of the vote than the previous administration .
but while treating most tb cases costs just $ 21 per person for drugs , this does not account for the cost of improving detection of tb and other aspects of the health system .
unemployment is falling , but it remains high , at more than 15 % – and higher still among the young .
for the last 43 years , this perspective has been largely defined by turkey ’ s interest in joining the european union and by the eu ’ s promise of accession .
( turkey ’ s western allies continue to oppose the proposal , lest they be dragged into an all-out confrontation with the syrian regime and its russian and chinese allies . )
the same failed coup that erdoğan cites as grounds to im prison brun son has also served as an excuse for de taining thousands of others .
this hardly makes for an attractive environment for investors or visitors .
this is a dangerous brew for the leader of an emerging economy to im bi be , particularly when the united states itself has embarked on a ronald re ag an- style fiscal expansion that has pushed the us federal reserve to raise interest rates faster than it would have otherwise .
western observers and the bulk of domestic liberals did not give up on erdoğan until his government ’ s heavy-handed tactics during the ge zi park protests in istanbul in the summer of 2013 .
indeed , as a regional power , it has a responsibility to work to ease tensions and promote conflict resolution .
in the end , erdoğan ’ s justice and development party ( akp ) regained its comfortable parliamentary majority .
but an akp that returns to its found ational vision of enabling economic mobility – that is another story .
indeed , it is bizarre that the capital of an eu member country is divided by a dead zone pat rolled for decades by united nations peacekeeping troops .
the wa it- and- see approach adopted by many turkish security officials ended up landing some in jail .
turkey ’ s opposition to empowering the kurds has been a source of tension with its traditional ally , the united states , which believes the kurds are the only force on the ground capable of fighting isis .
still , the akp can be satisfied that after five years in office its popular support has climbed , while the opposition has been shown to be incapable of challenging it seriously .
erdoğan has benefited greatly from gülen ist support , yet he de tests sharing power and remains suspicious of the movement .
euro- skepticism is now at an all-time high in turkey , fueled by some european political leaders ’ rhetoric opposing turkey ’ s accession , and by the eu ’ s own failure to dis pel doubts about the fea sibility of turkey ’ s eventual membership .
we are determined to solve their remaining problems , and we believe that we can do so through mutual trust and cooperation .
erdoğan en visions putting the constitutional changes and the terms of peace to a national referendum , a link age that would transform turkish politics .
gü l ’ s ascent to the presidency should consolidate the transformation of turkish politics .
despite these two decisions , it might have been possible for the turkish security forces to continue protecting the country from both islamist and kurdish terrorism .
i consider anti-semitism , islam ophobia , and prejudice against christianity crimes against humanity , whose common values and ethical rules obli ge us to confront and reject all forms of discrimination .
it made it harder for foreigners to access lira liquidity , thereby squeezing speculators that had shor ted the currency .
if trump is to break with the past and earn the credit he is claiming , the us must find a new way to achieve its security goals without deploying entire divisions .
it is against this bitter backdrop that a new afghan president will be elected and the withdrawal of forces carried out .
moreover , the academy of science established a group of leading scientists , who were immediately dispat ched to the chernobyl region .
mexico ’ s left refuses truly to embrace market economics , representative democracy , and the rule of law .
western companies can promote internet freedom from the outside , by providing useful technology as well as the keys to access it .
no one has yet reliably quanti fied the boost to wellbeing that such technological advances produce .
the picture that emerges is one of a mixture of colors .
power may be increasingly illusory in a globalized world , but it is an illusion that is shared by others , and the longer one in habits it , the more one ’ s circle consists of others who share the belief .
there were peop le- to- people links . there was a forum where israelis and their long-term arab foes could sit together and discuss other matters than the west bank and the gaza strip .
still , constructing a welfare state fit for new economic conditions is a task that must be undertaken .
karl marx would have been proud of them , but it was the pope ’ s por trait that hun g on the gate of gd ans k ’ s lenin shi py ard during the strike .
any man who would frame the four death sentences he had received ( one signed by khrushchev , another by y uri and ro po v , the soviet ambassador in budapest in 1956 ) and hang them in his drawing room has the sort of qu ir ky hum or i rel ish .
“ for re ster predicts that a i- enabled automation will eliminate 9 % of us jobs in 2018 , ” decla res one headline . “ mckinsey : one-third of us workers could be jobless by 2030 due to automation , ” secon ds another .
the involvement of most , or all , current and future eurozone countries would enhance the group ’ s coherence , making it easier to win public support for cooperation in other areas .
under wolfowitz , the world bank failed to introduce any serious governance reforms to reflect the rising economic power of asia .
we live in a tough neighborhood .
uber ’ s software , in a sense , does the job of thousands of wal ra sian auc tion e ers acting locally in space and time , leading to almost perfect price discrimination .
the refuge e- run education programs in ky ang wal i are examples of what can happen when young people are given the tools to manage their own destiny .
of course , uk farmers will face increased hardship from losing the eu market , which accounts for more than half of what they export .
if the uk really wants to become an exporting superpower , it should be welcoming immigrants , and working to ensure that its immigration process is smo other than that of its rivals .
david cameron ’ s europe
we could also use this moment of leadership to advocate for a more cooperative approach to international development and conflict resolution , including a modern european- led marshall plan for north africa and the middle east .
many deny that they would even consider such a thing .
employment is increasing in some of these areas , notably the northwest .
indeed , ukraine ’ s struggles highlight the need for an agreed framework to resolve sovereign-debt difficulties and govern imf lending .
but while the imf has projected 2.9 % gdp growth for 2017 – and annual growth of 4 % by 2020 – annualized growth in the first half of this year was just 2.5 % .
keeping europe ’ s eastern promise
the deterioration in ukraine ’ s position between the two ceasefire agreements – min sk i , negotiated last september , and min sk ii , completed in february – shows the extent of putin ’ s success .
but if ukraine ’ s government and the west remain united , the kremlin might see that its enclaves in donbas represent a threat mainly to russia itself .
one reason why the crisis in ukraine has proved so difficult to overcome is that its roots stretch far outside the country ’ s borders .
a political or diplomatic solution would be next to impossible .
the real cause of ukraine ’ s inflation is that its currency , the hr y v nia , remains pegged to the us dollar .
we will be guided , and bound , by the rule of law – and the spirit of ordered liberty that anim ates it .
these crony capitalists argue that , if they are left alone to develop their assets , they will make the country prosperous .
of course , our orange forces are not perfect , and viktor yanukovych – who again opposes ukraine ’ s democrats – is not stalin rein carn ated .
moreover , it granted russian citizenship to abk ha z and south osse tian residents , and then justified its recent invasion of georgia on the grounds that it had an obligation to protect russian citizens .
south africa ’ s government did much the same in 2014 .
this served to prevent any mobilization of the 48 % of the voters who had voted “ remain ” and who , contrary to the expectations of most professional politicians , remain strongly opposed to brexit .
it is at that point when britain ’ s insul ar political debate will come face to face with the real world .
yet the un should not be written off .
the truth is that the central bank would struggle to defend its independence once the taboo of monetary financing of government debt was violated .
on the other hand , the corporate sector remains subject to serious vulnerabilities .
they believe that a better version of this de facto “ muddled middle ” can be achieved through a game of “ chicken . ”
there , the global public will be presented with a narrative premis ed on two un proven forms of “ geo engineering , ” proponents of which seek to manipulate the planetary system .
indeed , the idea of a ubi has made recur rent appearances in history – starting with thomas pain e in the eighteenth century .
ethiopia has developed a sophisticated data- management system to help guide its efforts to address not only drought but also other natural hazards .
indeed , by now the fed , the bank of england , the bank of japan , the ecb , and a variety of smaller advanced economies ’ central banks , such as the swiss national bank , have all relied on such unconventional policies .
to reach a target of 4 % inflation , they might have to implement even more unconventional monetary policies over an even longer period of time .
economic growth permits conflict between social actors to be pap ered over .
instead , he will use russia to help him manage the middle east .
at the turn of the century , there were more than 50 % more low-skill workers than university graduates .
historical context is crucial to assessing the dok do issue .
a possible package could be something like cold war “ gr it , ” or gradual reduction of international tension : the us as sures china of its limited goals and agrees to coordinate its actions with the chinese .
in normal times , deficits crowd out private investment ( and perhaps crowd in private saving and/or foreign capital ) , and hence reduce future growth .
maybe the electoral college isn ’ t such a peculiar idea , after all .
there can be no bright future for the middle east without an intellectual reconstruction that re- establishes the values of ideological openness , diversity , and acceptance of others ’ view points , whether intellectual , cultural , or religious .
the asia-pacific region accounts for roughly 55 % of the world ’ s population and 44 % of its annual income but has just 20 % ( three out of 15 ) of the seats on the security council .
about a third of young people around the world pursue a college degree or advanced training ; but , despite scholar ships and other incentives , the percentage of refugees who do so is a mere 1 % .
soon afterwards , the newly created un , established with the express purpose “ to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war , ” took the threat posed by nuclear arms as its first priority .
this opens the way for even more death , destruction , and suffering , while dis cred iting the world order to which we sol em n ly committed when the un was established .
now , however , another american president has come to be frustrated with pakistan .
on the wider foreign policy and security front , china in 2019 is likely to “ de- conflict ” itself in its relations with other countries , given the core strategic challenges posed by the us .
economists tend to dispute trump ’ s answer to the second question .
and the increase has been more marked for women , who tend to live an average of three years longer than men .
unfortunately , when it comes to constraining china ’ s expansi onism , trump seems just as clu eless as his predecessor .
con currently , an fta comprising asean , japan , and also with south korea is being negotiated .
this includes the mutual recognition agreed by the plo and israel , as well as the oslo accords .
as the global health community works to implement the united nations sustainable development goals , including sdg 3 – which targets achievement of wellbeing for all by 2030 – costa rica offers a model to consider em ulating .
some us states are already ahead of others on this front .
universities , summers points out , should “ be bulwar ks for honest , open debate as a route towards greater truth . ”
but the headline figures often mask longer-term problems – not least , an over- reliance on natural resources and chronic inequalities .
the largest scope for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive sectors in which government has a major presence as regulator .
but a respected literary agent told me that using graphs was a bad idea , because only a small share of people absorb quantitative information better when it is presented vis ually .
trump , by contrast , won the presidency while losing the popular vote by a wide margin .
the “ democratic energy ” of norway may constitute too distant a goal , but russia ’ s role as a predictable energy supplier requires ending the reign of corruption .
this means establishing a comprehensive doctrine of prevention , one that emphasizes robust long-term policy planning so that the organization can prevent , or at least prepare for , future crises , rather than merely reacting to situations as they emerge .
but china will lose even more face if it is shown to have pir ated the shin kans en technologies that it now claims as its own .
but there is a hit ch : eastern europe must avoid attracting a russian veto .
without good leadership , any organization – even the un – is destined to fail .
the idea that the us is a status quo power is a delusion of inter national- relations experts . in the short run , of course , the us beha ves like an ordinary power .
similar results have been shown in ecuador , india , and uganda , as well as in international humanitarian relief programs .
moreover , in a country where excessive debt is a growing concern , foshan ’ s loan- to-gdp ratio in 2011 was only 85 % – far less than the national average of 1 21 % .
for example , our data imply that jakarta ’ s ho v restrictions were more effective than london ’ s congestion pricing or delhi ’ s ev en- odd policy .
they are also highly effective at combating the “ urban heat island effect , ” which can result in dangerously high summer temperatures .
we already have the means to start upgrading and repairing the country ’ s transportation , power , water , and communications infrastructure .
at a time when six of the world ’ s ten largest armies are located in the pacific theater of operations , and 22 of the region ’ s 27 countries have army officers as their defense chiefs , the need to invest in the us army ’ s mission in the region is clear .
likewise , to y ota “ has built its own advanced manufacturing techn ic ian program to provide a pathway for students seeking careers at the company . ”
restrictions on technology transfers and linkages , often justified by national security concerns , would give rise to competing and incompatible standards .
it will have to sacrifice some economic growth .
but it also reflects china ’ s long-term strategy to cement its position in one of the world ’ s most attractive emerging markets .
china ’ s leaders recognize that , after decades of globalization , countries are too deeply intertwined , through both supply chains and knowledge networks , to go it alone .
the resulting systemic cr acks could jeopardize the entire rules-based multilateral trading system at a time when there is no good alternative .
as a rule , they serve the interests of powerful and well- organized special interest groups that are likely to resist any change .
this declaration of a “ return to asia ” marked the start of the famous “ pivot ” to the pacific in us foreign policy – a shift away from the middle east that was intended to meet the challenges posed by china ’ s growing geopolitical ambitions .
but two disruptions undermined these benefits .
to be sure , the guarantee that the us , as the issu er of the dominant international reserve currency , can acquire low-cost funding for its fiscal deficit and national debt amounts to what former french president val é ry gis card d ’ est a ing famously called america ’ s “ exorbitant privilege . ”
likewise , if they keep the senate , conservative federal judges will continue to be confirmed .
the first step in acting to advance our common interests is to identify and pursue concrete , practical , near-term initiatives designed to reduce risks , rebuild trust , and improve the euro-atlantic security landscape .
according to a broader ( and more appropriate ) definition , which includes part-time employees seeking full-time jobs and marginally employed workers , the unemployment rate for the united states as a whole is 1 0.3 % .
for three years , repeated warnings that such an attack is imminent have fl own in the face of the evidence : us treasury securities remain a saf e- haven asset for global investors , including risk- sensitive foreign central banks .
obama now has a chance to define the united states ’ role in the international system for years to come .
the significant loss of current and future potential output is all the more remarkable , because it has occurred despite a sustained and unprecedented effort by the fed to boost demand and hasten the recovery .
cambridge – health-care reform is the major policy issue commanding attention in the united states .
now that the justice department has stepped in , we can only hope that this story will have a happy ending , and that the courts will recognize that these mergers are anti competitive and immensely harmful to consumers .
a tougher building code means that , in the event of a flood , buildings are more likely to stand .
indeed , in a sense , the world ’ s largest economy is falling apart .
en listing these medical social-media super stars to educate the public on the urgency of antimicrobial resistance is an exciting opportunity .
moreover , this winner-take-all system fails to account for the fact that scientific work is largely carried out by research teams rather than individuals .
after all , the potential effect of interest-rate hikes on the us yield curve has a major impact on the pricing of all global assets .
all countries – both developed and developing – have been losing billions of dollars in tax revenues .
the entire world is specul ating about what will happen , and , depending on who has appointments at trump tower that day , the mood os c ill ates between concern and panic .
today is no different – at least at the state and local level .
and even if us parts producers were to expand production , they would be inclined to autom ate as much of it as possible , rather than hire more workers .
budget limitations pose some of the greatest challenges to the us military ’ s efforts to maintain its technological edge .
digitization could create $ 5.1 trillion in economic value for the us by 2025 , while significantly lowering unemployment .
and if i buy a bigger home or just increase the size of my mortgage , i receive a larger deduction that reduces my taxable income , lowering my tax bill .
in america , the federal reserve is bound to become much more politicized as a result .
if inflationary pressures rise – unlikely any time soon , but possible when the global economy gains strength – the fed ’ s response will be a key determinant of economic stability .
and some , i assume , are good peop le . ” – sent his popularity soaring , to the mor tification of many republican leaders .
with this in mind , mc connell decided that continuing to block president barack obama 's initiatives , as the republicans had done during the previous six years , could no longer work .
in a world of instant mass communications , countries are judged by a global public fed on a diet of relentless online news , smartphone videos , and twitter gos si p .
such an approach would reduce incarceration and reci div ism rates – and drastically cut the onerous social , economic , and moral costs of imprisonment .
during the most recent downturn , the fed lowered the benchmark rate from over 5 % in july 2007 to just 0. 16 % in december 2008 , a total reduction of more than five percentage points .
cor ker , too , has presented himself as somehow apart from the trump ian m ire .
in fact , the differences are huge , and many are rooted in the kingdom ’ s internal attitudes and policies .
corporations , however , are just learning how to use these agreements to their advantage .
this concern is a first cou sin to the old mercantilist focus on whether a policy will improve or worsen the trade balance .
why haven ’ t growing reliance on data analytics and aggressive trading meant that , as markets become more efficient over time , all remaining opportunities to secure abnormal profits are compe ted away ?
indeed , those past newspaper reports often didn ’ t mention any time period at all in their definitions of a bear market . journalists writing on the subject apparently did not think it necessary to be precise .
in this scenario , the risks of default and del inqu ency would rise , along with financial insecurity and general instability , all of which would exacerbate the inequality tr if ec ta ( income , wealth , and opportunity ) .
the house republican plan would cut the top tax rate back to 30 % or lower , with comparable reductions for those now facing lower tax rates .
but doubts are intensifying over whether it ’ s still up to the job .
but there is a critical twist : to import foreign saving , the us must run a massive international balance-of-payments deficit .
yes , like the rest of us , the chinese are tough competitors , and they don ’ t always play by the rules .
on march 15 , 1999 , ru zim ur ad ov and be k jan ov were arrested while working for er k , an uzbe k- language opposition newspaper based in k iev , ukraine .
previous studies have estimated that every dollar invested in vaccines saves $ 16 in terms of health-care costs , lost wages , and lost productivity due to illness , or $ 44 if the broader benefits of people living longer , healthier lives are taken into account .
vaccines have already eradicated small po x , and dramatically reduced child deaths and disease associated with measles , di ph ther ia , and te tan us .
but what if doctors in pakistan could prevent typho id in the first place ?
the t d ap vaccine , which protects adults from di ph ther ia , te tan us , and per tus s is , could reduce this burden considerably .
at the time , the working class depend ably supported parties of the left .
it also would have been irresponsible for varoufakis not to work behind closed doors on a plan b . after all , greece ’ s eurozone destiny largely was – and remains – in the hands of others ( particularly germany , the ecb , and the imf ) .
however , the skills that are now required outside academia are changing so rapidly that universities may struggle to marry the generic cognitive skills taught in the classroom – such as critical thinking , analytical reasoning , problem solving , and writing – with the professional expertise that is increasingly acquired in the workplace .
by last month , the minimum wage had fallen to just 2, 7 40 calories a day .
the discovery of the mechanisms by which large economic fluctuations occur had led to an understanding of how to use fiscal and monetary policies , to tame , if not to prevent , crises such as the great depression , when the us economy shrank by 2 8. 9 % between 19 28 and 1933 .
one might think there would be a revolution , but so far maduro has been able to keep the military on the regime ’ s side in part by granting it license to run a massive drug- trafficking operation that exports cocaine around the world , particularly to europe and the middle east .
at first , the same could be said for maduro , who , at least for a while , grudg ingly recognized the opposition ’ s legislative majority after the 2015 elections .
under the current paradigm , as argued by harvard ’ s joseph ny e , this would imply the unilateral destruction of america ’ s most important source of “ smart ” power .
the two other candidates who participated did not recognize the result , given the many violations that took place .
the government hasn ’ t reported official unemployment rates in over a year .
but the premise of that question is both wrong and dangerous .
then and now , vietnam was the loc us of a struggle between the vision of a mon ol ith ic asia and that of an asia that is open internally and to the world .
instead , wars are between states and non-state actors – between , say , nigeria and boko haram , or between india and its na x al ite insurgents .
nowhere is this insight more relevant than in africa , where large-scale investment in education has enabled significant gains in literacy , school attendance , and university enrollment in recent years .
the middle class will expand , but there is no assurance that it will become “ liberal ” in the western sense .
of course , russia ’ s rulers have usually preferred myth to reality .
a few russians have indeed been arrested and ex trad ited to the us : the arms deal er viktor bout , for example , who is charged with providing aid to terrorists , or the h acker vladimir dr ink man , who is accused of stealing millions of credit card numbers .
some people now warn of a “ leban onization ” of syria – partition of the country into rival fi ef doms and quasi- independent regions .
and the eu , as a highly sophisticated paper tiger , would be no more attractive .
the main relevance of economics is that the 2008 financial crisis created conditions for a political backlash by older , more conservative voters , who have been losing the cultural battles over race , gender , and social identity .
summits are a circ us with many rings and ac ron y ms .
the eu was at its apo ge e at the time , lifted by the new euro and the ambitious “ big bang ” east ward enlargement of 2004 ; so the chances of securing change today , when the eu is at its nad ir of popularity , would at first sight seem even more unlikely .
these same features are also seen in some babies who have suffered trauma , such as falls or mo tor- vehicle accidents .
as the north approaches this point , the us will have to strengthen its missile defenses in the western pacific – areas close to china – in order to deter the north korean threat .
the 43 % increase in opium production in just the last year both reflects and reinforces the growing strength of these groups , which use drug- trafficking revenues to finance their operations .
this time , obama ’ s democrats will be on a level playing field , because both parties will be held equally responsible for a failure to reach a deal .
smaller households in rich countries waste more per person , because it is harder to put everything to use , while richer households add waste when they can afford to buy extra “ just to be on the safe side . ”
ethiopia is also dealing with its worst drought in decades , which has already contributed to the failure of many crops , creating food shortages that now affect around a tenth of the population .
it is time to turn off the tap on subsidized water and find a real cure for persistent water shortages .
the multipl icity of interlocutors inevitably creates a multipl icity of water systems with vastly unequal levels of efficiency .
and much more action is needed to address the largest and most urgent structural weakness of all – climate change .
european leaders , even when they are unhappy over us positions , therefore need to combine forceful support for the transatlantic community of interests with dis crete , if firm lobbying in washington not to strain it to the breaking point .
that was not supposed to happen .
a second factor should also make owners want to stay close to the firm if labor is politically strong .
to strip him of his post neg ates a basic pillar of democracy and sets a dangerous precedent .
moreover , times have changed .
this is a new opportunity .
each step toward greater cooperation and unity on the continent is , on its own , an important one .
the us establishment is using the sca rec row of russian interference to regain its lost political control , particularly in the realm of social media , where a dis cont ented population and ma ver ick politicians have finally found a voice .
the eu flag has dr aped the cas kets of ukrainians killed in that fight .
after the atlantic charter came the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the global trade system , the universal declaration of human rights , and much more .
the uk is poised to take similar action , “ allowing ” local government pension funds to invest in infrastructure projects .
and , in fact , it is based on a false dic ho tom y between autocracy and instability .
the inconvenient truth about saudi arabia
the progress report that they deliver to the security council in six months should establish what that mechanism will be , as well as a timetable for negotiations ; it should not just be a record of explor atory efforts .
the chinese authorities refused liu ’ s request , made just weeks before his death , to seek treatment abroad for his aggressive cancer , and his wife remains under house arrest .
the us and iran could go to war not over nuclear issues but because of reckless behavior by the revolutionary guards ( as occurred recently in the strait of hor mu z ) , with iranian president mahmoud ahmed inejad possibly seeking to provoke a crisis in order to distract domestic attention from his economic failures .
another contained a tat tered clo th that appeared to have once been part of a north korean flag .
like today ’ s wars , the thirty years war is often assumed to have been an essentially religious conflict , but between catholics and protestants .
europe ’ s leaders know this .
spending cuts and tax increases that in the long run restore fiscal sanity and balance are good .
the commission is now proposing that eu companies operating in more than one member state be taxed on a common definition of earned income – the common consolidated base taxation ( cc bt ) .
fully 78 % agreed with the statement that it would be better if more people with a strong commitment to national interests rather than with strong religious views held public office .
i also pointed out that many muslim femin ists defend their dress in terms of nationalism , anti- imperialism , or as a matter of faith .
more generous support for countries in trouble is essential , because the euro must be preserved ( albeit not necessarily on the base of a larger eurozone ) .
they should be . but they should also be supplemented by other devices .
a big infrastructure bill turns out to be small .
another finding casts doubt on whether austerity actually was imposed on greece .
moreover , key institutions , such as the comp trol ler and aud itor general and the judiciary , staff ed by an increasingly angry middle class , also launched investigations .
and , however much they try to position the country as a po ster - child , neither side is able to convince the other .
consider , for example , the high rate of non- employment among men aged 25 to 54 , a group too old to be in school and too young to retire .
undesirable systems , such as dictatorships and sal ine lands cap es , can be very resilient .
in reality , the west is vague enough to include a vast array of areas without describing their unifying characteristics .
the outcome of premature fiscal consolidation is all but fore told : growth will slow , tax revenues will diminish , and the reduction in deficits will be disappointing .
with an assertive china , ongoing regime change in myanmar , a troubled bangladesh , a constitutionally stym ied nepal , and continuing ethnic tensions in sri lanka , india ’ s eastern challenges are many and mighty .
the low inflation objective need not involve the form alities of an inflation-targeting regime , such as that practiced by the european central bank and the bank of england , and is similar in approach to that recommended for the united states by us federal reserve chairman ben bernanke .
but if people believe that the mone yed are primarily those who are well connected or c roo ked , their tolerance for monetary transactions falls .
in 1994 , iran exported $ 37 billion in goods ; by 2007 , the figure had nearly doubled , to $ 70 billion .
but sharon is prepared to go even further in taking political risks to push through the withdrawal .
at the same time , europe is again blocking progress in the doha round of world trade talks , with the farmers ’ lobby fighting to preserve its subsidies .
but the big question remains whether the us and its european allies still have the strength , per sever ance and far- sigh tedness for such an undertaking .
the fact is that citizens in every eu member country are increasingly aware that national policies are determined by decision making at the european level , over which they have little influence .
but pushing the “ re- set bu tton ” on us- russia relations may be harder than obama and his team imagined .
the eurozone has finally recognized this .
now that these countries are at the center of the storm , perhaps they will now be serious .
unlike communism , it offers a future that derives its legitimacy from tradition and building upon what the past has to offer – including the socialist tradition – rather than destroying it .
many in korea viewed the beef decision as having been has tily taken , and without appropriate consultation of all relevant parties .
although some of bush ’ s defenders try to credit him with the “ arab spring ” revolutions , the primary arab participants reject such arguments .
by the time i left the commission , i was sitting on a pile of 1, 500 such in fring ement proceedings .
first , each mo du le in the value chain benefits from connecting to other mod ules in the world .
if investors f lock to “ safe ” us financial assets , these capital flows must keep the dollar significantly stronger that it would be otherwise , which is an unambiguous cost , especially at a time of idle resources and un utili zed capacity .
but what about the future ?
america , as the most powerful and ethical country in the world , has a unique responsibility to perform . ”
for the unites states , the european union , japan , and other members of the “ old west , ” the good news is that most of the emerging powers that are positioning themselves for a more active global role are also democracies .
europeans need to recognize that strength lies in unity , and that europe ’ s integration can not be guaranteed without a common constitutional framework that promotes a common identity .
one man , who was sav ag ely stom ped by a member of the armed forces in tahrir square in 2011 , now claims that the egyptian people should “ stand together ” with the military , and that all muslim brotherhood leaders should be arrested .
t uc ker is the founder and president of geo hazards international , a nonprofit organization whose mission is to reduce death and suffering due to earthquakes in the world ’ s most vulnerable communities .
public policy that discrimin ates against and discourages vital innovations in food production is not policy that has the public ’ s interest at heart .
but the ti t-for- tat retaliation that has followed the raid reflects deeper sources of mistrust and mutual suspicion .
now , however , with the information revolution and democratization demanding more particip atory leadership , the “ femin ine style ” is becoming a path to more effective leadership .
each country asks itself , “ how do i do the least and get the other countries to do the most ? , ” when they should be asking instead , “ how do we cooperate to achieve our shared goals at minimum cost and maximum benefit ? ”
where did market volatility go ?
because of europe ’ s short- sigh tedness , turkey has in effect abandoned its ambitions for eu membership and opted for the neo- ottoman project of becoming a middle eastern power – a policy shift that reflects both interests and ideology .
the vote shocked `` old europe '' and the arab world as much as the bush administration .
the perpetr ator is also likely to engage in ever- escalating ration alizations , often arguing that the offenses serve a greater good .
in the final scenario , what emerges is a more decentralized europe , with less top-down agreement in areas beyond trade and a smaller , more homogeneous eurozone composed of the eu ’ s core economies .
in that case , kim iii may grasp at provocation in one form or another , as his father did with inter mitt ent attacks on south korea in recent years .
it appears unlikely that a single party will emerge from the election with enough parliamentary seats to govern on its own .
of course , the rise of asia ’ s middle class is not the only change we should expect .
by raising living standards , we would also be empowering both civil society and impoverished governments to defend the rule of law .
in short , blair ’ s government exu des an a ura of s lea ze and cronyism .
the result was that every sort of value – including financial values – came to be seen as arbitrary and fundamentally absurd .
that is why its adoption is often associated with an increase in value-added tax rates ( as has occurred throughout eastern europe ) .
and there are also those who fear that a political heav y weight in the job might ecli pse the eu commission ’ s president , former portuguese prime minister josé manuel barroso , who has just been confirmed for a second five-year term , and devalue the role of the foreign policy chief whose authority lisbon is due to beef up .
but he had made it equally clear that he did not intend to expropri ate the property of energy firms – he wanted foreign investors to stay . ( nationalization does not , of course , necessarily mean expropriation without appropriate compensation . )
by contrast , birds that are re ared by traditional methods are likely to have greater resistance to disease than the stressed , genetically similar birds kept in intensive confin ement systems .
you can practically see the blood of us officials boil when they discuss it .
so , for at least the next 50 to 75 years , and perhaps until humans start mining on mars sometime in the coming centuries , prices for many natural resources are headed up .
one can also argue for p sr on the grounds that asking for c sr becomes a way of “ passing the buck ” – ev ading personal responsibility for doing good .
georgia should be neither pro- russian nor pro- american .
ironically , even america ’ s long-term interests would be best served by a commitment – not just in words , but also in deeds – to a merit -based system and good governance .
already there is a sense that the imf is reluctant to tell europe more forcefully how to handle its problem with greece because the managing director must be careful to avoid meddling in europe ’ s internal politics .
indeed , the obama administration ’ s russia policy is being nurtured with advice from people who have no official position in the administration but close business ties to russia and the kremlin : henry kissinger , james a. baker , thomas gra ham , and di mit ri sim es .
the ongoing fight in the muslim world between sunnis and shi ’ a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeen th-century europe .
all of the participants agreed that in europe the state traditionally filled the role played by private phil ant ro py in the us and by the family in asia .
perhaps , then , asia is the answer .
standard inter national- relations thinking does not even enter tain the question , and those conventional ways of seeing the world have blin ded us to looking at this crucial question .
by repudi ating bush 's policies at the polls , america will have a chance to regain the respect and support of the world .
the first phase , roughly from january 2011 until march 2012 , was largely an internal affair .
it deeply polarized a society yearning for a new inclusiveness .
this keeps the top dog in check .
there has long been a life cycle for firms : young firms innovate , are cash- hungry , and have to scramble for financing .
what accounts for the apparent lack of effective policy action across a broad range of countries and regions ?
many studies suggest that it is becoming more difficult than ever to anchor expectations about long-term growth trends .
these advantages include the right to move freely across borders , the free movement of goods and services , legal certainty for cross-border economic activities , europe-wide transportation infrastructure , and , not least , common security arrangements .
in his interviews with managers , he was told that it is best ( at least from a manager ’ s point of view ) if the pain of reduced employment is concentrated on a few people , whose gr umbling is not heard by the remaining employees .
the same parano i a- fueled attraction to bogus science often motiv ates author itar ians to endorse conspiracy theories .
trump also began to see bannon as a “ le aker . ”
the explanation of why the obvious lessons of the crisis are being not drawn lies in the curious character of financial activity .
citizens know that running a country , especially in a time like this , is tough .
no wonder blockchain is ranked close to the peak of the hype cycle of technologies with inflated expectations .
to be sure , prisons demonstrate that short , well- guarded walls can be extremely effective at preventing movement .
as a result , developers , architects , politicians , tyco ons , and international sporting officials are now in charge of the beautiful game .
a crucial dimension of globalization has been trade liberalization .
so in a sense , the chinese bubble – as much an intellectual and political bubble as an economic one – has burst .
they point to steel , coal , and construction statistics , which really are collapsing in several chinese regions , and to exports , which are growing much less than in the past .
renminbi appreciation that swit ches chinese spending toward foreign goods , including us exports , will work against this tendency .
what it did was help to consolidate political power .
by 2010 , close to 100 o zone- deple ting substances , including cf cs , will have been phas ed- out globally .
the british liberal democrats , for example , have tried for decades to become a strong centrist third party , without success .
having had access to knowledge , they feel empowered enough to criticize the cogn os centi  and develop views of their own .
several responses to that qu ery exist .
that said , over the 17 -year period from 1993 to 2010 , the number of girls enrolled in primary education increased from 3.7 million to 8.3 million .
but tools alone can not solve or build anything .
some adaptation will occur naturally , as rising energy and other commodity prices generate incentives to econom ize or seek alternatives .
sarkozy regards an eu economic government as a way to preserve his leadership in the eu beyond france ’ s council presidency , which is now ending .
· “ both the first two revolutions required about 100 years for their full effects to per col ate through the economy . ”
it would impose only those limits that are consistent with democratic delegation , possibly along with a limited number of procedural norms ( such as transparency , accountability , represent ati veness , use of scientific evidence , etc . ) that enhance democratic deliberation at home .
even from an efficiency point of view , it made sense to have the federal government service public debt .
but , in pursuing such harmonization , europeans should recognize that their asia strategy – which has so far focused on commerce and , to a lesser degree , on the rule of law and human rights – will have to take on a security dimension .
the effects of these purchases attracted considerable attention .
but if the government ren eg es on its commitment , the develop er will default , leaving the central bank with a claim on the government .
these models , and the institutions using them , rely on a built-in theory of the economy , which enables them to “ assume ” certain relationships .
if nicolas sarkozy , whom he defeated , was widely regarded as “ too ” presidential , hollande has given the impression of not being presidential “ enough . ”
two striking statements on economic policy by france ’ s leaders in the first weeks of this year have highlighted the force of this logic .
urban crime , once described as the wages of unfettered individu alism , now resembles what is found in the united states , the french model ’ s b ê te no ire .
latin america suffered a lost decade .
even the resounding “ no ” delivered by greek voters could not strengthen the government ’ s negotiating position , for a simple reason : grexit is no longer considered a threat to the euro ’ s stability .
meanwhile , the people ’ s bank of china , which hi ked benchmark one- year lending rates five times in the 12 months ending this october , to 6.5 % , now has plenty of scope for monetary easing should economic conditions deteriorate .
paradoxically , the apparently dis continuous and contradictory nature of the “ era of reform and opening ” may actually help explain how china ’ s boom came about .
to achieve this shared identity , all citizens have to speak the one official language and be educated according to a common curriculum .
the us foreign-policy establishment blames russian president vladimir putin for defending assad , while russia blames the us for trying to overthrow him .
viewed from this perspective , the apparent beauty of the laws of physics – our attraction to their sym metry and exuberance – is not surprising .
just as she resumed campaigning , there were bombings in new york and new jer sey , and two more police sho ot ings of un armed african americans , which spurred demonstrations in north carolina , a swing state .
in france , smaller parties can gain parliamentary seats only if they manage to negotiate a pre- election agreement with one of the major parties to secure for them some constituencies .
the country seems to be caught in a permanent , uneasy tu g- of- war between the past and the future , between change and the actors who seek to place obstacles in its path .
because the new keynesian models did not offer a sufficient basis for maintaining keynesian policies once the economic emergency had been overcome , they were quickly abandoned .
the nineteenth-century philosopher john stuart mill was of the “ anyone can do it ” school .
military intervention , with all of its problems , has been avoided for now ; but assad knows that the us will have no option but to attack – with or without explicit security council and congressional resolutions – should he perpetr ate another such horror .
iran maintains that the security council is the only body legally authorized to verify allegations concerning the use of such deadly weapons and to decide on the appropriate response .
those in the cros sha irs have overseen intelligence collection and analysis that informed the intelligence community ’ s conclusion that russia interfer ed in the 2016 election , including possible collusion with trump ’ s presidential campaign .
consider , first , that the previous qe rounds came at times of much lower equity valuations and earnings .
likewise , obama ’ s health-care reform , the affordable care act , has hampered employment growth , as businesses reduce their hiring and cut workers ’ hours to shelter themselves from increased labor costs ( estimates of the rise vary ) .
then there were those who preferred not to fight any enemy at all , particularly the us , whose long-term war- making power , the government knew , far surpassed japan ’ s own .
but the system many republicans t out – a scheme based fully on “ personal responsibility ” – is not feasible .
the “ yes ” campaign hoped to win supporters with a utopian vision of an independent scotland that included european union and nato membership ; a currency union with england , but no fiscal union ; improved public services and social benefits ; and lower taxes .
if china fails to rebalance , weak external demand from a crisis- battered developed world will continue to hob ble its export machine , forcing it to up the ante on a credit - and investment-led growth model – in effect , doubling down on resource- intensive and environmentally damaging growth .
regulations in a range of countries , from japan to italy , create sectors that are shel tered from competition , with detrim ental effects on productivity .
the dispute- settlement provisions might have interfer ed un reasonably with member countries ’ anti- smoking campaigns , for example .
moreover , the ecb has the authority to set the eurozone- wide inflation target , and could set it higher for two or three years , without any treaty violation .
with the reserves ’ long-term effects on china ’ s internal economic dynamics finally taking hold , selling off foreign-exchange reserves is now in china ’ s interest .
excessive currency volatility is not in america ’ s interest , not least because large exchange-rate depreci ations in emerging markets would amplify the effects of globalization on us jobs , wages , and inflation , particularly as weaker foreign currencies make outsourcing a more economically viable solution .
the great virtue of capitalism is that it adap ts to ru inous conditions and even finds ways of turning them to advantage .
some banks may even prefer these flows to direct deposits .
but the consensus view at the most recent meeting of the fdic ’ s systemic resolution advisory committee ( of which i am a member ) was that this claim should not be taken seriously .
but , given the profound uncertainty of a world in flu x , as well as the dangers of miscalculation as the soviet empire collapsed , prudent management trum ped grand visions .
prisons and slums also serve as breeding grounds for tb , and young women on the periphery of society can inf ect their children .
the issue is complicated further by turkey ’ s refusal to negotiate directly with the kurdish regional government in northern iraq .
ukraine ’ s private creditors must now do their part , recognize the country ’ s economic and political situation , and accept a haircut on their bonds .
in a globalized world managed by bankers and technocrats , many people feel that they have no say in public affairs ; they feel abandoned .
if mainstream leaders want to change voters ’ minds , they should look carefully at what leadership really means .
the issue thus is not just about how many mou ths there are to feed , but also how much excess body fat there is on the planet .
in a mal ari a- inf ested country , mosquito eradication programs can boost production and even increase effective land usage , as ac res that were almost un inhab itable become liv able .
last year , the un passed an historic resolution to tackle illicit wildlife trafficking , recognizing the effectiveness of the cites legal framework .
from this perspective , what berlusconi advocates for italy , and the consequences of his agenda for the eurozone , is not good news .
even if every country has a cap-and-trade system and all aim at the same relative reduction in national co2 emissions , the resulting permit prices will differ because of national differences in initial co2 levels and in domestic production characteristics .
today , the topic of political reform is taboo .
but that does not necessarily detr act from his genius .
talk of countries exiting , starting with greece ( the “ grexit ” ) , is now rampant .
political wisdom would demand that the two sides pool their considerable resources and march together whenever possible .
in 2008 , it is likely that lat inos will make up 9 % to 10 % of the electorate , the highest share ever .
first , both cyber- security and financial stability are extremely complex topics with which government regulators can hardly keep up .
more importantly , hamas can demonstrate that its leaders have been on the front lines during this war , sharing palestinian suffering ; many have been killed , along with their families .
most important , economic outcomes are becoming increasingly aligned with the authorities ’ goals .
in short , the new - style leadership , a form of managed charisma , was collectively designed to serve national needs .
those divisions are now history , and american reservations about a european security pillar can not trump america ’ s pressing needs for allied support .
democracies are necessarily soft- hear ted , whereas markets and nature are not ; government inevitably expands to fill the gap .
only a strong israeli government can make the painful decisions necessary for negotiations with the palestinians to succeed .
russians , on the other hand , emphasize their “ hard power , ” including military force , because they know that they live in a dangerous world and have no one to hide behind .
will technology kill convergence ?
in any case , the eu 's practice of `` cap ping '' its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial costs entailed by turkey 's accession .
perhaps gold , a store of value imper vious to physical distortion , could make a comeback .
in his recent speech in jackson hole , wy oming , us federal reserve chairman ben bernanke forcefully complained that political paralysis has possibly become the principal impediment to recovery .
ultimately , it seeks to address what president bush considers the root causes of terrorism , particularly the absence of open political systems and economic opportunity .
nokia in finland , for example , imports 12 % of its cell - phone components from japan , and thus could be indirectly affected by the disaster .
he went on to boast the return of “ the most b iting sanctions ever imposed , ” as if sounding the death kn ell of the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , as the deal is officially known .
specifically , china would have to use its market power to promote pricing in renminbi for relevant manufactured exports and raw - material imports , and encourage renminbi denomination of foreign financial assets that china purchases ( which the country ’ s status as a net creditor should facilitate ) .
the first two were forced upon the us , but the third was the result of a will ful , deliberate decision by former president george w. bush , taken on ideological grounds and , most likely , for personal reasons as well .
after years of priv ation ( and in many countries the physical destruction of war ) , people just wanted to live normally – to rebuild , own a home , a car , and other consumer goods .
without these , military victory and occupation quickly turn to ashes .
legislation that em powers citizens with freedom of expression , free and independent elections , and freedom of association is crucial , and it must be made clear to the public that no one is above the law . anything less will undermine the transition .
but for such a system to be successful , the extreme poverty in the south of the country must first be our top priority .
instead , the compromise solution will be no solution : neither yes nor no .
and it still could be a qualified american .
one sport in which women compete equally with men is equ e stri anism – not just rac ing , but also dres s age , show j umping , and three- day ev enting .
fe z – though women across the middle east participated actively in the arab spring protests that began in late 2010 , they remain second- class citizens , even where popular uprisings managed to topple autocratic regimes .
beyond the social attitudes that undermine women ’ s access to digital technologies , women and girls often disproportionately lack the requ isite skills to seize the opportunities of the digital age .
and reducing gender inequalities also reduces income inequality , allowing for more sustainable growth .
despite tymoshenko ’ s leading role in ukraine , it would be surprising to see russian president vladimir putin replaced by a woman , and , while there is a female vice- president in china , there is no sign of a woman becoming japanese prime minister soon .
a new york times analysis of exit polls found that voters with annual incomes below $ 50,000 backed clinton by about a ten- point margin , while voters with incomes above that level split evenly between the two candidates .
worker protests in china : plentiful but preemp ted
but here , too , increasing workers ’ legal and statutory rights , while allowing most unions to fade away , seems like the right approach .
indeed , my own conversations with senior businesspeople around the world confirm that progress clearly is being made .
since 2005 , the number of people on antiretroviral therapies worldwide has grown by a factor of ten , to 21 million .
the world bank should develop the expertise to help donors and recipient governments make these programs work .
for several decades , the western -led international order func tioned well , helping to deliver prosperity and relative financial stability .
ensuring that the right type of aid reaches those most in need in a timely and effective manner requires development policymakers to embrace the type of multi dimensional poverty data that aid organizations like fund ac ión par agu aya have learned to gather .
yet more people today still die from indoor air pollution than from outdoor pollution .
many european union member states still need to reduce their government debt , and the eurozone needs to resolve its “ zombie bank ” crisis .
while that would be far short of the record 0.1 % global contraction in 2009 , it wouldn ’ t be much different than two earlier deep world recessions , in 1975 ( 1 % growth ) and 1982 ( 0.7 % ) .
based on three pillars – early detection , integrated prevention tactics , and coordination between countries and partners – the roadmap provides a concrete path for ending cholera as a public health threat .
our fix ation with the future of global structures and systems is evident everywhere – in the news and at conferences , on best seller lists , even in popular television shows .
fragmentation of the international institutions seemed imminent – that is , until european countries decided to join the aiib .
the most important determinant of income inequality today is wealth inequality , with the increasing concentration of asset ownership in recent years principally responsible for greater income inequality in most countries .
most obviously , the us federal reserve ’ s target for the federal funds rate is still only 1.25 % - 1.5 % .
a consensu s- based approach can work only if it entails an obligation by all members to work toward shared interests , with members objec ting formally only to decisions running counter to some fundamental interest .
just as the x - men in that film join forces with their younger selves to save mankind ’ s future , today ’ s kremlin is har king back to russia ’ s soviet past in what it sees as a contemporary fight for the country ’ s survival .
the north korea issue is more complicated .
for example , china is exploring how artificial intelligence ( ai ) and big data can be used to monitor everything from social media to credit- card spending , and it plans to as sign all citizens a social- reliability rating to we ed out potential troubl em akers .
given its emphasis on iron laws of political and economic development , a dial ec tic al- materi alist worldview means that there is nothing random about world events .
iran , turkey , and seven arab countries are among the founding members of the beij ing -based asian infrastructure investment bank , a key institution for financing related infrastructure projects .
there is now widespread concern that the us and china may be headed for a new cold war .
china ’ s smes are certainly capable of doing so .
but her words did little so o thing .
as expected , its final document un ve ils a plan for comprehensive reforms that will reshape china ’ s economy and society in the next decade .
many remain convinced that china ’ s government – which wi elds with the world ’ s largest foreign-exchange reserves and virtually unchecked authority – would be able to prevent a major financial crisis .
as shadow banking has become the primary source of finance for smes – which tend to be higher- risk borrowers – the financial risks in china ’ s economy have grown exponentially .
more generally , the report provides a window into the experiences of yemeni civilians directly affected by us drone strikes .
when the n asser ite party attempted to overthrow saleh less than 100 days into his presidency , al- ah mar defended him and qu ashed the coup .
or it may simply vac ill ate until it is too late to take real action .
while much of the west is bound together by institutions like the organization for security cooperation in europe and nato , east asia ’ s main body , the asean regional forum , is too weak to play an analogous role , leaving the region beset with unregulated rivalries .
instead , the generational divide shows up in electoral participation .
in short , we didn ’ t do nearly enough to reinvigorate the engines of sustainable inclusive growth , thereby also weakening potential output and threatening future economic performance .
november 22 , 1963 , was also the day satellite broadcasting from the united states to japan began , and many japanese got up early to watch a speech by j f k in d all as that began at 5 : 30 a . m .
just as , a decade ago , the west objected to the efforts of turkey ’ s entrenched secular elite to ro b recep tayyip erdoğan ’ s mil dly islamist akp party of its democratic victory , it needs to speak clearly today in defense of thai democracy .
a permanent national security secretariat , headed by a person with abundant diplomatic experience , will be established in the prime minister ’ s office , with 60 security specialists from various fields laying the policy groundwork for medium- and long-term national security strategy .
in a strange historical twist , given the crim ean annexation , after the japanese citizens native to the northern territories were killed or expelled , many ukrainians were brought to the islands during the soviet years , and still live there .
thailand , one of asia ’ s most prosperous countries , seems determined to render itself a basket case .
but if america can evade its guarantee of ukraine ’ s territorial integrity , why should japan ’ s leaders believe that it will do otherwise in the case of a far- fl ung cluster of un inhabited islands that are scarcely more than roc ks inhabited by she ep ?
witness chinese president xi jinping ’ s recent trip to south korea , german chancellor angela merkel ’ s unwillingness to impose effective sanctions on russia for its intervention in ukraine , and the business- only focus of her just- concluded visit to china .
after all , they contend , developing countries that have experienced a large-scale credit boom have all ended up facing a credit crisis and a hard economic landing .
in other words , the courts should be able to make decisions independently of the local governments that finance them .
of course , rebalancing china ’ s economy will take time , and it will entail some risks and sacrifices .
five of the ten t all est sk ys cr apers under construction worldwide are in china .
it claims that its opposition to a european defense structure stems from its belief that nato – and thus the united states – is critical to european defense .
but despite this progress , the latest report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) contains a chilling prediction : on current trends , the world is heading toward 3 °c of global warming by 2100 , to a level not reached for more than a million years .
given what we know about human nature , the second development seems likely to play a significant role .
to avoid infection , women have been advised to use mosquito rep ell ent ; remove standing water around their homes ; wear long sle ev es ; and , if possible , use con doms or avoid sex .
hab eas cor p us , latin for “ you have the body , ” is an old english common law principle incorporated into the us constitution to ensure freedom from un law ful detention by the state .
( some of us have been proposing this for almost two decades . )
the end of the east - west ideological divide and the end of absolute faith in markets are historical turning points .
meanwhile , policymakers were l ul led into complacency by the widespread acceptance of economic theories such as the “ effici ent- market hypothesis , ” which assumes that investors act rationally and use all available information when making their decisions .
the us presidential election season is starting , and other issues in the new year could easily take over the eu agenda .
with the eurozone banks also deeply implicated in the subprime mortgage mess and desperately short of us dollars , america and much of europe began a remor seless slide into recession .
9/11 and the new authoritarianism
but progress is not to be confused with victory .
this means two things . first , funds from different sources of finance are inter chan geable to a certain degree : deficiency of funds for one component of total debt can be supplemented by surplus funds originally aimed at financing other components .
this incremental approach has worked well in the past ; indeed , today ’ s european union resulted from it .
japanese companies have formidable r & d operations , but most will need to re config ure them to obtain better returns and impact .
and putin has expressed concerns that the 1960 japan- us security treaty would extend to the disputed islands if they were returned , thus allowing the us to establish a military presence there .
twenty years ago , prime minister tom i ichi mur ay ama , the head of the socialist party , acknowledged that “ japan , through its colonial rule and aggression , caused tremendous damage and suffering to the people of many countries , ” particularly in asia .
the bureaucracies must be byp assed to get help to where it is needed : in the soil til led by the world ’ s poorest farm families .
it ’ s “ serious , ” the sm it ten president admitted .
re forestation and the repair of natural ecosystems should also be part of a land use policy .
second , drug development is geared toward maximizing profit , not social benefit , which ske ws efforts directed at the creation of medicines that are essential to human welfare .
development policy used to be dominated by career activists we dded to soci al ist- era thinking .
it will take another generation , perhaps , before robots have completely taken over manufacturing , kit chen work , and construction ; and the developing world looks to be 50 years behind . but keynes would have been spot on had he targeted his essay at his readers ' great- great- great- great grandchildren .
universities should be bas tions of freedom in any society .
after all , knowledge is acquired in different ways , and empirical posi tiv ism is only one method in a larger ep ist em ological inventory .
for many leaders , the common perception is that provision of surgical care is not sustainable or cost-effective .
washington , dc – all across the united states , students are settling into college – and coming to grips with “ ec on 101 . ”
financial markets can be fragile , and they provide little capacity for sharing risk related to labor income , which constitutes the largest part of income in any advanced economy .
and in all but two african countries , girls remain less likely than boys to complete a primary education .
the us president-elect wants to restore growth via deficit spending in a country with a chronic shortfall of saving .
for example , rising food prices tend to hurt the poor , especially the urban poor , who spend a large share of their income on food ; unlike agricultural workers , they receive none of the benefits of higher food prices .
putin ’ s aim was to subject all power to the control of russia ’ s security forces .
israeli jews are bound to stay in the west bank and east jerusalem , and israeli arabs are bound to stay in israel proper .
to an economist , the problem is obvious : polluters are not paying the full costs of the damage they cause .
a crisis in full flight
yet even this growth was not enough , given previous governments ’ generous promises of health care and pensions – promises made even less tenable by rising life expectancy and falling birth rates .
a czech moment
even economists who find no evidence that capital-account liberalization boosts growth often feel obliged to stress that “ further analysis ” might at last reveal the benefits that free-market theory suggests must exist .
indeed , the modern economy may resemble that of the eighteenth century , when the land owned by the duke of west min ster and the ear l of cad og an was still just fields to the west of london , more than the middle-class societies in which most developed countries ’ citizens ’ grew up .
the government owns the central bank , so the debt is to itself , and the interest expense comes back to the government as the central bank ’ s profit .
these factors will drive construction booms and bu sts even if obvious market distortions are removed and market discipline is tightened .
but the starting point for debate must be realism about the nature and severity of the problems facing the eurozone .
under the well-known “ race to the bottom ” hypothesis , countries that are open to international trade are thought to adopt weaker environmental regulations than less open countries do .
a time of tectonic shifts has begun .
although these criticisms don ’ t seem to bother the electorate very much , park ’ s path to victory may yet prove narrower than her supporters expect .
a violent conflict in the past may survive as a war of memories in the present , as can be observed in the current dispute between china and south korea on one side , and japan on the other .
but that optimistic assessment over estimates the renminbi ’ s prospects and illustrates the danger of linear extrapol ation of the past into the future .
marginalization generates frustration , which is subsequently fed by growing islam ophobia and the rise of ra u cou s right-wing movements throughout the continent .
some low-carbon policies have clearly been expensive , while other , apparently cost-effective options , have not been pursued at all .
as the fil m maker michael mo ore explained prior to the election , american working-class voters were desperate to hear someone promise to take on big business .
building recognition of women ’ s rights into the mdgs did not corrupt african cultures by imposing “ western ” values ; in fact , it strengthened many african countries , which now lead the world in the representation of women in government .
for countries that are suffering from weak competitiveness and , as a consequence , running trade deficits , this typically means more revenues , especially in the short run .
so rote – and so violent – has that war become that many people in latin america now wonder which side is suffering the more path ological addiction .
and the emerging and developing economies should support domestic sources of growth .
in the 1990s and 2000s , for example , the so-called washington consensus dominated policymaking in much of the world , with everyone from the united states to a multitude of emerging economies pursuing trade liberalization , privatization , greater use of price mechanisms , financial-sector deregulation , and fiscal and monetary reforms with a heavy supply-side emphasis .
first observed by john maynard keynes during the great depression of the 1930s , the liquidity trap describes a situation in which policy interest rates , having reached the zero bound , are unable to stimulate chronically deficient aggregate demand .
world leaders may have already reserved some days in august 2014 to mark the occasion .
but a restructured commission is not enough to ensure a reset of europe ’ s foreign-policy strategy .
but it isn ’ t just importers who are blocking real devaluation . unions , too , are resisting the necessary wage reductions , and public and private debtors fear the prospect of insolvency if their assets and revenues are assessed at a lower value , while their debts remain unchanged .
when geo- strategic military front lines are non-existent , as in kosovo , afghanistan , and iraq , mass no longer equals victory .
a second necessary step is for the us and russia to follow up on the new start agreement and begin deeper weapons cuts , especially tactical and reserve weapons , which serve no purpose , waste funds , and threaten security .
our dependency on carbon- emitting fuels is more than enormous . it is overwhelming .
the 18- month clock is tic king .
customary law is not rigid in that it is made to fit round the demands of global economy .
when western media sought quo tes from the women , they frequently heard a western-style feminist refrain : “ these laws would make women into a kind of property . ”
allowing opium traffickers to operate with impunity gives them a free hand to raise money to pay for the arms and fighters battling the afghan army and nato forces .
the weather is mediterranean , and all of a sudden , so are the people .
i am an economist – a professor of the dismal science , in which there are no free lun ches , in which benefits are always balanced by costs , and in which stories that sound too good to be true almost inevitably are .
it was 30 years ago that former prime minister take o fu k ud a , the father of today ’ s prime minister , signed a peace and friendship treaty with china .
that year , congress passed the first “ farm bill , ” the agricultural adjustment act , which boosted investment in the rural economy and helped lift farm income by 50 % within two years .
somalia ’ s experience gives me great hope for africa ’ s future .
the best way to reduce long-term climate change is to reduce carbon emissions .
after more than three decades of break neck economic growth , it has transformed itself from one of the poorest countries on earth to the world 's largest economy .
this approach is successful because it is pati ent- centered and lever ages information and communication technology ( ict ) tools that are readily available and commonly used .
that is faster than the 3.5 % rate at which the global economy is currently growing .
there are eight partly overlapping regional trade zones , none of which includes more than half of africa ’ s countries .
that will require establishing effective regulatory structures that facilitate long-term borrowing and repayment , while ensuring that lenders do not exploit borrowers , as has occurred everywhere from rural india to the united states mortgage market .
in south africa , jacob  zuma ’ s resignation allowed cy ril ramaphosa to become president .
which other world region can offer similar market potential for european industries faced with declining demand and or subdued growth in both their domestic and traditional export markets ?
the model championed by the west places a premium on human rights and democracy , while the one advocated by china is more concerned with political stability and economic growth .
these types of initiatives would not require vast sums of money ; rather , the most important factor in launching them is political support and effective program integration .
but they will mean little unless they are translated into concrete and effective action that advances african industrialization , creates jobs , and fosters inclusive and sustainable economic growth and development .
similarly , rwanda ’ s k ig ali special economic zone , which exemp ts firms from taxes for ten years , has attracted a $ 20 million investment from vol k sw ag en for a new vehic le- assembly plant .
this is a particular concern for africa , where , since the se y ch ell es issued its de but euro bond in 2006 , the total value of outstanding eurobonds has grown to nearly $ 35 billion .
with several key african elections coming up , internet shut downs are again on the horizon .
according to the unesco institute for statistics , countries in sub-saharan africa spend , on average , just 0.5 % of gdp on research and development .
companies and speci al- interest groups will always seek to benefit from the absence of regulation .
inadequate investment in locally led initiatives is one of the two ways in which we fail to ensure that those who are most affected by in equity have pathways to address it .
these adjustments are coming at a critical time for africa , where many countries are experiencing a demographic dividend of declining fertility rates and rising productivity .
accelerating africa ’ s energy transition
new vaccines should be enabling us to save more lives .
we are still useful .
more recently , mel es coordinated efforts with kenya to stage limited strikes against the al- shab a ab militia , which has waged an un rel enting war to turn somalia into a fundamentalist islamic the ocracy .
abraham lincoln once said that a house divided can not stand .
the new obama administration is proposing spending plans that would create a record us deficit of more than one trillion dollars – and this coming on top of the outgoing bush administration ’ s record deficit .
they may also have to redistribute income and strengthen social safety nets to protect better those at the bottom of the ladder .
the revival of traditional foods has attracted the attention of large multinational corporations .
at the moment , banks and mobile network operators are working to expand their digital banking services to un ban ked and under- ban ked clients .
the transformative power of africa ’ s youth
political and cultural exclusion intensi fies it .
recent newcomers from russia have their own political party , and old europeans have become a distinct minority .
indeed , its leaders ’ will ful ignorance of the lessons of the past is criminal .
developing infrastructure projects is a long process that requires 3- 7 years from identification , through licensing , financing , and construction , and finally to the first certi fication of carbon emission reductions .
as ir k some as some of america ’ s actions have been , particularly over the past eight years , america remains the world ’ s most critical champion of the progressive values that have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of ab jec t poverty and political repression .
and there is evidence that they got advanced countries to pay more attention to poor nations .
the gaps in these countries ’ labor markets – from software specialists to physicians to home health aides – will be immense .
at the same time , determined and decisive policies must be taken against extremists .
these saving disparities give rise to multilateral trade imbalances that can not be resolved by bilateral efforts .
it was a club that countries sought to join precisely in order to achieve faster economic growth .
however , in the asian countries , including china , the optimism is un broken .
likewise , there could be no clearer symbol of resistance to change than his proposed wall on the us- mexico border .
let our common agenda begin .
the global green new deal , which un ep launched as a concept in october 2008 , responds to the current economic malaise .
with the us and israel unwilling to accept containment of a nuclear iran by deterrence , a military confrontation in 2013 would lead to a massive oil price spike and global recession .
at the ri o + 20 summit this past june , the world ’ s governments agreed to adopt a new set of goals on sustainable development for the period after 2015 , to build upon the millennium development goals ’ success in reducing poverty , hunger , and disease .
an old man with a long be ard watches over us , and most of us retain a pretty lit eral opinion of the stories about his son told in the bi ble ’ s new testament .
a green alternative to austerity ?
but , given the pressures of poverty and the lure of cash , what does it take for people to be able to make a genuinely free and informed choice about selling something as significant as a right to land ?
but enormous challenges remain .
given that existing development banks in the region have largely failed to act as vehicles of coordination and commitment , a new institution – resem bling the european bank for reconstruction and development – would have to be established to oversee a regional aid push and under write the costs of economic transition .
bilateral relations were frozen .
i condemned these attacks as ab omin able and an act of terrorism , since most of the thir teen victims during the past seven years have been non- combatants .
just as we measure what we see , so we tend to see only what we measure .
as such , un aids works to expand the political space for – and investment in – civil society .
the ncd and aids communities can learn from one another .
fortunately , china is willing and able to fill the gap .
after all , obama ’ s victory on the nuclear deal may have been inevitable , but it was far from easy .
india ’ s supreme court even suggested an extra charge on privately owned diesel vehicles in new delhi .
from the 1980 ’ s through the mid- 2000 ’ s , employment has increasingly lagged gdp in economic recoveries .
i was moved : the man who symbol ized gl as n ost and perestroika , who had allowed the peaceful emancip ation of most of eastern and central europe , was speaking .
in bosnia and her ze go v ina , the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) has made important contributions to truth seeking .
a lasting poison
ment ored by mat t andre ws of harvard kennedy school of government , policymakers used an implementation strategy based on a problem- driven iter ative process , which starts by nom inating a problem , identifying its causes , and devising ways to fix it .
a larger obstacle to progress is fear that more attention to geo engineering solutions would s ap motivation to cut emissions .
paris – the newspaper comment aries that i write often have a dark perspective .
they are well known to science but not properly discussed by the industries , investors , and governments whose security depends on environmental stability .
iran will be there .
the ma yor al campaign is now in full swing , with the election on september 8 the first in moscow in ten years , as putin had simply been appointing loy alists as mayors and governors throughout the country .
used carefully and accurately , these data give us unprecedented scope to understand our society , and improve the way we live and work .
the politics of mach ine- learning algorithms
these examples demonstrate the importance of good leadership when communities that uphold different claims to the truth are subject to the same political authority – especially when these communities seek assurance that their survival is not threatened .
in the first half of the 1990 ’ s , many observers of the alleged asian economic miracle emphasized trust and families ’ capacity to cooperate with political authorities in order to realize long-term growth plans .
meanwhile , state governments , seeing revenues fall as a result of lower taxable incomes last year , are cutting back like mad .
despite decades of close interaction , with millions of americans , europeans , and japanese visiting china every year and similar numbers of chinese now visiting the us and other advanced countries , both sides see each other through a glass dar kly .
there might be some money in re packaging , but not the billions that banks made by sl icing and dic ing sub-prime mortgages into packages whose value was much greater than their contents .
to define “ altruism ” so narrowly that the term can be applied only when giving is contrary to a person ’ s overall interest would miss the point that the best situation to bring about is one in which promoting the interests of others harmon izes with promoting one ’ s own .
if private firms , media , and civil-society organizations identify specific problems and call publicly for change , their governments will feel pressure to take the steps needed to produce accurate , un biased data – for example , by enhancing the autonomy of national statistical offices or providing sufficient funds to hire more qualified personnel .
to be sure , we have also seen patients seeking treatment for depression who really did have bipolar disorder .
if this is not done forth with , we will not grant indian visa to any amazon official . we will also resc ind the visas issued earlier . ”
since suffering a stroke last year , b out ef lik a has barely appeared in public , whether to campaign ahead of the vote or to acknowledge his victory after it .
given how much of trump ’ s agenda his fellow policymakers would likely find objec tion able , governing would be very difficult during his administration .
in the process , markets take investors on a wild roll er coast er ride , with the european crisis ( riddled with even more confusion and volatility ) serving to aggravate their qu eas iness .
indeed , as taken with today ’ s revolutionary technologies as we are – i say this star ing at my sle ek new apple watch – i am sympathetic to gordon ’ s argument .
in may 1930 , some 1 ,0 28 of america ’ s leading academic economists wrote a public letter to us president her bert hoover urging him to veto the pending smoot-hawley tariff bill .
now some american neo- conservatives argue that the us should drop its longstanding support for european integration .
recently , the us centers for disease control estimated that a stunning 40 % of all americans are obese ( defined as having a body mass index of 30 or higher ) , a figure that includes 20 . 6 % of adolescents ( 12- 19 years old ) .
if basel becomes a talking shop , without the ability to set firm standards , another key link in the chain will be broken , and it will be harder for the uk to argue that if london ’ s banks meet international standards , they should be granted equal treatment in the eu .
they want clean energy and will fight against the destruction of the earth that they and their own children will inherit .
if trump really wants to make america great again , he should ponder how his inaugural address will sound to a global audience 56 years from now .
the remarkable success in cam den has prompted the foundation to fund similar experiments in boston , c level and , c inc in nati  , western michigan , and hum bol d t county , california .
it is worth noting that in his address to the us congress , modi invoked the word “ partner ” or “ partnership ” no fewer than 15 times .
the myth of sound fundamentals
but trump has made the mid terms about himself to an unprecedented degree .
bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work .
about 14 .5 % of the american population as a whole is poor , but 19 . 9 % of children – some 15 million individuals – live in poverty .
an un hing ed democracy in america
the potential candidates have already sought to stake out their positions on key foreign-policy issues , with early republican fron tr unner je b bush , for example ,
the iraq war , in particular , increased public awareness of the mistakes in bush ’ s first term , but other issues are changing as well .
the cold war ended a generation ago ; the terror attacks of september 11 , 2001 , are nearly a decade in the past .
if russia ’ s economy continues to decline , and if the west succeeds in deterring putin from further use of force , it is still conceivable that some acceptable resolution ( a form of which i recommended publicly by talking about the finland model ) may be contr ived .
britain was never as dominant as the us is today .
this is what george w. bush did successfully in 2001 .
american internationalism will be back at some point .
but , even if the fiscal cliff turns out to be a mild growth bu mp – a mere 0.5 % of gdp – and annual growth at the end of the year is just 1.5 % , as seems likely , the fiscal drag will suffice to slow the economy to stall speed : a growth rate of barely 1 % .
russian president dmitri medvedev has called the 2008 financial crisis a sign that america ’ s global leadership is coming to an end .
the summer before the japanese attack on pearl harbor , 75 years ago this month , churchill and roosevelt met in plac enti a bay , new found land , to set out their ideals for a postwar world .
but , despite modest material support , the us could not sustain a government that could not sustain itself .
dear africa : we apologize for trump ’ s ob scene remarks insul ting your countries in january .
many of his supporters don ’ t seem to care much about reasoned argument – that is for the liberal s no bs .
their objection is to his aggressive , unilater alist methods .
with a federal debt of 14 1 % of gdp , that 5.8 % -of-gdp interest cost implies an average nominal interest rate of just 4 % and , given the cbo ’ s inflation forecast , a real interest rate of about 2 % – similar to historic rates when the debt ratio was less than 40 % of gdp .
nowhere is that more evident than in the fix ation on china – singled out by both president barack obama and his republican challenger , mitt romney , as a major source of pressure bearing down on american workers and their families .
even for those not so lucky , economic risks were usually fairly low : the unemployment rate for married men during the 1960 ’ s averaged 2.7 % , and finding a new job was a relatively simple matter .
the banking sector will still be “ de- risking , ” limiting the flow of credit to small and medium-size companies and undermining hiring and investment in plant and equipment .
markets had factor ed into share prices the belief that the us government would not allow any more banks to collapse .
most of all , the republican platform is devoid of compassion .
another post-election route to deficit reduction would be to lower marginal tax rates and balance that revenue loss with cuts in tax expenditures .
for example , in 1960 , president dwight d. eisenhower ’ s advisers suggested that he should cut taxes in order to pave the way for his vice president , richard nixon , to be elected to the presidency .
instead of seeing real people in crisis , they see caric atures , a terrorist around every corner .
school districts are increasing class sizes as they shed teachers , as well as def err ing maintenance projects and curtailing the school- bus service .
it has proved to be impossible to distinguish , either bi ologically or sympt om atically , between different varieties of these conditions , which thus constitute a continu um – most likely of complexity , rather than severity .
if he wins a second term , he is likely to find it increasingly difficult to win by playing not to lose .
in many of these countries , including the us , the european conqu er ors and their descendants nearly wiped out the indigenous populations , partly through disease , but also through war , starvation , death mar ches , and forced labor .
america ’ s advantages in the g- zero world afford it the chance to invest in the future .
if it falls 60 % against china ’ s currency , the yuan , sometime in the next ten years , us long-term interest rates should be six percentage points higher than chinese rates .
his sentiment seems more apt than ever nowadays , but not because humanity has turned pacif istic .
america faces long-run and short-run problems : dec aying infrastructure , weakening educational systems , and a dysfunctional health-care system that produces sub- standard outcomes at twice the cost of any other industrial country .
true , china can not entirely overlook us pressure and the staunch opposition of its top oil supplier , saudi arabia , to iran ’ s nuclear program .
there are several reasons to anticipate modest improvement in 2013 , although , as usual , there are downside risks .
financial deregulation enriched wall street , but ended up creating a global economic crisis through fraud , excessive risk-taking , incompetence , and insider dealing .
both those committed to trade liberalization within a multilateral system and those committed to helping developing countries will look at america ’ s new strategy with ab horr ence .
when forced to choose between full employment and price stability , the international finance economists say that the fed will choose price stability , because its institutional memory of the 1970 ’ s , when inflation ran rampant , remains very strong .
since the fourth quarter of 2008 , america ’ s net national saving rate has been negative – in sharp contrast to the 6.4 % -of-gdp averaged over the last three decades of the twentieth century .
in the eight recoveries since the early 1950 ’ s ( excluding the brief pop following the credit- control s- induced slump in the 1980 ’ s ) , the stock - adjustment response lifted real consumption growth by 6. 1 % , on average , for five quarters following business- cycle downturns ; spur ts of 7- 8 % growth were not uncommon for a quarter or two .
this view seems intu itively correct , but is it ?
we would do well to recall how , at the beginning of the 1990 ’ s , book after book was still being written urging us and european corporations to im itate japan or face certain doom .
this level of annual borrowing is far too high for comfort . it must be cut , but how ?
even in those states where mortgages are not “ no recourse ” loans , creditors generally do not pursue the assets or income of individuals who default .
but , as sein acknowledged at the white house , myanmar ’ s government “ has been en countering obstacles and challenges along [ its ] democratization process . ”
but the impact of america 's planned troop withdraw als is felt most ke enly in south korea .
so a company that fires all its workers and then ships from stock can look very productive – until it runs outs of stock .
incompetence in implementation has strategic consequences .
the administration argues that all hell would break loose if we tried to play by the usual rules with these big banks .
instead of being able to focus on us foreign policy ’ s “ pivot ” to asia , obama was forced to spend many hours in conversation with the leaders of egypt and israel , and to dispat ch secretary of state hillary clinton from asia , in order to facilitate a cease-fire in gaza .
indeed , the paradox of america ’ s pernicious policies in iraq is that they have created favorable conditions for an arab-israeli peace , as the emergence of iran and the threat of a fundamentalist tsunami have focused arab minds on the urgency of a settlement with israel .
technological change and globalization have created similar labor-market challenges in other developed countries .
to do so would require calling for higher taxes , and that – as george h. w. bush learned in 1992 – is no way to get re-elected .
there is a third reason that this war is economically bad for america .
other fbi agents reported seeing prisoners left in shack les for 12 hours or more , again in cold conditions , being subjected to stro be lights and loud r ap music for many hours , or being forced to wr ap themselves in an israeli flag .
inconvenient truths about the us trade deficit
little of this is reassuring .
the six major banking crises in the advanced economies since the mid- 1970s were all associated with a housing bust .
brazil is also reaching out to other emerging countries , such as its fellow brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) and members of the ib sa dialogue forum ( india , brazil , and south africa ) .
moreover , one hopes the benchmark will pro d into action all of the firms that have not even bothered to join the fight against amr .
en ver z ig an sh in , the chief engineer of bp russia , was shot to death in ir k ut sk on september 30 .
a recent oecd study reminds us , once again , that per capita income levels are roughly 30 % lower in the euro area , as well as in the three largest continental countries – france , germany , and italy – that dominate its performance , than in the united states .
for the alliance of civilizations to have any chance of success , the emphasis must be on reciprocity .
his budget would also increase taxes on corporations , and would end the current pay rol l- tax “ holiday , ” imposing an additional 2 % tax on all wage earners .
within a few hours of the accident , critics trained their sights on all the usual suspects : the minerals management service , for giving bp a pass on routine inspections and lap sing into a relationship with the oil industry that united states president barack obama denounced as “ cozy ” ; obama himself , for having failed to enact the reforms at the interior department that he had promised while campaigning for election ; the oil services firm tran so ce an , for the faulty blow out prev enter ; and , of course , bp , for a “ lax ” and even “ reckless ” safety culture .
yes , such a bold step would transform nato .
nonetheless , the ess ’ s soft-power vision should not be allowed to obscure the security challenges that europe faces .
iran ’ s nuclear ambitions have long posed a major security threat in the middle east , as they raise the risk of preemptive military action by israel or the us and , perhaps even more har row ing , of a regional arms race with the gulf states and turkey .
up to now , a focus on who has been appointed to what post – in particular , the appointment of the relatively inexperienced feder ica mo gh er ini as eu high representative for the common foreign and security policy – has overshad owed the commission ’ s structural transformation .
there is much work to be done in integrating the new organizational model with existing bank structures and practice areas .
although figures do not convey the cruelty by all sides , it has become de rig u eur to cite the numbers : more than 100,000 dead , 2.3 million refugees , and four million people internally displaced .
this simple logic has put american politics in the hands of the rich as never before .
with the us no longer viewed as a supplier of high-quality financial assets , one would expect the dollar to have weakened .
the problem with the supreme leader ’ s calculation , however , is that ahmadinejad is a loose cann on .
it was right to encourage a new economy to grow outside these con ge aled structures .
it clearly demonstrates the strength of the bond between america and europe in dealing with the complex and unpredictable security challenges of our age .
first , its foreign payments are unsustainable .
of course , a grave question arises about the now- ruling supreme council of the military high command in egypt : how can the enfor c ers of the status quo become the agents of change ?
there is broad consensus that chile must change hiring and firing rules , allow unions to negotiate shifts and working hours , improve on-  and off- the- job training , and make more information available to job- seekers .
a generation ago , this message would have been here tical .
or , if they are signed , they are often broken when compelling short-term considerations intervene .
domestic stabilization measures earlier this year bought her some time , yet fear of a recession remains .
in brazil ’ s upcoming presidential election , both of the incumbent dilma rousseff ’ s main opponents are advocating policies that har k back to the good old days .
we know what needs to be done to restore ocean health , but we can not do it alone .
first , the true personal distribution of income – comprising all income , whether from labor or from capital – is almost surely worse than commonly cited headline figures suggest .
the commission will share its recommendations with governments .
to be sure , progress in any field , from commerce and communications to health and environmental science , will become increasingly dependent on technological innovation , and thus on the high- order skills – acquired through intensive technical training – that drive it .
another challenge lies in the decline in the shanghai stock exchange composite index from its 2007 peak of 6,000 to around 2,000 today .
given excess domestic savings , a tightly controlled capital account , and rapid credit creation , interest rates have been low relative to demand since 2005 .
the question is whether the government can follow through on its ambitious reform and development plans .
nonetheless , because china is a net lender to the world , lg f v debt has no global systemic implications .
a green project is bank able only if it provides a clear view of its real costs and benefits .
a moratorium on conventional coal plants would be a smart place to start .
according to the international monetary fund , the budget deficit is declining , and the primary surplus ( net revenues minus interest payments ) is growing .
they will want to protect all social spending , regardless of the consequences for foreign policy .
china also has increasingly questioned india ’ s sovereignty over ar un achal pradesh , the northeastern indian state that china ’ s rulers call “ southern tibet ” and claim largely as their own .
in private conversation , one might even take him for a liberal – one of a new breed of young and well-educated propaganda officials with an increasingly higher threshold of political sensitivity .
we also must plan to change for the long term .
we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and real public control .
the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty .
brussels – austerity alone can not solve europe 's economic and financial crisis .
but bush , following the terrorist attacks of 2001 , turned his back on conservatism . he sought to radically reinvent the middle east , not only by over throwing the taliban regime in afghanistan and saddam hussein ’ s regime in iraq , but also through his str ident calls for democratization .
iran ’ s participation in an international peace conference is an absolute necessity , if only to test rowhani ’ s seriousness .
these problems are exceedingly common and art fully avoided because the science that would account for them just doesn ’ t exist .
there is a second obstruc tion as well : the us congress refuses to face up realistically to the climate challenge , because china , as a developing country , is not obliged to accept compulsory carbon limits . then , because the us refuses to take responsibility for its cumulative and per capita greenhouse-gas emissions – which are , respectively , roughly four and three times greater than china ’ s – the chinese leadership refuses to make concessions .
each state would have the authority and the obligation to provide for the economic , cultural , religious , and welfare needs of its citizens living in the other state ’ s territory .
perhaps the low est- cost way to undermine rivals and attack enemies is to launch attacks in cyberspace .
the rich and powerful nations often declare their leadership in the world .
two months later , in portugal , similar par ades featured the same hit l er ized merkel caric atures , borne by how ling demonstrators dressed in mour ning clothes and dec rying the german leader ’ s “ policy of massac ring the poor . ”
angela merkel ’ s new momentum
but you off end many people and get into trouble by answering too quickly .
point edly , russia claims that it is a status quo power , contr asting itself with the us , which it calls a “ revisionist ” power seeking to destabilize the world by promoting regime change , especially in the arab world .
even when appearing to support greener technologies , governments are prone to sudden policy changes , sometimes retro actively , leaving businesses reluctant to commit to significant investments , or even take official statements seriously at all .
blaming outsiders is politically expedient .
the institution has since acknowledged its errors in all these areas .
however , the only scientific study showing any such thing indicates that four polar bears drowned because of a storm .
gil ani invited singh to visit pakistan , an invitation that “ will be considered carefully , ” according to indian foreign secretary n ir up ama ra o . and she spoke of a new environment : “ today , it is the mo hal i spirit that perv ades our relationship .
as a result , whenever the fed cuts interest rates , it puts pressure on the whole “ dollar bloc ” to follow suit , lest their currencies appreciate as investors seek higher yields .
these are not two fights , but one .
how can they ensure that their relationship with their future partner is equal ?
bringing the iran deal back home
those anti-american attitudes , newly hardened once again , will make it much more difficult to get the necessary intelligence against the islamic state on the ground and to deprive them of the support of other sunni militias .
he is weighing the value of further dis memb er ment of ukraine , with some pieces either joining russia or becoming russian v ass al states , against the pain of much stronger and more comprehensive economic sanctions .
xi ’ s moves to strengthen his hand have helped to convince observers that he means business with the reform agenda .
if assad ’ s ba ’ ath party can not uphold that responsibility , it for fe its its own legitimacy as a particip ant in any future government .
that happens at the olympics , too , of course .
in theory , this already has happened : k . r. nar ay an an , born into a poor dal it family , served as india ’ s president , the highest office in the land , from 1997 to 2002 .
and once syria ’ s air- defense system is sufficiently degraded , it would be best if arab countries – saudi arabia , qatar , and other gulf states – and turkey used their air forces to police the zone .
a cartel could advance the cause of comprehensive immigration and exp at labor reform in many countries , including the united states , japan , and the gulf states .
if only it were that easy .
likewise , there will be problems establishing ties between serbia and kosovo under any circumstances .
or is it that we have become so in ured to bad news surrounding the war on terror that we have no desire to know more ?
but times are hardly normal .
it thus comes as little surprise that the us and much of the world have explored alternatives , including regime change in iran .
when used judic iously , antibiotics save lives and prevent the transmission of deadly diseases .
i propose an initiative that rates pharmaceutical companies according to their contribution to solving the antibio tic- resistance problem ; those that do not contribute should be punished with fewer sales .
a populist protectionist would be headed to the white house . ”
this backlash was predictable .
second , more than a generation of inequ itable and slow er- than- expected economic growth in the global north has created a strong political and psychological need for scapego ats .
mc f add en has pin pointed the central solution to globalization ’ s challenges : giving people “ the tools to reap the benefits ” of the globalized world , thereby making the “ connected world work better for people . ”
there are many ways that international institutions can use economic-policy levers to reduce significantly the probability of infec ti ous - disease outbreaks , and to increase vulnerable countries ’ resilience to such risks .
minimizing the risks they pose requires recognizing that they are intertwined with the social , behavioral , and cultural landscape .
when a country rati fies the seed treaty , it agrees that its own seed banks – in the us , the re pos itory at fort coll ins , color ado – will adhere to the same rules as the c gi ar centers .
but that is not what the average citizen sees .
the us role as the invisible third party to the agreement involves a series of incentives offered to the regime in khar tou m to ensure agreement and implementation of a peace deal .
and , just as importantly , they now understand that it is not enough to ensure that governments can finance their debt at reasonable interest rates ; they must also address the weakness of europe ’ s banking system .
future generations are counting on it .
it is not just that the profession didn ’ t forecast the crisis . their models , taken literally , sometimes suggested that a crisis of this magnitude couldn ’ t happen .
strengthening democracy means working with the kenyan developers of a crisis- mapping platform that allows anyone with a cell phone to text information about election fraud or violence to a central monitoring station .
first , we now know that adaptation will be essential , because temperatures will rise by another 0. 6 °c by 2100 even if greenhouse gas emissions are eliminated tomorrow .
nato , osce , and other key regional institutions must give this concept and process their essential support .
if a phone has a back door , it can be opened by anyone with enough motivation – criminals , extremists , and governments alike .
so a more concrete undertaking , one that preser ves south korea ’ s bedrock security concerns , is needed .
unfortunately our present methods of detection are not sensitive enough .
it is only faith in the idea that our lives matter , and that our decisions must be judged by their moral content , that we in ukraine , and elsewhere , will be able to find our way out of the misery , un happiness , and despair that has consumed us over the last two years .
but asia ’ s aqu if ers – many of which were formed millennia ago , when areas like northern china had a more hum id climate – are no longer being repl en ished regularly by rainfall .
economic reforms will succeed only if they are coupled with far-reaching political reforms , which would inevitably shake the regime ’ s foundation .
arab fathers and sons
but , by being allowed to acquire popular legitimacy and a high degree of acceptance within the political establishment as the driving force behind the ruling party ’ s preparations for the post- mubarak era , gamal is being positioned strategically to compete effectively for the presidency .
with economic privileges dol ed out in a way that blocked the emergence of independent entrepreneurs that might eventually challenge the autocrats ’ control , favored firms were able to acquire virtual monopolies over entire liberalized economic sectors .
when the revolutions erupted , there were plenty of reasons for ordinary people , especially the young and the educated middle classes , to feel politically alienated .
the lebanese prime minister announced his resignation abroad , but reversed the statement later .
as it stands , while most arab countries spend a fair amount relative to their income levels , they achieve relatively poor outcomes , especially in health and education .
unfortunately , most of the alternatives call for the continued use of violence and terrorism .
is another down swing in their fortunes and reputations now starting ?
but there are still even more children to save , and we need help to do our work on the ground .
putin comes closest , but even he is not hitler .
blin der and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together explain 56 % of the growth gap .
there are obvious obstacles to holding such a referendum , primarily because the us does not have a mandate to dispose of iraq as it pleas es .
nothing exemp lifies this more than changes in national fdi regimes .
worse still , could the mood in housing markets soon lead prices in downward ?
perhaps this underlies the significant drop in deaths inflicted by war since 1945 – a decline that has become even steep er over the past 20 years .
to be sure , violence is always a problem .
president barack obama recently jour ne yed to moscow in order to “ reset ” strained united stat es- russian ties .
in fact , support for democracy cor responds with a number of other liberal attitudes that we found in saudi arabia .
war implies armies and command structures that can be recognized , if not clearly known ; in any case , war entails a military confrontation with an identi fiable adversary .
oil prices gradually fell , and the stock market began its long climb towards its peak in 2000 .
that led to a surge in imports that was not accompanied by a proportional increase in exports , widening the current-account deficit to 4.6 % of gdp and s owing doubt about the virtues of the new approach .
argentina ’ s monetary policy is based on inflation targeting and a floating exchange rate .
economists might respond by suggesting that mortgages , insurance contracts , and other agreements could be indexed to the price level , adjusting payments to the contemporary rate of inflation .
the reality , which is already becoming apparent , is not nearly so rosy .
the reason is clear : by taking time to set the stage for liberalization , governments hoped to limit the initial spike in price inflation , thereby avoiding a w age- price spiral and curbing capital flight .
even afterwards , the financial community and the international monetary fund hoped to establish some order in sovereign- bond markets simply by t wea king debt contracts , particularly the terms of so-called collec tive- action clauses ( which bind all creditors to a restructuring proposal approved by a super majority ) .
ensuring that outcome will be the number one job for a newly re-elected president cristina kirchner .
argentina has the world ’ s largest fleet of vehicles running on com pressed natural gas ; families use gas inten sively ; most electricity is generated with gas ; and the petro chemical industry is based on it .
twenty years ago , the world tried to address these realities through treaties and international law .
indeed , some of the most dangerous decisions taken in both the eu and nato are those that are not openly discussed be fore hand .
the us constitution , after all , does not guarantee the fed ’ s independence .
apple is shifting some manufacturing from china to silicon valley ; air tex design group is moving part of its textile production from china back to the united states .
in particular , developing economies can choose to take a for ward- thinking approach that includes strengthening their digital foundations and actively encouraging ai adoption .
consider that the main components of economic growth are increases in the labor force , increases in investment ( both public and private ) , and “ productivity , ” namely the output than can be produced with a given amount of inputs , thanks to new ideas .
today , many human- to- human jobs that involve physical and emotional care taking are undervalued .
ai follows albert einstein ’ s dictum that genius r enders simplicity from complexity .
of course , this is just the state of technology today – and high rates of investment may quickly change what is possible .
in these last five crisis- ridden years , the fed has affected the world economy in two ways : through its hyper active policy of purchasing long-term assets – so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) – and through its largely overlooked role in providing international liquidity .
initially she follows in her older sister ’ s footsteps in quest of their common dream , to attend one of china ’ s top universities .
but , owing to the sheer scale of the sdgs , the participants had to h ash out their differences , and develop a common language to devise the best way forward .
states that are so regarded consistently pun ch above their weight – witness the scandin avi ans .
in the future , this regional caucus could , if circumstances allowed , evolve into a more comprehensive regional security arrangement that supplements as e an- led mechanisms .
most recently , china decided to move an oil ri g into waters claimed by vietnam .
or consider the future of manufacturing . technologies such as 3d printing and cheap industrial robots are enabling products to be made in small , high ly- custom ized forms rather than large bat ches of uniform goods .
a se ism ic crime
while the imf ’ s primary scenario is that irish and portuguese debt levels will soon stop rising , it comes with a chilling lit any of downside risks .
these are still not “ normal ” times , and the “ vicious cycles ” persist .
household debt and unemployment have fallen ; corporate profits and cash reserves are large ; the stock market is valuing the future generously ; banks are ready to lend ; and fiscal consolidation is no longer hampering demand .
asia after the afghan war
according to most experts , while china ’ s capacity is improving , the us remains the world leader in research , development , and commerci alization of these technologies .
def using asia ’ s arms race
this is because the policies they have pursued have integrated their economies so completely into global trade and finance , on unequal terms .
by 2050 , asia ’ s urban population could nearly double , to three billion people .
moreover , environmental degradation has left huge swaths of land barr en .
subsequently , china ’ s growing self-confidence and leadership helped to spear head regional institution building and cooperation .
asia also benefited during these years from strong global tail winds , including favorable external financing conditions and the rapid expansion of the chinese economy .
this time it is from europe , where a raging sovereign-debt crisis threatens to turn a mild recession into something far worse : a possible greek exit from the euro , which could trigger contagion across the eurozone .
most notably , china has established new development institutions , the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new silk road fund , to which it will channel tens of billions of dollars – clear challenges to the established western- dominated multilateral institutions .
it means sticking to principles , but also attempting to understand the other side , however irrational or intransig ent it may sometimes appear .
increased confidence in their country ’ s political systems and institutional structures , enhanced by improved perceptions of upward mobility , will help to strengthen the rule of law .
and in japan , although prime minister shinzo abe has implemented far-reaching reforms , they have yet to reign ite economic dynamism , and efforts to address the demographic threat posed by a rapidly aging population have not even begun .
for any of this to work , bureaucracies and the private sector , including business leaders and academics , must actively support high-level political commitments to integration .
others , however , see a chinese strategy that is confused , contradictory , and paralyzed by competing bureaucratic interests .
but something very different emerged in asia in 2011 .
yet the path on which both countries have embarked was not lee ’ s path .
according to the oecd , the share of working south koreans aged 6 5- 69 was as high as 45 % in 2016 ; for 7 0- 7 4- year- olds , the figure stands at 33 % .
calls by the us for closer cooperation bode well for this process , though the us still needs to focus more on the globally ascend ant and aggressive china than on a declining russia .
the thai economy emerged out of its post- 1997 crisis dol drums under thaksin ’ s watch , and is now firmly positioned on a 6 % annual growth trajectory .
cheap labor and monetary management will not do the trick on their own .
though unlikely , his bar is an na sional coalition could fall apart .
japan is embroiled in a dispute with china over the senkaku ( diaoyu ) islands in the east china sea .
china ’ s leaders recognize that their country needs time , space , and peace for economic development .
for example , the momentum could expand south ward and stimulate asean , which has bilateral ft as with all three countries , to join the group .
japan should no longer be denied fair treatment because of events more than 60 years ago .
the pr c ’ s population is aging , real wages are rising , and growth is moder ating toward more sustainable rates .
a similar transformation occurred in south korea , where a 2.8 % current-account deficit in 199 6- 1997 became an 8. 6 % surplus in 199 8- 1999 .
the goal should be to ensure that savings in surplus countries – including , say , germany , which has a larger current-account surplus than china and japan – are used wisely , to help sustain growth throughout the world economy .
and a gas pipeline from turkmen istan to pakistan , which would tra verse the country , is coming closer to reality .
if satellite technology is fully exploited , farmers could receive real-time information on their mobile phones about how much water to use and when .
there are several reasons why so much per ishable food is lost , including the absence of modern food distribution chains , too few col d- storage centers and refriger ated trucks , poor transportation facilities , erratic electricity supply , and the lack of incentives to invest in the sector .
while i was there , the leaders joined together in highlighting progress that they have already made on crucial issues such as governance and power-sharing .
it is an idea whose time has come , because there is no longer an alternative path from conflict .
only a brave person would stand in the way of those expecting to become rich by trading internet stocks with one another , or would deny people the opportunity to own their own homes because they could not afford them .
the fed is therefore trying to t amp down expectations concerning future interest-rate levels , by suggesting that changes in demography and productivity trends imply lower real rates in the future .
as for the rest , the amounts that are not already committed to the peripheral countries could be used to support borrowing that can be lent onward to italy and spain .
above all , any realistic strategy for dealing with the eurozone crisis must involve massive write- downs ( forgiveness ) of peripheral countries ’ debt .
such exchange offers can limit private creditors ’ losses if they are done early .
a tale of two american economies
in addition , the european parliament ’ s det achment from national political debates means that it has less political legitimacy than is desirable .
vo te- buying became increasingly insufficient . a bond between party and voters – a bond based on policy – took root .
guantánamo bay – i write this from the united states detention center at guantánamo bay , where i have been held without charge for almost seven years .
transparency in procurement works wonders .
in east asia ( minus japan ) , governments appear to have been doing rather well .
in law , when two criminals seal a contract with the blood of their victims , that act remains a crime , even if the two criminals later have a falling out and spr ay bullets at one another .
the cup ’ s explo sions of proud nationalism hide more tortured realities .
so , rather than investing in new projects , private investors tend to prefer to channel their money toward operational infrastructure that is already generating stable revenue .
the trans- b ai k al region could relatively easily expand ties with the resource- hungry asian economies , to the benefit of all .
last month , in a man hatt an court , judge den ny chin rejected that proposed settlement , in part because it would have given google a de facto monopoly over the digital versions of so-called “ orph an ” books – that is , books that are still in copyright , but no longer in print , and whose copyright ownership is difficult to determine .
the us congress ’ s deep reservations regarding the passage of a climate bill has been exacerbated by china ’ s positions , especially on issues such as international monitoring and accountability for its emissions , which china considers an affron t to its sovereignty .
washington , dc – the german government ’ s reaction to newly elected french president françois hollande ’ s call for more growth- oriented policies was to say that there should be no change in the eurozone ’ s austerity programs .
of course , there is two- way feedback between debt and growth , but normal recessions last only a year and can not explain a two- decade period of malaise .
the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) had brought a law suit against the four , actions that included taking huge financial risks while “ knowing that the real estate market was in a ‘ bubble . ’ ”
that is larger than the chinese surplus has ever been – and sc ary because it sub tr acts net demand from the rest of europe and the world economy .
similarly , public-sector wage cuts and caps – currently being pursued by 75 developing countries – threaten to undermine service delivery to citizens , particularly at the local level in poor rural areas , where a single teacher or nur se can determine whether a child receives an education or health care .
un clo s – now generally accepted as customary international law even by countries that have not joined it , like the us – is the only acceptable framework for resolving these issues .
alternatively , can “ politically correct ” behavior be a form of reck lessness , to the extent that it ev ades difficult issues and focuses on what is easier to justify rather than what is right ?
in the first episode of a touch of sin , the local boss has become a private- plan e- owning billionaire by str ipping and selling all of his region ’ s collective assets .
but over the next 12 months , he will have to deal with a widening current-account deficit and a mountain of dollar-denominated debt .
berkeley – intelligent machines are transforming the way we produce , work , learn , and live throughout the world .
nonetheless , any discussion about a i- based automation must also take public anxieties into account .
rather than cage the golden go ose of technological progress , policymakers should focus on measures that help those who are displaced , such as education and training programs , and income support and social safety nets , including wage insurance , lifetime retraining loans , and portable health and pension benefits .
in the long term , overall economic growth depends on growth in the labor force and its productivity .
and state and local governments should do more to shine a spotlight on their jurisdictions ’ competitive strengths and emerging opportunities .
those regime changes required people to change not only their way of life , but also their habits of mind .
it could use the committee on foreign investment in the united states to reject b ids by chinese companies in specific sectors where the u . s. possesses valuable intellectual property .
moreover , corporations , charities , and other institutions fil ing libel suits will now have to show that they suffered financial damage .
we demanded an independent judiciary , because we believed that democracy and prosperity are impossible without the rule of law , and that the rule of law requires a judiciary that can act as a constraint on the government .
in post- modern democracies , there is one and only one boss : public opinion .
in less fe ver ish times than these , no one could possibly have taken exception to queen beat ri x ’ s speech last christmas , when she p lead ed for tolerance and “ respect for minorities . ”
in fact , it weakens respect for law .
a positive watershed , under- appreciated today , developed in the years immediately after world war ii with the political transformation of germany and japan .
today , the eu is being asked to conduct complex missions in adverse circumstances .
the bank ’ s activities currently touch on all of these areas , but it fails to lead effectively on any of them .
today ’ s reality , however , is that great powers can no longer divide and conqu er other regions , even if they try .
then , as chinese were wondering why 2008 , a year of supposed good fortune marked by the lucky number eight , had started with so much mis fortune , a deadly earthquake struck sichuan province , killing 8 0,000 people and leaving millions homeless .
most americans care little about china 's currency policy or its stance on intellectual property rights . but if chinese- made products threaten their health and safety , there are sure to be opportun istic lawmakers ready to fan the flames .
but , despite tony blair 's one-time declaration that he would take britain `` into the heart of europe , '' he remains vis cer ally opposed to the prospect of further integration , and he will resist any new encro achment on british sovereignty in his `` red line '' areas of tax , foreign policy , and eu budget finance .
“ when the facts change , i change my mind .
instead , putin has allowed gazprom ’ s management to block proposals from his own government on the long overdue un bund ling of the company .
in cambodia , another leading recipient of chinese loans , fears of effectively becoming a chinese col ony are on the rise .
in 2016 , we are re- learning that , politically , globalization needs to be managed not just to permit the winners to win , but also to ensure that they do not che at or neglect their responsibilities to their societies .
in a no d to the importance of the councils to realizing change at the most local level , the world bank and its partners have adopted a highly innovative program that channels rural development aid through the councils , which have been empowered to decide how the funds will be spent .
· infrastructure : those of you who have traveled abroad know that our infrastructure is desperately lagging that of a growing number of countries .
proprietary trading was justified not because it created large profits for banks ( it did ) , but because it was supposed to create markets and provide liquidity for rarely traded instruments .
much has changed since the nazi era .
without sanctions to police global imbalances , the french step forward will take us halfway across a yawning ch asm .
republican lawmakers are discussing how to bind the fed to more scrip ted policy rules to manage inflation ( using a formula known as the taylor rule , which pre determines changes in the federal funds rate in relation to inflation and an output gap ) .
but its basic approach remained critically flawed .
the instinct of governments , however , may be to revert to the idea of protecting national champions or reasser ting national sovereignty in some sectors .
for hun t ington , the yugos lav  wars fit his simplistic paradigm perfectly , with western christianity – cathol icism and protest anti sm – on one side , and the rest of europe ’ s religions on the other .
while we don ’ t have the data for a conclusive assessment of why rates of abuse are so high in the garment trade , the data are consistent with the prevailing popular view that women in this field are somehow associated with sex work and sexual promis cu ity .
for many years bangladesh was an exception in the islamic world , pursuing an independent course in a peaceful , secular , and democratic fashion .
moreover , the world trade organization ’ s doha round of global trade negotiations desperately needs to be concluded , and the eu has made a number of positive moves in this direction by proposing vast changes to its export subsidies regime .
now the us faces the uncertainty of a presidential election , weaker parts of the eurozone continue to struggle , and japan is tee tering on the edge of outright economic contraction .
but regulation could change that .
created after wwii to finance temporary imbalances of the members of a fixed- exchange rate system , the imf has been in search of a cause since the demise of the dollar exchange-rate system in 1971 .
in the absence of such studies , regulators must use their own judgment and intelligence .
others , like the bank of england ( boe ) , have full instrument independence – control over short-term interest rates – but must meet an inflation target set by the government .
consider a scenario in which the boe were given a mandate to maximize economic growth and meet a 2 % inflation target .
any sign of a ver tical move ( implying higher inflation with an unemployment rate at na ir u ) , rather than a horiz on tal one ( a lower unemployment rate without cpi inflation ) , will be welcomed by the boj , and good for the economy at large .
but his administration could intensify the necessary prepar atory work – for presenting new information , answering detailed questions , and dis p elling old myths and mis conceptions – before he leaves office .
ever since its great military victory in the six- day war of 1967 , when it rep elled the combined armies of egypt , syria , and jordan , which had openly proclaimed their desire to destroy the jewish state , israel has been in the throes of an ideological and military confusion resulting from the conqu ests it made during that conflict .
for a european who has been deeply troubled and sadd ened by america ’ s evolution in the last decade , obama , of all the declared presidential candidates , seems to come closest to incar n ating such an america .
half of states no longer teach civ ics – the study of our republic and how it works – in middle school .
now that enlargement has taken place , it is easier to discuss migration objec tively .
in the event of an increase in a commodity ’ s price , a finance minister who has done a perfect job of hedging export- price risk on the futures market will suddenly find himself accused of having gam bled away the national pat rim ony .
ignoring previous precedent and all economic common sense , he threw international financial markets into turmoil .
on june 18 , china ’ s second largest financial institution , china construction bank , was designated as the official renminbi clearing bank for london .
but this does not appear to be the diagnosis of stock markets , notably in the united states , where equities are trading at record-high prices .
berkeley – for the leaders of the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) , the announcement in july of their agreement to establish a “ new development bank ” ( n db ) and a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” ( cr a ) was a public-relations coup .
as china satisfied its demand for safe assets , it turned to riskier foreign investments .
the 18 32 reform act gave the vote to individuals with at least £ 10 of property – not an in consequential sum , to be sure , but low enough to en franch ise the middle class .
the eurozone will not collapse this year , but its troubles are far from over .
but the minimum wage has never reached the floor set for a “ living income ” and has not , therefore , appreci ably reduced the bill for wage subsidies .
finally , america should start to develop a me ans - tested income supplement for workers whose jobs are displaced , or whose wages are undercut , by automation .
the “ trial ” itself lasted less than an hour .
moreover , tobacco output increased 32 % .
china ’ s attacks have pushed li , after almost three weeks of st ony silence , to do something he had never done before : strike back .
compared with expensive grid expansion , providing an off- grid , solar cell is very cheap .
international funding can also be used to back the creation of a “ global pollution observ atory . ”
of course , it is possible that these events are an aberr ation .
as long as crippling economic sanctions remain in place , the government will be unable to have its yel low cake and eat it , too .
but it is not the only reason we should care about the country ’ s fate .
when the chips are down , expect trump to do the same .
if they get it , matters will most likely go from bad to worse .
bernanke continues to stress that shifts in the pace of bond buying will depend on how well the economy is doing .
but his response to its aftermath was unexpectedly disappointing .
but many jihadi groups and individuals , particularly young people , have signaled their support for the caliphate .
but , with g-20 finance ministers preparing to meet again in washington , dc , next month , a note of caution is in order : simply increasing infrastructure investment is not enough to foster growth and job creation .
the number of people living in extreme poverty would fall by 160 million .
by the time the mdgs concluded in 2015 , they had fueled some of the fastest and most extensive gains in global health and development the world has ever seen .
( how many years is “ many ” ?
but today , the balance is shifting .
a liquid , cash- settled futures market that is based on an index of home prices in a city would enable a home owner living there to sell in a futures market to protect himself .
this investment shortfall is due to many factors , but perhaps the main one is that there are substantial medium-term institutional road blocks to investment in many developing countries , where long-term returns now seem to be by far the highest .
a robust international nuclear safety action plan is being implemented .
today , large parts of africa , latin america , and asia have still not recovered from mistakes made during previous economic downturns .
partnerships based on shared rules , standards , and values are the heart beat of modern security .
so what should be done to bring this about ?
elements of a constructive way forward are hiding in plain sight .
google has become a de facto gat e keep er of information , to the extent that if your site is not highly ranked by google , you are like the tree falling in the forest with no one to hear it .
“ net n ann ies ” – as china ’ s internet cen sors are often dubbed – blocked sensitive articles less frequently .
to succeed , conglomerates need the support of government and the acceptance of society .
this debate misses the point .
google , at least for a short while , seemed to follow different guidelines in its chinese business , appearing to adhere to its widely proclaimed ethical principle , “ don ’ t be evil . ”
as long as this business model prevails , price g oug ing will continue .
taken together , these actions are saving millions of lives .
the increased competition and new manufacturing approaches created by these companies have made it possible to protect a child against eight major diseases – including te tan us , who oping cou gh , polio , and tuberculosis – for less than $ 30 .
but why make life under capitalism more complicated than it already is ?
eliminating genetically caused conditions in future children might seem a welcome goal , particularly to couples with a family history of such diseases .
homegrown energy security for europe
if mandates for bio fuel use were applied over several years , instead of only one , policymakers could influence demand in order to minimize pressure on food prices .
but , in order to build the disease networks of tomorrow , we will need to move beyond the current linear approaches to science and to how scientists work .
the concept of private cryptocurrencies was born of mistrust of official money .
but it is folly to think that bitcoin will ever be allowed to suppl ant central- bank- issued money .
this would carry in calcul able consequences for india ’ s most valuable asset : its democracy .
consider this : since 1978 , american consumers have been asked whether their current financial situation is better or worse than it was a year earlier .
this is not a trivial loss ; but nor does it put “ the world economy at risk . ”
and there would be money left over to help develop an hiv vaccine , deliver drugs to treat heart attacks , provide a he pati tis b vaccine to the developing world , and prevent 31 million children from starving each year .
in fact , putting up a wind turb ine cuts no extra co2 , because total emissions are already capped under the eu-wide carbon- trading scheme .
for example , even as late as 1970 , only around 5 % of infants were vaccinated against measles , te tan us , who oping cou gh , di ph ther ia , and polio .
this is true , because the poor are the most vulnerable and have the least resources with which to adapt .
almost all climate models are running far too hot , meaning that the real challenge of global warming has been exaggerated .
all we can say is that the money spent to reduce violence might be better targeted .
no bear , if it knew what we do , would fall into that trap .
against all expectations , it struck a morally advantageous posture by offering to surrender some part of its budget reb ate , but only if the rest of the european union ( i. e . france , in particular ) would agree to fundamental reforms of eu farm policy .
should we burn our existing textbooks and re write them from scratch ?
when the foreign share of debt grows , so do the political incentives to impose the costs of that debt on foreigners .
more generally , cryptocurrencies have entered a not-so- cryp tic apocalyp se .
bernie sanders would prefer to break up the banks .
people – and their elected leaders as well -- often have the feeling that such seemingly innocent proposals are in fact part of an ominous “ hidden agenda . ”
power corrup ts everywhere , but individuals in china such as liu have come to form a counterv ailing force .
in the end , even sp ass ky paid the ultimate tribute to fischer ’ s genius , cl apping along with the audience after fischer ’ s inspired six th- game victory , as portrayed in the movie .
but even here japan ’ s situation is not as dire as many seem to think , owing to its limited exposure to china ; for example , exports to china amount to only 3 % of japan ’ s gdp .
in many countries , tax reform has already significantly increased the share of direct taxes in overall revenue .
bombs , books , and buc ks
regarding the stock market and the housing market , there may well be a major downward correction someday .
during the most recent three months , core inflation rose at a 2.8 % annual rate .
in the us , the far right shares many of the characteristics of its populist european counterparts .
given that most of these items are not bio degrad able , and are not recycl ed , plastics waste is building up – with serious environmental consequences .
a 2014 survey indicated that south korean women spent , on average , three hours and 28 minutes daily on household activities and family care , compared to just 47 minutes for men , who also accounted for only 5.6 % of those who took parental leave in 2015 .
after 50 years of inefficiency , it is time to try something new .
allowing trucks and trains to cross the eu ’ s internal borders without interrup tion not only facilitates trade ; it also encourages the development of regional supply chains and production networks .
to save the eu , european leaders should focus on making people feel safe with interdependence .
and , while the constitution protects a citizen ’ s “ right to life , ” it makes an exception when the termin ation of a life is “ in execution of the sentence of a court . ”
the answer appears to be that there is nobody in the financial centers of new york , london , tokyo , frankfurt , and hong kong who thinks it is their business to bet on a future flight from the dollar .
in addition to the use of drones , conservation r angers are now equipped with he at- detec ting ther mal cameras and military helicop ters , and can track elephant and rhin o po ach ers , who reportedly use similar technologies ( as well as automatic weapons ) in pursuing their prey .
a 2013 essay in the journal foreign affairs , ti tled “ india ’ s feeble foreign policy , ” focused on how the country is resisting its own rise , as if the political mi as ma in new delhi had turned the country into its own worst enemy .
this would raise the stakes for chinese border violations , thereby boosting deterrence .
indeed , abe ’ s visit to yasukuni came only a day after he completed a long- elusive , us- backed bilateral deal to relocate america ’ s air base in okinawa to a less populous area of the island .
and the political environment is amenable to their plans : india now conduc ts more joint military exercises with the us than with any other country .
indeed , it has repeatedly shown a kn ack for dis aggreg ating its strategy into multiple parts and then pursuing each element separately in such a manner as to allow the different pieces to fall into place with minimal resistance .
as a result , afghanistan is now at risk of becoming parti tioned along ethnic and tribal lines , with militi a - or war l ord -controlled enclaves proliferating .
while born of a real sense of fiscal urgency , the biggest risk is that it will eventually fuel political conflict around the ceiling itself , rather than foster deliberation about the difficult fiscal choices that must be made .
already , it has proposed to brazil ’ s congress a constitutional amendment for bidding for the next 20 years nominal annual increases in public expenditures , including at the sub national level , that exceed the previous year ’ s inflation rate .
our research shows that industrial policy was successful in promoting a competitive bio ethanol industry in brazil .
brazil ’ s institutional lim bo
the process of reducing interest rates – anchored on a solid tax policy and enabled by the removal of institutional obstacles ( such as the rule of remuner ation of savings accounts ) – was extended to the second half of 2012 , leading to a real annual rate under 2 % .
fixing fiscal policy is necessary not just to reassure investors .
for all countries , this is a major challenge – a revolution that implies a huge shift in policy .
just as philosophers are divided on the nature of truth and understanding , economics is divided on the workings of the real world .
but there is more to the issue – namely , whether screening ultimately ful fills its intended purpose of reducing breast - cancer mortality rates .
and at a time when the uk ’ s balance-of-payments deficit is over 5 % of gdp ( the second largest in the oecd ) , the financial sector ’ s 3 % -of-gdp trade surplus has been essential to prevent an external blow out .
the most contentious point here is whether the british economy is held back in some way by red tape imposed by brussels or by european treaty obligations .
all of which leads one to ask : what can brexit ’ s proponents possibly be thinking ?
the bank -market ratio – the size of the banking sector relative to the size of equity and bond markets – roughly doubled in the uk and germany in little more than a decade , while the ratio remained stable in the us , and at a much lower level .
likewise , uk citizens working across the eu should be granted the right to remain where they are .
in response , many politicians pay lip service to europe while emphasizing purely national solutions .
but many others , confronted with his steady stream of insul ts directed at lat inos , muslims , and women , seem to have w alled off their consci ences .
a lot will depend on how the world re acts and how the uk government manages to re constitute itself .
the exit process would generate prolonged uncertainty . officially , it is meant to take two years .
with the eu accounting for half of british trade turnover , the impact on exporters could be devastating ( despite a more competitive exchange rate ) .
in addressing these issues , policymakers around the world would do well to heed the lessons of the uk ’ s brexit experience .
and yet , while many might deny it , an increase in the supply of low-skill labor leads – so long as there are normal down ward- sl oping demand cur ves – to lower equilibrium wages .
a large part of the eu ’ s task is to prepare this legislation .
first , the “ brexit ” referendum is part of a global phenomenon : populist revolts against established political parties , predominantly by older , poorer , or less- educated voters angry enough to tear down existing institutions and defy “ establishment ” politicians and economic experts .
the final consequence of brexit is that the uk would lose its free-trade arrangements with third countries under the many trade agreements that the eu has signed since 2000 .
but it should not lead the rest of europe to favor brexit .
some britons ( perhaps even a majority ) , and many other eu citizens , still want future generations to think of themselves as europeans ( albeit with a proud british , german , or spanish origin ) , and are prepared to take another shot at reforming europe ’ s governance structures . and they are right to think that the world would be a far better place with a united , democratic europe as a major force for both stability and change .
this will leave non- euro countries such as denmark , poland , and sweden forming an outer ring of economic cooperation outside the eurozone .
that would make it far too easy to avoid regulations , such as rules of origin , with a non-eu country exporting goods to ireland for onward ship ment to the uk , or vice versa .
to help the may government stave off disaster for british manufacturing , the european commission has gr ac iously agreed to a 2 1- month “ implementation period ” that will follow the uk ’ s official exit on march 29 , 2019 .
let ’ s assume that britain ’ s ultimate aim is to create completely new global trading relationships , without any special eu trading privileges .
the eu ’ s leaders insist that the uk can not have free trade with the single market without allowing free movement of people .
at present , the country benefits even when parts of a product are manufactured elsewhere in europe , up to an agreed limit .
the decision to leave the eu will dominate british national life for the next decade , if not longer .
and yet 52 % of those who voted preferred a country where poles and roman ians would not be permitted to live , work , and compete for a position on the economic team .
finally , great britain ’ s decision about its relationship with the eu will not happen in a vacuum .
today , as europe faces difficult questions about its future , exemplified in the uk ’ s upcoming referendum on its european union membership , perhaps germany ’ s experience in the late nineteenth century can be brought us efully to bear .
but it now may be set to hold another highly consequential vote .
the question is whether “ brexit ” would be as glorious as its proponents like to imagine .
but trump has also pledged to put “ america first ” in all deals it makes and actions it takes , particularly regarding trade .
just over half of uk voters chose “ brexit , ” a result that has cast a long shadow over their country ’ s political system and economic prospects .
they are just not the thing .
china , for its part , is attempting a difficult economic rebalancing , from an export-led to a consumption- based growth model .
yet talk has rarely translated into action , despite the record-low interest rates of the past eight years .
po z nan – the current economic crisis cast a p all over climate change talks held this month in poland . while negotiators hoped for concrete progress towards an international climate agreement , the world ’ s two largest polluters were distracted – the us with preventing a collapse of the financial system in the midst of a presidential transition , china with a slowdown in domestic investment and weakening foreign demand for its manufactured goods .
they devised an electoral system whereby poles would not vote for candidates of their choice , but would cross out those they did not want – which is to say , each and every communist .
host regulators are increasingly nervous about banks that operate in their jurisdictions through branches of their corporate parent , without local capital or a local board of directors .
in a recent poll of british economists by the centr e for macroeconomics , two-thirds agreed that austerity had harmed the uk economy .
speeches , particularly when delivered by leaders of great nations , can be useful , irrelevant , or dangerous .
it will need to convince labour politicians that collaboration with brexit is electoral suicide , and persuade pro- eu tory rebels that a rebellion would not be futile .
indeed , continuity is the one election outcome that can almost certainly be excluded .
sadly , we will probably get both .
in addition to accepting free movement of people , eea members must follow eu commercial rules and accept decisions by the european court of justice , without any formal role in making these rules and decisions .
in this scenario , budget cuts create room for interest rates to fall .
it is not just that tough measures will be required to rein in public spending for years to come . more worrying is that many voters seem to be in denial about that fact .
the british perceive themselves as doing rather well , whereas europe is doing badly .
more important , cameron has said almost nothing about either europe or immigration ; and , though mil ib and ’ s clearly stated pro- eu stance has ende ared his candidacy to many business leaders , he , too , has played down the issue .
but before i place that bet , i will consider what the book ies have to say .
the all erg y to industrial policy is particularly acute among those who equ ate it with subsidies and tax breaks .
they are destro yers , not creators .
the non- euro group – including britain , denmark , sweden , poland , and some other eastern european countries – would continue to elect representatives to the european parliament and participate fully in eu institutions . meanwhile , the euro group would pursue far greater fiscal integration , in addition to their current cooperation .
consider this simple fact : tri pling mobile internet access over the next 15 years could make the developing world $ 22 trillion richer .
after all , they are seas oned innovators , as exemplified by google ’ s collaboration with vo d af one in new zealand and tel ef ó nic a in chile to deliver broadband to rural areas through atmospheric ballo ons .
bel lev ue , washington – when business leaders get together to talk about innov ating their industries , they typically focus on initiatives like improving government funding for basic research , or building technology hubs and incub ators .
even china , which arguably seeks to curtail us leadership in some domains , has no choice but to cooperate with the us and its allies on many foreign-policy issues .
the how ls of co yo tes and bu gling of el k ran g out at night .
it may still be in power , but its stock is falling fast , as david cameron , europe ’ s social democrats , hillary clinton , the european commission , and even greece ’ s post- capit ulation syriza government can attest .
if we continue with business as usual , we will end up destroying a vast amount of marine life , severely damaging the food chains on which we rely .
the countries that adopted the euro had poor labor-market institutions , bloated pension systems , high taxes on labor income , and inefficient service sectors in the late 1990 ’ s , and they still do now .
ten days later , he addressed a mam mo th public meeting at the city ’ s min ar- e- pakistan grounds , where , a year earlier , the cr ic ke ter- tur ne d- politician im ran khan had launched what he not very appropriately termed a political tsunami .
yet on that same day , the headlines in chinese papers were bl asting the philippines for its historic claim to ownership of the spr atly islands .
zurich – the world is being battered by technological disruption , as innovations such as big data analytics , artificial intelligence ( ai ) , robotics , the internet of things , blockchain , 3d printing , and virtual reality change how societies and economies work .
the us and india should expand cooperation on other multilateral issues as well .
but , addressing the world economic forum in davos , he squandered it , sticking to pl ati tudes about the need for governments in the region to listen to their citizens and provide young people with “ jobs and hope . ”
and , although turkmen bas hi died in december , his successor , g urban gu ly ber dy mu kham me do v , has continued to im prison dissidents , stifle freedom of expression , and sco ff at democracy , as february ’ s rigged elections demonstrate .
indeed , they have announced their intentions to move forward with conducting a national referendum scheduled for satur day to approve a new constitution , which they hope will entren ch their power for decades to come .
only then can they be assured access to the resources essential for treatment options .
while there is no scientific way to link a particular hurricane such as katrina to the long-term trend – in the sense that katrina might have been bad luck rather than a sign of man made climate change – the energy of hurricanes throughout the world has been rising markedly .
but the supreme court 's rulings affir m the fundamental principle that even grave dangers do not warrant the sort of blanket defer ence to which the bush administration believes it is entitled whenever it ut ters the words `` war '' and `` terrorism . ''
hardliners in israel naturally regret the end of the bush administration , for they know that , even if president barack obama does not dramatically change us policy toward israel once he assumes power , he will not repeat bush ’ s unconditional support .
but us politicians are blaming china and other countries for “ unfair trade , ” even threatening them with sanctions .
a war that can not be ended is sometimes worse than a war that is lost .
bush ’ s old new plan for iraq
the initi ators of the 2002 arab peace initiative likewise understood that a strictly bilateral approach might be inadequate , and instead called to regi on alize the solution to the conflict .
or why goldman sachs wishes its bankers would not aid and ab et massive corruption .
although superfic ially impressive , this surge obs cures several key issues .
above all , we must develop new business models that allow society to better harness the know-how , creativity , and drive of private enterprises to help improve public health .
advertis ements directly embedded in the show would reach five million additional – illegal – viewers , in effect doubling their audience .
in mid- august , i had the t emer ity to predict that risks had come home to ro ost , and that a large us investment bank might soon fail or be forced into a highly distressed merger .
the outcome of any such experiment is impossible to foresee , because other countries ’ experience can never be a perfect guide to a new system – the situation is never exactly the same in a different environment .
nor is calderón finding it easy to negotiate with the pri , failing to build a coalition government , which he has repeatedly proclaimed as the solution to the gridlock that has cur sed mexico since 1997 .
it is time to take the long view seriously , because we have tried the short view , and it has not worked .
making sense of these asymmetr ies is difficult .
states certainly have the legal authority to adopt policies that are at odds with federal policy .
consequently , these reserves provided the fuel for economic populism .
at the same time , the movement faces new questions about its ability to take advantage of the diplomatic opportunities that it has gained .
reve al ingly , the fund , not the european union , has taken the lead in negotiating emergency assistance packages for hungary and latvia .
or should the options be no brexit versus no deal ?
given the difficulty of regaining lost sovereignty and credibility , central banks must keep helicopter drops as a last resort .
but it was not until i began working in rwanda in 2011 that i fully gras ped the power of the tools at my disposal , by witnessing the impact of their absence .
the growth of china ’ s consumer price index ( cpi ) , though still positive , has also been falling steadily , from 6.5 % in july 2011 to 1.2 % in may .
the last challenge can be stated as a question that is rarely posed : is china ’ s political system an obstacle to renminbi internationalization ?
chinese leaders have been extremely risk-averse in their for ays into international financial affairs , and , on the eve of a leadership transition ( expected to take place a year from now ) , no senior official da res to risk his political prospects by advocating bold and controversial action .
so is employing young men , educating young women , and addressing values of liberty and justice , which means amelior ating the sense of indi gn ity in the region that stems from issues like the israel-palestine conflict .
for too many of these countries , economic growth in the last two decades relied on a combination of two factors : a natural rebound from previous financial crises ( as in latin america ) or political conflicts and civil war ( as in africa ) , and high commodity prices . neither can be relied on for the productive transformation that developing countries need .
will it work ?
the coming summit between south korea , china , and japan on may 2 1- 22 in tokyo , for example , will focus on nuclear safety and prepare a regime for closer regional cooperation .
its membership remains restricted to oecd countries , even though surging demand from non- member countries like china and india is rapidly undermining the iea ’ s ability to speak for , and coordinate responses among , oil importers as a group .
public finances would be consolidated only by growth , not by austerity .
when france first made its plans known in january , many dismissed the idea as little more than a diplomatic stun t .
the abduction of an israeli soldier in the gaza strip , as well as the abduction and subsequent murder of an 18 -year old israeli civilian in the west bank , have brought to the fore that question , which has ha unted israeli-palestinian relations since hamas won parliamentary elections in january .
even if hezbollah can adjust to the arab spring , it fears the winter with israel that might follow .
it would also have to accept a ceiling on how much uranium it could possess or enrich at lower levels .
vien na – europe ’ s current financial squeeze def ies easy solutions .
the world spends nearly $ 7 trillion a year on energy and its infrastructure ; yet our current research and development efforts are not up to meeting the challenge of climate change .
the key operating components of apple ’ s i po d were invented by the hy der abad company port al player , while the i po d itself are manufactured in china .
but if other european countries accept this preference , and europe continues along its unbalanced integration path , there will be no leverage to convince france to support political union .
luxembourg
0.8
p projected
- 3.4
- 1.7
to succeed , he needs to demonstrate respect for reasonable opposing view points and tone down his more extreme positions to broaden his popular support .
when the second approach is taken , it tends to be the richer countries , like denmark and switzerland , that come out on top .
indeed , one of the more striking features of the tsunami disaster was that it caught some of the most glam orous vacation resor ts completely unprepared .
in 2001 , south africa introduced a “ free basic water policy , ” according to which all households , regardless of size or income , receive six kil ol it ers ( 1, 5 85 gall ons ) of water per month at no cost .
maybe capitalism works better when skeptics restrain its excesses than when true believers are writing , interpre ting , judging , and executing the rules of the game .
melbourne – is the global financial crisis an opportunity to forge a new form of capitalism based on sound values ?
to boost the value of their shares , these shareholders backed the drive to reduce the global volume of the payroll and the number of workers that companies employ .
capitals of capital
perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring would cause a financial meltdown was always minimal , and qu ies cent markets were to be expected .
the world ’ s largest asset manager , black rock , is launching a fossil- fuel- free index , and ax a , one of the world 's largest insurance companies , has pledged to div est from coal .
measures such as carbon taxes and fees , emissions- trading programs and other pricing mechanisms , and removal of inefficient subsidies can give businesses and households the certainty and predictability they need to make long-term investments in climate- smart development .
creative destruction at work
of course , the reforms asked of ukraine would have been difficult , but no more difficult than what had been asked of other ex- communist countries that saw their future in and with europe .
ultimately , it became the chaotic but revolutionary world- changer that we know today ( “ a gift from god , ” as pope francis recently put it ) .
its future is bound up with that of the world economy .
price stability has not put profit margins under pressure .
but public encouragement of home ownership also weakens labor mobility .
the classic solution is import controls . but other measures that are less damaging to trade rules and international am ity are available .
rather , it is a means to help advance financial inclusion , security , and prosperity .
if one party exhib its cooperative behavior , its rival may feel forced to reciproc ate , leading to a spiral of cooperation instead of retaliation , and of trust instead of suspicion .
catalonia ’ s bid for independence , as pu ig demon t probably knows , lacks the compelling revolutionary é lan that has characterized struggling national movements throughout history .
similarly , broadening the range of available savings instruments could raise household disposable income and increase consumption .
there is plenty of blame to go around for these failures . puerto rico and the us government each bear responsibility .
if this turns out to be the beginning of a limited sino- indian rapprochement , and if other rivals in the region follow suit , then the bri could end up being a landmark policy indeed .
it is a party with no coherent program , but rather a comp en di um of popular and nationalist slogans .
technical assistance , capacity building , and support for privatization – of banks , in particular – further smoo th ed the way .
munich – around the world , central banks ' balance sheets are becoming an increasingly serious concern – most notably for monetary policymakers themselves .
finally , and perhaps least appreciated , is the fact that central-bank policy pronouncements are almost unique in having clear and predictable effects on financial markets , at least in the very short run ( which can be a day or less ) .
again and again , he has repeated that , so long as inflationary pressure remains contained , his main concern is the high level of us unemployment .
the same is true of unconventional interventions in markets for corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities .
central banking defl ow ered
in particular , the choice of a spanish vice president ( which in gu in dos ’ s case represents a break with the tradition – intended to protect central-bank independence – of not appointing politicians ) suggests that the next president will come from the northern eurozone .
and they really need to stop saying things that are un true – for example , that central banks ’ policy arsenal is not just exhaus tible , but also nearly exhausted .
such impa ir ment is global in scope .
millions of un ban ked people would have access to a near- free , efficient payment system through their cell phones .
a good place to start would be to lead the fight for internet freedom .
central europe has found itself in a completely new situation . crisis management measures undertaken in the western world are practically cutting our countries off from the eu market .
the tragedy is that these deaths are almost entirely preventable .
it will permanently change the continent ’ s economic geography and defining narrative .
many are mal nourished or hungry .
there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sle eping , not someone who is pretending to be as le ep . ”
as world bank president jim y ong kim has put it , climate change is a big problem with small solutions .
therefore , all countries , both developed and developing , need to do their part , with rich countries helping poor countries cover the financial costs of adjustment .
similarly , success is often used to prove – after the fact – that a modern political leader has charisma . it is much harder to use charisma to predict who will be a successful leader .
it may be fashionable to bel it tle the “ lessons of munich , ” when ne ville cham ber l ain and é dou ard dal ad ier appe ased hitler , def err ing to his claims on czechoslovakia . but if the west acquies ces to crimea ’ s annexation – the second time russian president vladimir putin has stolen territory from a sovereign state , following russia ’ s seizure of georgia ’ s abkhazia and south ossetia regions in 2008 – today ’ s democratic leaders will surely regret their inaction .
people not just in france , but around the world , want to show their solidarity with the victims and support the fundamental principle of free speech .
london citizens , a network of local civic institutions , organized jewish assistance programs for somali muslims , including after- school events at h end on school and ed en school .
chávez has participated directly in four venezuelan elections : in 1998 , when he was elected for the first time ; in 2004 , when the opposition forced a recall vote ; in 2006 , when he was re-elected ; and now , as he recovers from cancer and the country is in the midst of a huge public- safety crisis that has made car ac as one of the most dangerous cities in the world .
all of these countries are also determined to restore their output to previous peak levels and should be able to pump more oil than they did in the 1970s and 1980s by exploiting new production technologies pioneered in the us .
symptoms of stress are rampant , and many residents of affected areas firmly believe themselves to be condemned by radiation to ill health and early death .
the lesson of the iraq war should not be that all armed interventions in the middle east or elsewhere are to be avoided , but rather that they must only be undertaken when they are the best available strategy and when the results are likely to justify the costs .
other efforts include appeals by celebr ities like the che f jam ie ol iver and attempts to use peer- based learning , such as the s es ame stre et- inspired platform kick in ’ nutrition ( full disclosure : the cre ator is my wife ) .
do children cause global warming ?
that was a turning point in world history ; we have now arrived at another one .
we have set the goal of growing at an average of 6 % annually , in order to attain , by 2018 , the per capita gdp now enjoyed by european countries such as portugal and the czech republic .
the election that year will therefore be an important one to watch .
moreover , the legally mandated savings rate is only 10 % of the monthly wage , and men and women can retire at 65 and 60 , respectively – figures that are much lower than the oecd average .
the two most likely scenarios , then , are government continuity or predictable change ( the right has been expected to capture the presidency for years ) .
we must lead the world , by de ed and by example . ”
but democratic systems have built-in stabilizing mechanisms that enable them to right themselves without resorting to violence or repression .
the massive injection of liquidity into china ’ s economy has contributed to rising debt , especially among local governments and firms , while fueling massive real-estate bubbles , and resulting in significant excess capacity .
“ abenomics ” in japan has yet to yield results , and the european central bank is following in the footsteps of america and japan , pursuing quantitative easing in an effort to shore up demand .
moreover , chinese companies are beginning to autom ate , substitu ting capital for labor , and are producing more sophisticated goods , following the path bl a zed by japan , korea , and other asian countries in the “ flying ge ese ” formation .
we should evaluate the aiib by how it chooses and fosters projects , not just by how much financing it provides .
and , ironically , one place to look for inspiration is china .
china and a new balance of power
however , in terms of non- income indicators of poverty – for example , child mortality , malnutrition , and school dro p outs – india ’ s performance has been dismal ( in some respects worse even than in sub-saharan africa ) .
for both camps , only great-power politics matters for china ’ s national security , and if diplomacy can not influence the balance of power , there is little reason to engage with an issue .
i find it intrig uing to go back almost 200 years and consider britain ’ s political economy when the first industrial revolution was gathering steam .
that suits chinese technology firms just fine .
india debated this question 40 years ago , when then- prime minister ind ira gandhi declared a state of emergency .
the final option is to imagine that the bad - loan problem will solve itself .
by addressing these weaknesses , china ’ s belt and road investments can lead to a substantial increase in particip ant countries ’ and china ’ s own trade volumes , benefiting firms and workers substantially .
a more difficult question is whether the us can live up to its part .
indeed , art is the last great unregulated investment opportunity .
seoul – china spent much of 2014 seeking to revive a concept that japan proclaimed seven decades ago , when it was an imperial power seeking to impose its will on the region : “ asia for the asians . ”
the chinese auto industry is capable of building 40 million cars per year for a market that currently consumes 26 million .
yet the billions of dollars china is spending on its charm offensive have had only a limited return .
despite early signs of trouble – which , together with the soviet union ’ s experience , should give the cpc pause – china seems to be determined to push ahead with the bri , which the country ’ s leaders have established as a pillar of their new “ grand strategy . ”
of course , if chinese policymakers could have predicted what has now happened in the world economy , they might have been less stringent in trying to rein in growth .
as a result , soes , which have long specialized in single markets or products , have now begun to recognize that they need to re- tool to compete both in china and in global markets .
but , as china ’ s economy continues to modernize , much work remains to be done .
though china ’ s high national savings rate means that it does not have to borrow liquidity from abroad or print large amounts of money , the risks it faces should not be underestimated .
though exports have declined considerably from their pre-crisis peak of 35 % of gdp , they continue to account for about 24 % , leaving china exposed to the global growth cycle – especially to markets in the developed world , where demand is exceptionally weak .
it previously brus hed aside regional concerns about the alter ation of natural- flow patterns to push ahead with the x ay ab uri and don sa hong dam projects .
within china , a second displacement occurred : the government implemented a ¥ 4 trillion ( $ 6 80 billion ) stimulus package in november 2008 to offset weak demand in its major export markets .
over the years , china has worked to transform its closed , planned economy into a more open , market-based system .
in addition to exporting its comparative advantages , china also deplo ys “ patient capital , ” which has a maturity of ten years or more .
china ’ s dangerous digital agenda
as in a game of go , china ’ s leaders need to move the country ’ s pieces – that is to say , effect change in the soes ’ business models – in the right place , at the right time , and in a coordinated fashion .
beyond an awareness of the short-term risks of competitive devaluation lies the chinese government ’ s serious commitment to its longer-term goal of shifting the country ’ s growth model from one based on investment and exports to one driven by domestic consumption .
that is why the real test of china ’ s administrative reforms is whether , through improved bankruptcy mechanisms and regulations that block fraud and market manipulation , they allow – and even facilitate – the effective functioning of market forces .
originally conceived by former premier zhu r ong ji – one of modern china ’ s most strateg y- minded reformers – the cdf quickly became a high-level platform for engagement between senior chinese policymakers and an international lin eup of academics , foreign officials , and business leaders .
social returns from such investments far exceed the costs of capital .
the 1 1.3 % year- on- year gain in exports recorded in june stands in sharp contrast with earlier years , which were adversely affected by a weaker post-crisis global recovery .
succumb ing to the temptation of massive monetary and fiscal stimulus , such as that pursued in the wake of the global economic crisis , would not only fail to boost growth in a sustainable way ; it would actually undermine growth and stability in the medium to long term .
but it left in its wake some serious problems for the chinese economy .
moreover , the very weak performance of state-owned enterprises , which continue to play a large role in heavy industry and in some service sectors , represents a powerful brake on growth .
some experiments have had less clear results , making , say , a positive contribution to gdp growth , but also contributing to problems like excess industrial capacity , pollution , corruption , and the creation of ghost towns .
my recommendation for western commentators , then , is to focus on how the chinese economy evolves in the meantime .
now that the government is working to reach the most remote people – those without access to roads , electricity , or clean water – the cost exceeds $ 200 per year .
gaining access to the advanced technologies and management expertise of european firms is another major enti cement .
provided other countries do not over react , trump ’ s protectionism need not be as costly as many accounts make it sound .
and the growth of special economic zones ( sez s ) in the 1990s turned china decisively toward integration with the world economy .
at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’ s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to keep up the reform momentum .
early this year , the state council , china ’ s cabinet , made lowering funding costs for businesses , especially small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority .
it should be noted that china has been able to circumvent the mund ell - flem ing model only when the renminbi is subject to upward pressure .
avoiding these four traps will be extremely difficult .
for china ’ s sake , and that of its neighbors , one hopes they stick to the free-market plan .
an authoritarian regime has no such automatic adjustment mechanism .
of course , with turkey ’ s term at the g-20 ’ s helm having barely begun , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities .
many fear that this is only the beginning of a long conflict that could include weapons – and casualties – far outside the realm of trade .
perhaps more important , with the country still importing large volumes of commodities and the rest of developing asia set to generate a new surge in commodity demand , the prospects for a commodity- price rebound look brighter .
more generally , some development experts have raised concerns about whether the aiib can operate according to international standards of governance and transparency , enforce safeguards , refuse to work with incompetent or corrupt governments , and follow effective procedures .
now , 125 years later , the rankings have reversed again , following decades of rapid economic development in china .
the sun sh ines only during the day , and even then , cloud cover disrup ts the solar energy reaching photo volta ic panels .
abroad , china ’ s rise has caused admiration , envy , suspicion , and even outright hostility in some corners .
first , as plummeting stock prices caused the equity in investors ’ accounts to fall below the maintenance margin , brokers began issuing margin calls , forcing investors to off load more assets to come up with the needed cash .
the share of energy investment going into renewable electric generation has increased steadily , reaching 50 % in 2011 , up from 32 % just four years before .
in south korea , growth fell to 4.8 % .
pollution remains a grave challenge as well .
according to the world bank , only 13 of 101 countries classified as middle income in 1960 had reached high-income status in 2008 .
but that does not make it a sustainable model .
slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting to achieve transformation through austerity is not the way forward .
this development creates new opportunities for other developing countries to reap the trade benefits of inser ting themselves into the international division of labor .
finally , and most important , the country is suffering from inadequate progress on market- ori ent ated reform .
the longer the standoff lasts , the more likely it is to sul ly xi ’ s carefully cultivated image as a powerful leader , and that of china as asia ’ s hegemon , which would undermine popular support for the regime at home and severely weaken china ’ s influence over its neighbors .
the transition to a carbon- based economy liberated economies from age-old mal thu sian constraints .
what they do should interest everyone – especially us policymakers .
they can not be easily subver ted by an authoritarian regime , no matter how many cultural exchanges or language institutes it builds .
i argue in my book mass flourishing that the right model is the good economy , which is an economy that offers the good life .
so companies are developing uniquely chinese approaches to such innovation .
yet this admir able country now faces an existential challenge .
it is true that china ’ s aid model differs from the west ’ s .
and that means that westerners who have spent considerable time in china and consider themselves seas oned “ china hands ” need to ask why they have gotten it so wrong .
but china will most likely move toward an open , largely rules-based multilateral framework .
in fact , one of the most b aff ling features of china ’ s economic rise is that , even amid double-digit gdp growth , employment grew at a meas ly 1.8 % average annual rate from 1978 to 2004 .
china does not want a divided asia or fragmented regional blocs built along geopolitical f issu res , so it is cultivating international com ity through shared interests .
xi ’ s reforms , like deng ’ s , reflect the absence of alternatives .
with the risks of inflation and asset bubbles being mitigated by lower oil prices and excess capacity , now is a good time to initiate this policy shift .
it seems that the lesson from the fall of soviet leader nikita khrushchev in 1964 was not lost on xi .
in july 2017 , the pboc decided to make an additional change to the r ate- setting rule to correct for “ big market swings ” and “ irrational herd behavior . ”
are they right to worry ?
and president xi jinping ’ s crackdown on corruption has had the side effect of delaying decision-making and inhib iting new projects .
any fiscal stimulus now should focus on improving public services , encouraging consumption , and increasing household income .
add to that the recent surge in fast-growing , innovative companies – such as huawei , alibaba , and w anda – and china is well placed to implement xi ’ s ambitious vision .
given that the project will entail significant chinese investment affecting some 50 countries , its appeal in the developing world is not difficult to fa th om .
in 1947 , however , following president franklin d. roosevelt ’ s election to four terms in office , congress enacted the twenty- second amendment to the us constitution ; since its ratification in 1951 , us presidents have been limited to two four-year terms .
the chinese armed forces are now well equipped , but lack comparable battlefield experience .
the good news is that such infrastructure can be built in an efficient and cost-effective manner .
beyond physical and emotional trauma , viol ators of the one-child policy – who are most often among the country ’ s poorest – face serious economic penalties .
this process has been accelerated by a confl u ence of defen se- industry reforms , comprehensive military upgrading , and integration of innovative operational concepts .
and while trump ’ s communication style remains striking , particularly in comparison to xi ’ s , it becomes far less appealing when one is the target of his blunt comments on tou ch y topics .
now , however , that operating environment has changed ; in fact , the foundations of the post-cold war order were fra ying long before trump arrived on the scene .
the recent increase in demand for housing may reflect households ’ desire to hedge their high savings against inflation or , more fundamentally , the sense that they must secure housing urgently , given limited supply .
from the perspective of structural adjustment , china ’ s declining dependence on fixed- asset investment should be hailed as an achievement .
if china does not reduce that share and cut its greenhouse-gas emissions , keeping global warming in check will prove impossible .
to change this , the government needs to promote market-based credit allocation .
according to beyond the super cycle : how technology is reshaping resources , a new report from the mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) , these trends are slowing the growth of primary energy demand .
by process of elimination , the only option that remains is tightening capital controls .
its recovery has outpaced that of other advanced economies ; job creation has been impressive ; and the dollar has been strong .
designated clearing banks have not exactly been flooded with business .
investment should be re ined in by imposing greater financial discipline on way ward public enterprises , while the social safety net should be strengthened , so that households would not have to save so much to meet the costs of having children and growing old .
china offers a secure and expanding market for its energy exports .
china ’ s state- run xin hua news agency recently reported on a government investigation into a string of forced steril izations and abortions in the village of lin yi , sh and ong province .
a vital security zone to china ’ s west , afghanistan is also an important corridor through which it can secure its interests in pakistan ( a traditional ally in china ’ s competition with india ) , and ensure its access to vital natural resources in the region .
today , china is the second biggest destination for ang ol an oil ( the us , which jumped on the band w agon after sanctions were lifted , is the largest ) .
at the summit ’ s end , vietnam , malaysia , indonesia , brun ei and singapore joined with aquino in demanding that hun sen ’ s statement be am ended .
china ’ s leaders now must identify the specific areas in which to build anti fragility , and approach the required reforms prudently .
saudi arabia has also executed a series of high-profile , politically motivated kidn appings .
china ’ s foreign-exchange reserves , indeed , are facing a triple wh am my : a decline in the us dollar ’ s purchasing power , a fall in the prices of us government securities , and possible inflation in the longer run .
as a result , china will invest even more under the current five-year plan .
the expression of this desire is especially important now that the world is gripped by a terrifying economic crisis .
so , while the current crisis in burma is not of china ’ s making , any peaceful settlement may be possible only if china acts to support it .
according to internet world stat s , the number of internet users in china has more than tripled since 2006 , soaring to 4 85 million in mid- 2011 – more than three times that in 2006 .
due to the lack of public oversight on government budge ting , china ’ s political system is especially biased to favor big physical projects , and , through taxation and state ownership , the government maintains almost full control over much national income and wealth , maximizing the impact of this bias .
orwell ’ s big brother would not have been am used by this remark .
cyber intru sion in peace time allows the prow ler to read the content and understand the relative importance of different computer networks so that it knows what to dis able in a conflict situation .
and it has already had some victories .
china ’ s evolving web
one formerly state- run enterprise was being operated under a 2001 lease spec ifying that no workers could be laid off for the next ten years .
despite its withdrawal from financing the us government , china remains the world ’ s largest net capital exporter , a position that it has held since 200 6. in 2007 and 2008 , china exported on average about $ 400 billion of capital annually .
and the government will spend more on low-income housing and to expand health-care services .
for a decade , the world has wondered when china ’ s leaders will recognize the staggering environmental crisis confronting their country .
indeed , the situation is much like that of the 1997 asian financial crisis .
just as china ’ s economic boom benefited commodity- dependent economies , primarily in the developing world , its slowdown is reflected in these economies ’ declining growth rates .
china ’ s government is extremely sensitive to such attacks .
indeed , by working to establish its dominance along major trade ar teries , while instig ating territorial and maritime disputes with several neighbors , china is attempting to re draw asia 's geopolitical map .
many asians still remember japanese efforts before and during world war ii to create a “ greater east asia co- prosperity sphere ” – a self-sufficient bloc of countries , under japan ’ s leadership – through conquest .
for example , the beijing office of china ’ s state environmental protection administration has less than 300 employees , whereas the united states environmental protection administration has over 17 ,000 .
at the same time , while the wolfowitz scandal unfolded , china was playing host to the africa development bank ( ad b ) , which held its board meeting in shanghai .
the chinese government has neither censor ed nor refu ted hu ’ s dread ful findings .
america ’ s policy toward communist china has tra vers ed three stages .
that would help to ensure that three decades of legal reform is more bone and sin e w than running water .
that strategy supported technology transfer , helping to close the knowledge gap and rapidly improving the quality of manufactured goods .
all three challenges are interconnected , and mistakes by any of the parties could plunge the global economy into another recession .
but extreme deception in framing can be viewed as coercive ; though not violent , it prevents meaningful choice .
china ’ s “ peaceful ” rise ?
china , by contrast , has established strong institutional capacity , a multi- ti ered federal structure , a tradition of civilian leadership turnover every ten years , and a well- o iled , sophisticated security apparatus that has kept pace with technological advances .
new york – almost everyone in the world who watched the 2008 olympics in beijing was impressed by china ’ s preparations , the ac umen of the chinese in running such a complex and challenging event , and the rich harvest of medals – especially gold med al – that chinese athletes won .
whether xi ’ s appeal to india to “ settle the boundary framework quickly ” was an ex hor tation or a warning , other asian countries can no longer afford to ignore their own border disputes with china .
with such a clear vision of the future , the challenge will be implementation .
even we visiting foreigners – all du ti fully cl ad in blue mao suits and caps – were expected to attend regular political “ study sessions ” to pur ify our bourgeo is minds with pro le tarian tr acts written by the gang of four .
again , the fundamental cause of today ’ s global imbalance can be found in domestic structural problems on both sides . exchange rates will play only a secondary role in rebalancing .
indeed , with increased contact between taiwan and the mainland , ordinary chinese could begin to envy the modern democracy that the taiwanese people have built – and spread the idea of an open society to the chinese mainland .
beijing – at the opening of the annual session of china ’ s parliament , the national people ’ s congress ( n pc ) , premier wen jiabao announced that the government ’ s target for annual economic growth in 2012 was 7.5 % .
given this , the logical solution is not to dispose of the state ’ s asset holdings , but to diversify them over time .
but achieving faster , more resilient growth will require china to eliminate the biases , protections , and implicit guarantees favoring soes in the marketplace and in the financial system .
the current dam - building plans threaten the sal ween river ’ s grand c any on – a unesco world heritage site – and the pr ist ine , environmentally sensitive areas through which the bra h m ap u tra and the mekong flow .
that means india ’ s contribution to global gdp growth is likely to be just 0.6 percentage points this year – only half the 1. 2- percentage-point boost expected from china .
while the government has assembled considerable firepower to limit the unwinding of a spectacular bubble , the overhang of highly leveraged speculative demand is dis concer ting .
what chinese officials desire is a capitalist stock market without the possibility of large losses that can shake confidence in the ccp ’ s credibility and control .
china ’ s stock-market red her ring
while designing the master plan for the beijing games , spe er jr. , an ac claimed architect and town plann er , also sought , like his father , to create a fu tur istic global metropol is .
previously , the economic activities that are now flourishing weren ’ t categor ized as manufacturing industries at all , but as “ servic es . ” but services do not exist in a vacuum .
with the right investments , china can improve its economic structure , while helping to eliminate overcapacity .
how these funds are deployed will determine the shape of tomorrow ’ s economies and the state of the environment on which they depend .
the recent signal being sent from china ’ s leadership is that economic revival rests on decreased regard for the environment . this retreat also illustrates how little consensus there is among high-level government officials for making china green . the danger of the current crisis is not that china ’ s government is not doing something , but that what it is doing undermines recent hope that china could help to save itself by saving the environment .
both hope that showing that china and taiwan can get along without too much trouble will bring electoral benefits for the nationalists .
will it change its often- aggressive behavior in the region , or will it continue to view the south china sea mainly in terms of us-china competition ?
the key is to lower interest rates enough to mitigate the financial risks of high leverage and enable the restructuring of local-government debts .
the bulk of numerous fortune 500 companies ’ annual sales come from china nowadays – and they already feel increasingly unwelcome .
according to the 2009 urban household survey , a one-child household in china spends an average of 1 0.6 % of its total income on education , whereas a household with twins spends 17. 3 % .
nor should it issue harsh rebu kes to its allies when they do not follow suit , as it did when the united kingdom announced its intention to join the new china- led asian infrastructure investment bank .
why china ’ s cities will drive global growth
but their increase in shares need not come at the expense of the us .
optim izing decision-making in a dangerous world
the political expedi ence of the short-term monetary fix has triumph ed once again .
from mexican president en rique peña nieto ’ s conspicuous silence to french president fran co is hollande ’ s statement that it opens up a “ period of uncertainty ” to the kremlin ’ s barely conce aled g id d iness , trump has not been received internationally like past us presidents .
china will not use the trade cu dg el when it has more to lose , as illustrated by the current sino- indian troop standoff at the border where tibet , bhutan , and the indian state of si k kim meet .
the non- problem of chinese currency manipulation
since then , many of china ’ s inherent strengths have been s apped by all- too- frequent external shocks .
finally , the renminbi ’ s recent decline against the dollar was only 2.5 % , from cn¥ 6. 2 to cn¥ 6. 35 – far below the double-digit declines of the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound .
after all , china is now the world ’ s second-largest economy ( and , by some non- market measures , the largest ) .
tokyo – in the last week or so , stock markets around the world have been hit by an upsurge in volatility , with large price swings confronting traders in new york , tokyo , london , and beyond .
if kim ’ s bomb ast and nuclear threats lead to china- us bon ding over a joint north korea settlement , the entire world will be the safer for it .
the fact is that , with its “ peaceful rise ” giving way to an increasingly shar p- el b owed approach to its neighbors , china has broadened its “ core interests ” – which bro ok no compromise – and territorial claims , while showing a growing readiness to take risks to achieve its goals .
choosing mr. europe
for example , rather than nom inations from governments , which often are reluctant to support excellent candidates from opposition parties , an international nom inating committee could put forward names .
now we have to try to forget all of that .
london – on july 1 , 17 years ago , i was sa iling on britain ’ s royal y ach t away from hong kong where , at mid night the previous day , china assumed sovereignty under the terms of an international agreement with the united kingdom ( tab led at the united nations ) known as the joint declaration .
alas , that is no answer at all , though it may be a useful ri post e to those – like former us vice president dick cheney – who advocate a re play of the recent past .
while recovery gained momentum , particularly in some advanced economies , the world economy is not yet flying on all engines – and is likely to remain under powered next year as well .
neither mechanism forese es a situation whereby all countries simultaneously seek to upgrade their financial systems across a variety of sectors .
filling in death certi fic ates is not an exact science , and doctors focus on causes with which they are familiar .
and “ credit where credit is due ” is the ax ial principle around which the entire scholarly publication system revol ves .
“ twenty years from now , ” eman u el told fellow mayors in new york city , we will see “ an infl ec tion point where the nation-state is in decline , and the city- state à la singapore is driving the cultural and economic activity . ”
this has far-reaching costs .
in december , the white house agreed to a republican proposal to repeal a provision of dodd-frank that would have limited the risk-taking of the country ’ s largest banks ( in fact , the proposal ’ s language was drafted by citigroup ) .
we need not wait for the politicians .
rather than starting with the statehood question , perhaps it ’ s time to end with it .
but the impact of his mis rule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control .
but we can start with what exists , and by so doing create demand for the rest .
recently , however , concern has been expressed – from within the diamond trade – that the scope of the k im ber ley process is too limited , and that consumers have thus been l ul led into believing that there are no longer any ethical problems with diamonds . that is far from the truth .
similarly , britain ’ s tory government , which has espoused brexit ’ s populist aims , has recently announced another multi- bil lion- pound reduction in social security , education , and tax credits for the working poor .
gates himself is the first to acknowledge that the public perception is far from accurate .
failure to design dams to their ful lest potential , therefore , carries a significant cost .
of course , key energy decisions ( such as whether to deploy nuclear energy or to build a new transmission grid ) will require deep public participation , but planning and implementation should be free of excessive partisan politics and lobbying .
( there are , as always , technical issues to be resolved , concerning monitoring and measurement , but these can be overcome easily with modern technologies . )
but a clearinghouse is no panacea , and its limits , although easy to miss , are far-reaching .
in fact , there are actions that trump can take for other ends – from boosting the us economy to enhancing america ’ s global influence – that would also advance the climate agenda .
fifty years of climate di thering
a recent draft resolution on air pollution and health for the world health assembly ( the who ’ s governing body ) suggests that countries should “ underscore ” a link between air pollution and climate change .
most international water ways have such frameworks for dialogue , albeit at different stages of development and levels of achievement .
washington , dc – when world leaders convene in paris this week for the united nations climate change conference , their task will be to reach a global agreement on curbing greenhouse-gas emissions .
just last month , the carbon disclosure project revealed that the number of companies with plans to pursue internal carbon price mechanisms has grown to almost 1, 400 globally , up from 150 in 2014 .
though the new emphasis on this important topic is welcome , how to deliver the funding , technology , and knowledge that countries , communities , and ecosystems need to adjust to climate change requires further articul ation .
the reality is that confronting the interconnected challenges associated with conflict and climate change demands comprehensive solutions .
how utterly reckless of humanity to have rushed past the holoc ene boundary , ignoring – like a character in a horror movie – all of the obvious warning signs .
the g c m represents a once- in- a- generation opportunity to set in place an internation ally- agreed system for managing safe and orderly migration .
in the european union , electr ic ity- generating plants alone account for 44 % of all freshwater consumed each year ; in the united states , that figure is 41 % .
furthermore , because l ng is favored by the transport sector ( particularly fre ight and maritime shi pp ers ) for environmental reasons , the ability to use oil as a geopolitical weapon has disappeared .
and while geo engineering technologies remain mostly aspir ational , there are proven mitigation options that can and should be implemented vigorously .
the international community is in no way prepared for such a scenario .
one consequence , among many , is that livestock production now accounts for nearly 15 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions .
a comprehensive approach along these lines would help to make migration part of the solution to climate change , not just another of its harmful effects .
the un climate change conference in 2011 – initiated and hosted by south africa – produced an agreement to adopt a universal legal agreement on climate change as soon as possible , no later than this year .
avoiding such outcomes will require renewed support for multilateral treaties such as the 2015 paris climate agreement , which has been weakened by the withdrawal of the united states .
the political community , wrote arist o tle , should aim “ at the highest good , ” to be achieved by cultivating the virtues of the citizen ry .
so what should be done ?
we are at a turning point .
given soaring climate-related economic costs in europe and latin america , both sides have much to gain ( and save ) from a global regime that significantly reduces emissions and strengthens resilience to climate risks .
in most countries and regions , the paris agreement ’ s pledges , which already are insufficient to keep the increase in global temperatures below the 1.5°c threshold , are not being fulfilled .
it is crucial that this new climate finance be used to complement the ev en- larger investments in sustainable development that will be necessary over the next few decades .
otherwise , though , this report had a defin ite sense of dé j à v u .
all of this is not only possible , but also necessary , because the transition to a low-carbon , climate- resilient economy makes economic , social , and environmental sense .
this lack of scientific basis did not stop countless global- warming activists from citing the glac ier prediction at every opportunity .
rebalancing the global investment regime is only the first step toward a zero-carbon economy .
the plan certainly sounds reasonable .
polling shows that undec ided voters deeply distrust both candidates .
the aim must be to make the region more resilient to natural disasters as part of a broader framework for regional cooperation .
closing the education gender gap
most people understand that coal is a dirty business , one that countries like australia should abandon for their own economic wellbeing , as well as for the sake of the global climate .
he is right in one respect : waves of terrorism tend to be generational .
in the 1950 ’ s , a group of clinical scientists recognized that , because childhood cancer was a rare disease , no single medical center could study enough patients to make the necessary advances across the spectrum of pedi atric on c olog ic diseases .
this momentous shift reflects the decim ation of the farc following long years of struggle , the resilience of colombian society , and , perhaps most important , santos ’ s brilliant regional policy .
at the same time , one should not underestimate the economic dividend of peace , which economists in bo got á  have estimated could boost gdp growth by as much as one percentage point annually for a decade or more .
already , du que has refused to recognize key pillars of the deal , beginning with the farc ’ s status as a legitimate political party that can participate in democratic elections .
peace comes at a cost , and people often disagree about who should foot the bill .
would inter mitt ent therapy be as useful as long-term treatment ?
i think the next such revolution , likely sometime in the twenty-first century , will challenge the economic implications of the nation-state .
but governments continued to see their economic roles in restricted terms .
in order to look forward with confidence , you also have to look back – and understand what went wrong .
perhaps it is deflation .
this commodity- price roll er- coast er ride is probably not over yet .
most important , employees need role models .
the rust belt made trump president .
the ban treaty would prohibit so-called nuclear sharing arrangements , whereby allies of nuclear weapon states could store weapons on these states ’ territory .
no matter how well intentioned and gif ted , technocrats can not ensure proper policies and deliver optimal outcomes .
the key feature of these measures is that they are applied differently depending on whether an asset is over - or undervalued relative to the guidance range .
second , it is severely under funded .
this not only reduces the time they take to communicate ; it improves energy efficiency by a factor of as much as 5,000 – potentially providing computers with efficiency close to that of a biological brain .
what drives a person to move to a new and usually unknown country ?
in the us , for example , congress has passed a tax- reform package that may produce an additional incre ment in private investment , but will do little to reduce inequality , restore and re deploy human capital , improve infrastructure , or expand scientific and technological knowledge .
similarly , the european commission ’ s direc tor ate general for trade found that only 7 % of 15 3 eu companies refer to a du e- dilig ence policy for conflict minerals in their annual reports or on their web sites .
back in the political world , the answer is quite a lot .
simply condemning human-rights violations without applying meaningful sanctions will not change its behavior .
last august , fighting to the north of the provincial capital g om a fl ared up again , provoking a major humanitarian crisis that has no end in sight .
because the border tax adjustment does not change saving and investment , it wouldn ’ t change imports and exports . instead , the changes in taxes on imports and exports would lead to a rise in the value of the dollar that off sets the direct impact of the border tax changes .
the current federal government will certainly abide by these rules , which implies reducing the structural deficit to approximately € 10 billion by 2016 – a reduction of about € 7 billion a year .
as a tourist draw , seen at close quarters in its natural habitat , a man ta ray can be worth thousands of dollars ; dead on a s lab at the qu ay side , its fl esh and g ills fe tch a fraction of that .
now , the industry needs to enter the twenty-first century , so that it can meet increasing demand for new structures and address the world ’ s growing housing and infrastructure gaps .
for example , tax codes could be reformed to make the practice of journalism more affordable , while government or foundation funding could increase support for public media programming .
importantly and counter- intu itively , doing so serves their own core compet encies , rather than those of the industry that they seek to disrupt .
american researchers in bangladesh had shown that or t could reverse fatal de hydr ation in cholera patients , but its effectiveness outside hospitals had not yet been proven .
but there is plenty of precedent for an alienated and disenchan ted young man , brought up in the west ( abdul az e ez attended high school and college in ch att ano og a ) , to seek a cause worth fighting for – and to find it in the perceived humiliation of islam by america and the west .
this makes about as much sense as it would to attack china in the 1950 ’ s .
cas ual observers of today 's fre e whe eling offerings of sex , crime , drugs , violence , and ban al game shows on chinese tv might come away with the impression that most of the shack les have been removed from telev ised content .
likewise , patients with well- controlled ncds who show no symptoms and are doing well on medications may need only occasional visits to a health-care provider , while those with more complicated cases could benefit from closer medical monitoring and counsel ing .
to help limit yellow fever ’ s spread , international health regulations require that all travelers to the 34 countries where yellow fever is endemic present a vaccination certi fic ate .
but chinese regulations are sometimes pro mul g ated simply to blunt external criticism , and thus are seldom enforced , except when a case attracts international attention .
in short , the current urbanization trajectory is not sustainable .
as unorthodox as it may sound , it is likely that the world economy would benefit from somewhat higher interest rates .
people who are less pre judic ed toward jewish people will likely have more jewish friends , and this famili arity makes it easier to identify someone as jewish .
a modern keynesian government does not hesitate to increase spending in the face of a recession .
most aspiring republican presidential candidates are not only extreme , but also more reactionary than corbyn .
at the same time , however , middle eastern swfs have confronted new constraints on their international purchasing power , owing to fiscal austerity at home , induced by falling hydrocarbon prices .
cal pers ( the california public employees ’ retirement system ) , a $ 300 billion pension fund , has published its corporate governance principles , which include boar dro om diversity , fair labor practices , and environmental protection .
indeed , the inter mitt ent over- valuation of entire economic sectors – recall the do t- com bubble from a decade ago – indicates that financial markets are often excessively focused on the long term .
corrup ting the fight against corruption
in some societies and economic sectors , impunity is now so pervasive that it is viewed as inevitable .
islamabad – half of the planet can not access essential health services .
most governments in such circumstances cut items like infrastructure , because the costs go un seen for decades .
this is a clear sign that income inequality in the us has risen to levels that threaten not only the economy ’ s growth , but also the health of its democracy .
but citizens now doubt both these points .
foreign organizations , such as aid agencies or pharmaceutical companies , do have a role to play in boosting local innovation .
in this scenario , rather than stimulating domestic demand , they would forti fy their defenses , positioning themselves for a long and stor my winter for the global economy .
the war in iraq has been exceptionally bloody . for now , that is about all that statistics can safely tell us .
yet such pressure – stemming , at least partly , from social expectations and comparisons – is very real .
create growth- linked bonds
what is happening is both powerful and clear .
the best option for western governments is thus to pursue gradual change , propelled by a variety of adaptive instruments , which would reach a critical mass over time .
there are good reasons for that .
so intervention is needed to form alize the cds market and force appropriate collater alization , so that no government has to step in to rescue any counter party .
all told , the conclusion that we draw from a large body of research into the links between household debt , the housing market , and business cycles is that expan sions in credit supply , operating primarily through household demand , are an important driver of business cycles generally .
the difficulty of re possession ( where did the borrower park the car ? ) and sale ( the us ed- car market is still in its inf ancy ) meant that most of these bad loans had to be written off .
was bo a tr ipped up by bad luck or slop p iness ?
london – last year ’ s lib or scandal was a shock to the body politi c in london .
here , successive us governments have compounded south asia ’ s problems by pursuing only their own national interests , at an in calcul able cost to the natural , organic growth of the region ’ s countries .
a crisis of beliefs is important for three reasons . first , it offers a welcome re join der to those who argue that the past decade was an unavoidable result of the housing bubble in the united states .
the approach of the bush and obama administrations stands in stark contrast both to the policy followed by the british government , and to earlier examples of successful financial bailouts in the united states .
and , if modi fying a mosquito population is dangerous , there is no telling what could happen if we modify human cells – in particular , ger m cells – without doing our due dilig ence .
that was bad news for argentina , because brazil , its main trading partner , will now buy less and sell more , undermining argentina ’ s external position .
y am ’ s retirement presents an opportunity for hong kong ’ s government to redress a major issue of governance .
he believes that creativity has been stifled by a public philosophy described as corporatism , and that only through thorough reform of our private institutions , financial and others , can individu ality and dynamism be restored .
the regime is brut alizing the burmese people , and lying to the world about its actions .
now a new digital technology has arrived : crypto currency .
for example , the total supply of bit coins is fixed , as it would be – more or less – for a gol d- backed currency .
virtually all ( 99 % ) occur in low- and middle-income countries , but most research and funding focuses on high-tech care for the 1 % of deaths occurring in rich countries .
only with a new strategy based on economic diversification and investment in renewable energy can peru achieve stable , inclusive , long-term prosperity – and make a real contribution to mitigating climate change .
it is no coincidence , for example , that the law treats corporations as persons .
they will not do so any time soon , on any issue that may spring up , if it means confrontation with the al ba countries .
only those cells losing this remaining functional all el e of the brca 1 or brca 2 gene will become tumors .
yet the us treasury department and the us trade representative stead fa stly refuse to include any language prohibiting currency manipulation in the tpp , for five main reasons – none of which fits the facts .
for example , assuming that there is no increase in domestic us saving , pen alizing a low-cost producer like china for currency manipulation would most likely cause the chinese piece of america ’ s trade deficit to be real located to higher- cost producers .
it has recorded a deficit for all but one year since 1982 , the sole exception being 1991 , when foreign contributions to its military campaign in the persian gulf underpinned a min is cule surplus ( 0.0 5 % of gdp ) .
it is true that some macroeconomic mod el ers , including the congressional budget office , forec asted that going over the cliff would have caused a recession .
after all , the internet ’ s key feature is its non- territorial architecture .
in january 2008 , president george w. bush signed two presidential directives that called for establishing a comprehensive cyber- security plan , and his 2009 budget requested $ 6 billion to develop a system to protect national cyber security .
how can you retaliate when there is no return address ?
in the nineteenth century , the outcome of contests for mastery of europe depended primarily on whose army won ; today , it also depends on whose story wins .
but imposing major losses on cypriot banks ’ depositors violates the depos it- insurance guarantee that forms part of the proposed european banking union , while the imposition of capital controls further erodes the monetary union ’ s foundations .
when we visited cyprus late last year , we noticed how few women and young people were engaged in politics .
it reminds us of the clos eness , in spirit , between extreme neo- con s and communist ide al og ues .
any chance at structural renewal was smo thered in the cr ib .
y un nan is home to three great asian rivers : the mekong , the sal ween ( or n u ) , and the jin sh a .
in the cyber world , the eu is setting the global standards for privacy protection , which us and other multinational companies can not ignore .
in my new book , the curse of cash , i offer a plan that involves very gradually phasing out large notes , while leaving small notes ( $ 10 and below ) in circulation indefinitely .
the facile argument that greece has little to export is irrelevant here .
over the last three years ( 2011- 2013 ) , the us economy grew by about six percentage points more .
nearby member states , especially those whose languages are similar to russian and ukrainian , should be able to mobilize quickly the required technical expertise .
a firm could be eligible for compensation if it operated in the sectors covered by sanctions , and if the product in question had special characteristics that prevented sales from being re directed elsewhere .
the rejection of the eu seems more fundamental in parts of northern europe , where the elderly tend to vote for right-wing populist parties .
but the primary causes for domestic economic weakness in japan , the us , the united kingdom , and the eurozone are not global in origin .
freedom house ’ s global surveys show a steady increase from the 1970s in the share of countries that are “ free ” – a trend that the late harvard political scientist samu el hun t ington dubbed the “ third wave ” of democratization .
one thing that all of these high-growth episodes had in common was rapid industrialization .
it appears that it is now acceptable to talk about inequality in america as the central issue facing the country .
in fact , the successful economies ’ super l ative growth performance has been enabled by other countries ’ choice not to emulate them .
unfortunately , economists and other social scientists get virtually no training in how to choose among alternative models . neither is such an ap titude professi onally rewarded .
erdoğan and his advisers have now hit back .
but another , more pernicious , part of the answer may lie in the strategies to which political leaders resort in order to get elected .
economic planning based on simple extrapol ations of recent growth will exacerbate the discrepancy .
south korea – the seven th-largest trading country in the world , and one of the most prominent economic success stories of the last 50 years – is at risk of such a bleak future as a result , first and foremost , of demographics .
if palestine ’ s leaders truly want to end the cycle of violence in gaza , they must begin by resolving their own internal disagreements and present themselves as a cohesive , reliable , and committed negotiating party .
such thinking is inadequate and out mod ed .
economic engagement is more controversial .
what is true of book buying is also true for many other systems that are being dig itized , such as our cities and societies .
in the meantime , there is another question to be considered : how many europeans want britain to stay in the eu ?
indeed , the war against the arts and humanities in the us coincided with the emergence of an increasingly ignorant and passive population and a government that serves at the pleasure of corporate interests .
but , given intensifying doubts about the benefits of integration , even that solution would risk unraveling the eu .
even the coal industry adopted the efficiency line in its warsaw communiqué , released ahead of the un ’ s cop 19 summit last november .
consumer spending per capita is close to indian and chinese levels .
as general d oug las mac arthur told them in 1962 , those three words “ build your basic character .
as a result , in some areas , community- wide “ herd ” immunity levels for diseases like measles and per tus s is ( who oping cou gh ) have fallen below those necessary to keep them from spreading into the general population .
moreover , the international community created frameworks for justice to deal with the consequences of violence , a move that was scarcely imaginable during the cold war .
lon don / washington , dc – at this year ’ s world economic forum meeting in davos , switzerland , participants did not question the basic building blocks of growth in today ’ s global economy : free markets , good governance , and investment in human capital and infrastructure .
worse still , much of the money flowing into the banks to recapitalize them so that they could resume lending has been flowing out in the form of bonus payments and dividends .
there are two problems that can not be wished away .
we need targeted government- led sanctions against the us by civilized countries , including international divestment of capital .
benjamin franklin once said , “ in this world , nothing can be said to be certain , except death and taxes . ”
in low- lying bangladesh , one of the countries most vulnerable to climate change , the government supports a proposal to build two huge coal-fired power plants ad jac ent to the sund ar bans world heritage site .
twenty- five countries have it on the books , but have not executed anyone for decades .
america ’ s role as the world ’ s banker went unchallenged for the next 40 years ago , until president richard nixon decou pled the dollar from gold .
but cow en ’ s actions were sympt omatic of a broader failure : the fundamental link between the liability of citizens and taxpayers and the responsibilities of government had been broken .
as the price of oil collapsed in 2014 , the government , having lost access to capital markets because of its profligacy , chose to continue servicing its bon ded debt and default on its obligations to importers and most non-financial creditors .
furthermore , the recent strengthening of creditor rights and the growth of bond financing has made sovereign-debt restructuring enormously complex and open to abuse by highly speculative hold out investors , including so-called vul ture funds .
that risk would be exacerbated by the eruption of a major defaul t- related crisis within the eurozone , which might not be contained and , through a leh man- like domin o sequence , could jeopardize the entire edi f ice .
think now of an 8- cy lin der engine running not on five cy lin ders , but on two or three at best .
in april , pboc deputy governor yi gang tried to reassure nervous investors in a presentation in new york by saying that the level of non-performing loans ( n pl s ) in the chinese banking sector had “ pretty much stabilized after a long time of clim b ing . ” this was , he said , “ a good development in the financial market . ”
and , after 20 years , the moscow school of political studies has been forced to suspend its russian operations .
such messy policy details have never much bothered free-market economists .
the list goes on .
more recently , the authorities have been deploying every piece of policy artillery they can muster in a vain attempt to moderate this summer ’ s plunge in equity prices .
in the coming weeks , we will draft an international declaration on information and democracy , and in coordination with the leaders of several democratic countries , work to secure support from governments around the world .
there are too few like him .
a world without the imf looks a lot like today ’ s venezuela .
economic populism , by contrast , is occasionally necessary .
in the wake of world war ii , a stronger and more influential institution – the united nations – was established .
we see this in the current discussion about the distributional effects of rescuing the automobile industry ; or the worry that hedge funds , which are widely blamed for today ’ s financial malaise , should have access to the fed ’ s emergency credit lines .
a lower price level would also increase the real value of business debt , weakening balance sheets and thus making it harder for companies to get additional credit .
of course , delivering such a transformation will not be easy .
resistance to sanctions from russia , china , and france has persuaded us officials to “ allow more time for diplomacy ” before pushing for punitive action in the security council .
yet anxiety remains high in the countries most exposed to new supply cuts .
the war in algeria played the key role in enabling de gaulle to return to power in may 1958 , at the age of 67 .
as a result , unemployed workers had to find jobs in new industries , which took more time and training .
four years of civil war have left more than 200,000 dead , one million wounded , and 6.7 million people internally displaced .
for example , in various countries , voters have been tempted to elect business tyco ons : enough with politicians bickering over selfish interests – let the can - do strongmen take charge and run countries like corporations .
but the only economic rights the bush administration recognizes are intellectual property rights , putting the interests of drug companies ahead of those with life threatening diseases , and the free mobility of capital , which has had such devastating effects on many countries .
the us administration is determined to consolidate political freedoms in many developing countries under its sphere of influence ; indeed , expansion of democracy has become a cornerstone of american foreign policy .
in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis , it became clear that countries like greece , italy , spain , and portugal bre ached their maastricht commitments .
morsi ’ s freedom and justice party , created by the muslim brotherhood , secured a plurality , and the two major islamist blocs together received roughly two-thirds of the vote .
but this does not outweigh the risk of under performing , which is why the best policy is to look for the best candidate .
only a month ago , mubarak dismissed demands for constitutional reform as “ futile . ”
that is the debate that the obama administration is leading in the us today .
financial liberalization was sold as a commitment to follow market- friendly policies .
nor is it an answer to demand ha sty enactment of legislation in the face of a threat to cause public disorder by starving oneself to death , as anna haz are has done .
the country is also a major producer of copper , gold , tin , tun g st en , and diamonds .
although there is such a thing as original sin – the w ic ke dness that sim mers , blows up , and sc ars young children and their family and friends – there is also original virtue , which is always present after terrorist atrocities .
and children compe ted over ru bi k ’ s cub es , rather than aug ment ed- reality po k é m on .
high- denomination notes are often used for tax evasion , bribery , drug trafficking , and even terrorism , so governments use demonetization to frustr ate criminal enterprise .
the mainstream view that people are wholly self- interested economic actors denies our in nate capacity for reciprocity , fairness , and moral responsibility .
after the demonstration , china ’ s government adopted a hand s- on approach , letting the people of hong kong know who the boss really is .
they also tend to vote at higher rates , engage in more civic activities , commit fewer crimes , educate their children better , and get sick less frequently by adopting healthier lifestyles .
today ’ s new technologies enable health to be identified in terms of patterns of gene expression , protein production , and metabol ic response .
the democratic process has lost its a ura and its thrust , not least because democratization seems to lead to the rise of political movements the west finds unacceptable .
all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy and , ultimately , the entire european political experiment .
other mor alists will say that the difference between destroying embryos for research purposes and killing civilians in military attacks is that the former is deliberate killing , whereas the latter deaths are “ collateral damage ” – unintended , if foreseeable , side- effects of a justifiable act of war .
nor do existing international lending institutions .
developing-country governments should also encourage the conversion of such debts to gdp- linked or other types of indexed bonds .
but this round trip hardly signals that the world is back to normal .
third , it is critical to manage the capital account in a way that protects and enhances the real economy ’ s growth potential .
despite much higher rates of obesity in high-income countries , premature death and disability from heart disease , cancers , and other ncds have declined substantially .
an unconditional basic income could eliminate much of this mess .
( non- h emo glob in synthetic blood substitutes , known as flu or oc ar b ons , have proved to be less effective oxygen carriers . )
but then fortunes rapidly diver ged , with a few western industrialized countries quickly achieving political and economic dominance worldwide .
first , neither the us nor european countries have much standing as legitimate arbit ers of “ good governance . ”
beyond europe , saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar are also among the world ’ s largest significant oda donors – a reality of which not many people are aware .
they are teachers , engineers , and workers of all types .
the problem is that when the context changes , the trial results become less reliable .
how will the associated conditions be classified ?
as a result , the us , as the world ’ s strongest military power , wants to put bilateral military relations on the upcoming meeting ’ s agenda , along with bilateral economic relations and international political affairs .
when americans finally decide to go on an import diet , as they will someday , the world ’ s hypocrisy over the failed global trade talks will become apparent to all .
`` modern '' behavior may have appeared in different regions and among different groups of humans , much as would happen later in history with the inventions of agriculture , writing , and transport .
for example , the global financial and economic crises that began in 2008 – and the subsequent responses by regulators and policymakers – have imp acted economic growth , job creation , and income equality .
digital connections promote productivity growth ; indeed , they can help developing economies move to the productivity frontier by exposing their business sectors to ideas , research , technologies , and best management and operational practices , and by building new channels to serve large global markets .
addressing these needs is now of paramount importance .
some challenges , such as the misuse of social media to spread disinformation – using , among others , cutting-edge tools like deep fake videos and artificial intelligence – are already clear .
technology does not stand still , and nor should democracy .
in 2014 , ne ves , the candidate of “ belg ian ” brazil , won more than 48 % of the vote .
beyond tax reform , trump ’ s plan to stimulate short-term growth through $ 1 trillion in infrastructure spending is still not on the horizon .
frequently , governments need to be co ax ed into accepting the inev itability of compromise , thanks to pressure from below .
the united states , as a major middle east power , and europe also have an interest in stemming the tide of nuclear proliferation that now threatens the middle east . for a nuclear iran would open the gates to an uncontrolled rush for the bomb across the region .
because users engage heavily with this type of content , digital platforms have an incentive to show case it .
better still , we do not need to wait for new inventions to implement the changes we need ; the transformation can happen right now , with profitable solutions delivered by businesses and driven by markets .
thirty years ago , only a few countries , home to a small share of the global population , had fertility rates substantially below the replacement rate of 2.1 children per woman .
london – as the tenth anniversary of the start of the global financial crisis approaches , a wave of retrospec tive reviews is bearing down on us .
the company recently published a long , defensive blog post responding to what it described as a “ full- thro ated endorsement ” of fossil-fuel divestment by m ary rob in son , united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon ’ s special envoy for climate change .
one model is the european investment bank , which , with € 50 billion of capital , has been able to invest € 400 billion .
terrorism has turned out to be a more stubborn challenge .
so the link between oxid ative stress and disease should not be over emphasized .
in practice , because regulators can not do either perfectly , they do some of each .
does anything matter ?
they identified as austerity plans only those cases in which governments imposed tax hikes or spending cuts because they viewed it as a prudent policy with potential long-term benefits , not because they were responding to the short-term economic outlook and sought to reduce the risk of overheating .
they are simply not there , because they find the place un profitable .
the united kingdom is likely to follow .
either way , germany ’ s internal debate about whether to pay for the greek debt is ris ible .
but some depreciation of the euro would provide a bridge to reach internal governance reform .
under sweden ’ s so-called “ sex purchase law , ” paying for sex is pun ishable by fines or up to six months in prison , plus the humiliation of public exposure .
in the poisonous political atmosphere that has be dev iled the un after the iraq war , widespread disillu sion ment is not surprising .
there are two fundamental reasons why a focus on reducing carbon emissions is the wrong response to global warming .
the dollar and its dis contents
indeed , at the beginning of the year , there was hope that us domestic demand would be strong enough this year to support gdp growth of close to 3 % , despite the stronger dollar .
low real long-term rates mean that any long-term asset that pays , say , $ 100 a year in real terms would have been worth a real $ 1, 4 29 in 1984 , when it yielded 7 % , but would have to be worth a real $ 5,000 now , when it yields just 2 % .
firms innovate organiz ati onally all the time .
but where is the ser en ity of a great power so confident in the superiority of its civilization , and so secure in its future , that it b ides its time ?
some of its members are quietly asking themselves whether there is a future for them in the land of human rights .
europe ’ s anti- europeans
the right is equally divided on the issue of europe , even if it does not include many anti- capitalists in its ranks . like the eu ’ s leftist opponents , they denounce “ di k t ats ” from the european commission in brussels and the french government ’ s acquiescence in them .
above all , the “ soviet mind ” was relatively easy to dec i ph er .
here , after all , was a meeting that , through tough but successful negotiations , re established international order after the upheavals caused by the french revolution and the napole onic wars .
donald rumsfeld and smart power
it was no longer laugh able to say that he could be the republican nominee .
more broadly , us-china hostility would be felt worldwide , and would disrupt international efforts to confront global challenges such as climate change .
but , without compromise , a democracy becomes un govern able .
the civil war in syria is not only a humanitarian disaster ; it is also destabilizing the region and europe as well .
it has already been spec ulated , with reason , that flynn will point a finger at trump ’ s son- in-law and senior adviser , jared kushner .
trump ’ s promise to suspend the iran nuclear deal is particularly worrying .
its cul t- like regime has encouraged a hyper- nationalist worldview , according to which any systematic cooperation with another country – much less the international community at large – is considered a threat to north korea ’ s sovereignty .
professional groups like lawyers have transnational standards .
his world or trump ’ s : that is the question .
if he hopes to be anything remotely close to a responsible leader , he must move urgently to address the deep divisions that he so enthusiastically fueled during his campaign .
trump ’ s fiscal fol lies
similarly , a 2004 new york academy of medicine survey indicated that twice as many people were worried about the side effects of the well-established small po x vaccine as were concerned about the disease itself .
“ the long game here is not to make money selling k its , although the k its are essential to get the base level data , ” says board member pat rick ch ung . “ once you have the data , [ 23 and me ] does actually become the google of personalized health care . ”
the ri o + 20 conference , which will examine the progress made since the first “ earth summit ” in rio de janeiro 20 years ago , will take place there this june .
and , as the edit ori alists hasten to remind us , the downside is especially large at a time when the world ’ s financial system is reeling under the sub-prime mortgage crisis and the united states is entering a recession .
that means , above all , avoiding trade that makes it more difficult to pursue those aims .
no one wants this .
i ’ ve seen this for myself during recent travel s to ben in , ghana , ethiopia , egypt , namibia , nigeria , senegal , and south africa .
liberal democracy is inherently fragile because reconciling its terms does not produce a natural political equilibrium .
some countries de valued their currencies .
there was the us government ’ s elev en th- hour decision to table hundreds of objections to the final summit declaration , effectively reducing it to a series of low est- comm on- denom in ator pl ati tudes . there was also skepticism among developing countries about whether a stronger un commitment to human rights was what annan claimed it to be or , instead , merely a moral flag of convenience – or worse , a legal warrant for western military intervention .
“ we should now emulate the south koreans , ” says e is u ke sak ak i bar a , a leading japanese economist , who was one of the architects of the japanese “ miracle ” of the 1980 ’ s .
an intelligent president in washington is hob bled by a political system that makes it all but impossible to build a consensus for reform at home or decisive action abroad .
when fr itz lan g created the fu tur istic cit ys cape for his groundbreaking 19 27 film , metropol is , he filled its sk ies with ver tig inous tow ers and compact flying vehicles .
if the health impact fund could be adequately financed , it would provide incentives to develop products in proportion to their impact in reducing the global burden of disease .
using g was method ology , we have learned the biological basis for responses to many drugs – both their effectiveness and important side- effects .
in many countries , drug- treatment protocols effectively ensure that women with children will be unable to receive services .
it also hosts the world ’ s most expensive hor ser aces and other lavish sporting events .
taylor does not want to go through all of that . she wants to die at a time of her own choosing .
why an american ? why not a woman ?
and it will sink unless it ful fills its responsibility to act .
this will require considerable patience from governments and publics in the core and periphery alike – in the former to maintain large-scale financing , and in the latter to avoid a social and political backlash against years of painful contraction and loss of welfare .
but the stark reality is that earth hour teaches all the wrong lessons , and actually increases co2 emissions .
yet , despite such shortcomings , it is clear that areas we use for roads can not be used for growing food , and that areas we use to build our houses takes away from forests .
seoul – whether east asia ’ s politicians and pundits like it or not , the region ’ s current international relations are more akin to nineteenth-century european balance-of- power politics than to the stable europe of today .
the communist government in china can no longer derive any legitimacy from marxist , let alone maoist , ideology .
but what did they think europe stands for ?
playing ostr ich about harm reduction does not harm only id us . hiv- infected id us of course have sex with non- users .
neither the former ruling party , fre ti lin , nor the newly formed cn r t , led by x an ana gus m ão , the hero of the resistance to indonesia ’ s occupation , won an outright majority .
moreover , in order to bolster safety – and restore confidence – in the health-care system , the plan calls for better infec tion- control practices and training for a new cad re of skilled workers .
other health metrics are equally disappointing , with data indicating poorer health outcomes for americans throughout their lives .
but , though the epidemic is no longer a front- page story , the virus is far from being contained .
governments would also be expected to allocate adequate domestic funds to achieve these goals , with , for example , african heads of state fulfilling the 2001 abu ja declaration ’ s pledge to allocate at least 15 % of national budgets to the health sector .
the shortage of health workers , facilities , and supplies prevented many people from receiving treatment , allowing the virus to spread further .
indeed , pharmaceutical companies could expect to earn more from a cure for male bal dness .
paris – eurozone monetary officials are expected to make history when they gather for the european central bank ’ s next policy- setting meeting on january 22 .
indeed , almost all taboos that existed after the eruption of the crisis have now been abolished .
this means more than be ef ing up existing procedures .
to paraphrase keynes , you can lead a horse to water but you can ’ t make him drink .
this is out of line with the intentions of the ecb ’ s governing council , as en unci ated in 2003 , after an evaluation of the previous four years of monetary policy .
princeton – at the recent meeting of g-20 finance ministers in australia , us treasury secretary jack le w noted “ philosophical differences with some of our friends in europe , ” before urging europeans to do more to boost their anemic growth rate .
those in favor of a policy tightening would also note that low rates are problematic for savers , insurance companies , and pension funds , whose portfolios often include few equities .
supplies of private-sector securities are limited , reflecting the dominance of bank lending in europe and depressed sentiment in securitization markets .
japan ’ s massive q qe campaign has faced similar traction problems .
the ecb has not depar ted from this standard .
european commission president jean-claude juncker ’ s plan to finance long-term investments in europe by leveraging relatively small amounts of public funds to unlock large flows of private capital is therefore an important step in the right direction .
creating a more employ ment- intensive economy remains a primary objective .
but there is one more issue that negotiators must consider : financial services .
the headline growth number in spain is somewhat encouraging , continuing to show some rebound .
syria ’ s agony continues unab ated ; sectarian attacks in iraq are becoming more frequent and deadly ; the thre ads of lebanon ’ s fragile peace are fra ying ; jordan is awash in refugees ; libya ’ s militias are running rampant and distorting its politics ; tunisia faces political crisis ; and turkey ’ s star as the em bodi ment of islamic democracy has dim med .
the up shot is that we are increasingly reliant on experts . and experts may decide to use their know-how not just to address the challenges ahead , but also to serve their own interests .
indeed , economics has been placed on a pe dest al and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competition authorities , which have been intentionally separated and made independent from politics .
as difficult as it may be , politicians need to pursue comprehensive policy responses .
a second study , the united nations development program ’ s human development report 2014 , corro bor ates these findings .
here , i anticipate that national governments may take a back seat to businesses , sub national governments , labor unions , and educational and non-profit institutions in driving progress , especially in places hit by political fragmentation and a backlash against the political establishment .
when does a little “ good ” volatility turn into excessive “ bad ” volatility ?
d wel ling on performance anxiety may cause hesitation or a loss of inspiration .
and policy uncertainty in the united states is nothing compared to the uk , where businesses face the twin disruptions of brexit and ( potentially ) a labour government led by the far- left jeremy corbyn .
we were doomed , because too many people would consume too much .
in the longer run , economic performance and potential growth will depend on the supply side and , in particular , on a revival of productivity growth .
the united nations millennium project involves a large-scale , coordinated big push of investment in human capital , public infrastructure , and agricultural technologies .
consider the post-crisis performance of the european union and the united states .
mgi and others have identified numerous ec ologically responsible growth opportunities emanating from the smarter use of limited resources .
brussels – the rise of “ illiberal democracy ” in europe is one of the most ban eful trends of our time .
but surely slowing growth , especially where it affects middle-class incomes , has been a major driver of populism in europe and the united states , exacerbated no doubt by the financial crisis .
faced with a deepening economic recession , a collapsing currency , capital flight , and shortages caused by contracting imports , president vladimir putin will need to decide whether to change his approach to ukraine , re- engage with the west to allow for the lifting of sanctions , and build a more sustainable , diversified economy .
distributional issues , including pressures on the middle class and the predicament of population segments vulnerable to slipping through stretched social safety nets , need to be better understood and addressed .
or should they rely on a “ nominal income ” target ?
yes , the excessive private and public debt , the loss of export capacity , and the weakening of institutions harm the economy ( and the polity ) – but only in the long run .
businesses , communities , and families must work together to level the playing field .
for right-wing populists , foreigners , immigrants , or ethnic and religious minorities serve the same purpose .
this is especially evident in europe , where it is argued , with some justification , that , without such reforms , growth will remain anemic , sustaining or even exacerbating fiscal constraints .
the knowledge that one ’ s country terror ized a minority to the point that its members had to flee , or that a substantial share of one ’ s fore bears arrived in defeat and panic , is not exactly an inspiring source of national identity .
the chinese are still maintaining excess capacity in some state-owned industries , leading to export sales at money- losing prices .
but there must have been some initial factor that started the feedback cycle – some underlying source of hesitation .
despite coming under relentless attack for decades , it remains indispensable for providing the public goods that markets can not supply efficiently , equitably , or in sufficient quantity .
more recently , economists such as columbia university ’ s len a ed lun d and university of mar burg ’ s ev el yn kor n , as well as mar ina del la gi ust a of reading university , mar ia la ura di tom mas o of the university of tur in , and ste in er str ø m of the university of oslo , have applied the same approach to prostitu tion .
information- intensive products – typical of today ’ s technologically advanced economies – are different .
dealing as it does with human beings , economics has much to learn from the humanities .
the rest of the world is no longer falling further behind the north atlantic , but nor is it closing the productivity and prosperity gap , implying that these countries will continue to lag behind indefinitely .
the goal of full employment dropped off western leaders ’ radar , even though there was neither a threat of inflation nor additional benefits to be gained from increased openness .
second , the ever- leng th ening pre- christmas consumption boom tends to expand credit , thus causing bubbles in the to y and electronics market during the fall that will burst in january , with potentially damaging consequences for the rest of the year .
marshall ’ s economics has had a mar vel ous run , and has helped economists make sense of the world .
it evidently took more time than expected for the implications to sink in – to understand that “ brexit means brexit , ” as may ’ s pi thy ta ut ology put it .
imagine that they were known , and that the individual victims of policy decisions would somehow st are into the faces of decision makers just as if they were being held at gun point .
new haven – the basic principle of financial risk management is sharing .
business leaders , by contrast , are considered to be productive economic actors – a notion used by some to justify rising inequality .
in 2008 , a bipartisan group of american lead er s — the us- muslim engagement projec t — convened by search for common ground and the consensus building institute , issued a report calling for a new direction for us relations with the muslim world . a primary goal of this effort would be “ to improve of mutual respect and understanding between americans and muslims around the world . ”
in this effort , we are sustained only by education .
the numbers are truly shocking .
the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , frequently end up in jail or suffer violence or early death .
the fourth industrial revolution will amount to a major test for a japanese education system focused on rec iting facts and performing formul a ic calculations – precisely the areas where humans can not compete with intelligent machines .
today , some vital parts of the information- technology sector barely register in the national accounts .
so israel chose to mount punitive ra ids against egyptian and jordanian military out posts and villages that har bor ed mar au ders .
it is in the nature of complex data- gathering programs that no one really has an over view .
the value- for- money question is even more difficult to assess .
in my view , voting for candidates who will enact the right policies is a far more direct strategy for addressing inequality – and much else – than voting for those who want to break up the banks to reduce the amount of money available to dissu ade voters from supporting the right candidates .
hamas , which has ruled gaza since 2006 , may serve as an example of what the brotherhood wants : un divided power , including over the military .
but the lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish two red sea islands c eded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 .
the lack of tangible material gains for ordinary egyptians also fueled public anger .
given egypt ’ s mass death sentences , extra judicial violence , and the dominance of hawks in the security and the military establ ishments , together with the rhetorical , behavioral , and organizational changes within the muslim brotherhood , the chances of reconciliation are fading by the day .
the islamic action front , the brotherhood ’ s political party in jordan , continued to reject the major itarian electoral system , which favors tribes over political parties and other important social groups .
his aim is to obtain and maintain calm along the border .
“ we have to save face , ” said general ab d al- l ati f bad iny , a deputy interior minister who was fired under al- adly .
but tunisia has embraced political inclusion , and could soon find itself back on the path toward healthy economic growth , while egypt ’ s closing society positions its economy for a downward spiral .
that does not work in soccer , nor does it work in business , policymaking , or just about any other field .
stockholm – this year marks the cent en ary of albert einstein 's general theory of relati vity , his master work describing gravity as the cur v ature of space and time .
it is larger , for it now has to explain not just why the universe isn ’ t collapsing , but why its expansion is accelerating .
in contrast , the european union has tried to define these terms in directives aimed at prohibiting the practice .
why are we suddenly experiencing so many close results in democratic elections ?
in india , two mini- grid developers , hus k power systems and om c power , recently secured a total of $ 30 million in new investments , while y om a micro power net ted $ 28 million .
athens – on val ent ine ’ s day , countless couples will celebrate roman ce by cand l el ight .
yet , if progress continues at its current rate , there will still be some 3.6 million such deaths per year by 2030 .
the goal should be to develop better , less toxic treatment regim ens that work faster than what is currently available .
consider poverty in africa .
israel is often mentioned as a reason .
but new technologies should not be expected to stop convergence , even if , as is likely , they slow it down .
in any case , markets eventually force an often- sharp depreciation of the currency .
jobs in electronics assembly , which plays a huge role in global trade and has helped to drive growth in many emerging economies – notably , china – are particularly vulnerable .
paris – once again , the world ’ s emerging economies are facing a bout of uncertainty .
now .
one can predict only one outcome with confidence : a bumpy ride .
the difference in returns across emerging countries and among sectors within them has grown .
turkey ’ s economy has not suffered nearly as much as brazil ’ s , but its rot will cause greater long-term damage .
they were only too willing to advise europe to work harder and spend less , as legitimate pride m ing led with an understandable desire to settle historical scores and att en uate their legacies of colonial submission and humiliation .
it is not a question of whether democracy or authoritarianism is best .
the difference between the cost of a full-time employee with benefits and an independent contractor can be 30 % or more , so there is a strong incentive for companies to replace workers on standard full-time employment contracts with independent contractors as long as companies can attract the talent they need .
for africa to reach the growth rates needed to meet the united nation ’ s millennium development goals , women must be brought fully into the formal economy and the financial sector .
and yet , with many millions of young people unemployed in 2015 , and many more under employed , africa has so far failed to reach its full potential .
a similar transformation can be seen in every successful non- opec developing country .
unemployment is now running at over 40 % in kosovo and breeds political volatility .
i believe that the withdrawal should come even sooner , so that the us can avoid leaving behind a legacy of animosity that may continue to ha unt it for generations .
the only way to stop the race to the bottom is through global cooperation .
in fact , there was no single army , but rather competing armed groups with distinct backers , ideologies , and goals .
it is high time to address the problem .
and while many are fighting back , they could use some help .
a total of 8 0,000 child refugees in jordan lack access to an education .
according to the un and world bank , if more money were allocated to conflict- prevention programs , up to $ 70 billion could be saved annually in refuge e- relocation costs .
speaking at the news x change media conference late last year , pas cal id ou described it as her “ duty ” to bring attention to the abuse she and other female journalists regularly endure .
the us alliance was met with escalating counter force by russia and iran , whose lebanese proxy army hezbollah is fighting alongside assad ’ s government .
and , surely , academics are also to blame for the inertia , with many of them still defending elegant but deeply flawed models of perfect markets that create an illusion of safety for a system that is in fact highly risk- prone .
after 30 years of massive effort , all prohib iti onism has achieved is to shift areas of cultiv ation and drug cartels from one country to another ( the so-called ballo on effect ) .
similar conditions exist – or may begin to exist – in several locations worldwide .
those forces are unsure of how much international support they will receive , and the international community is unsure of the democratic forces ’ plans and cohesion .
in particular , after jean-claude juncker took over as president of the european commission in 2014 , the eu ’ s executive branch began to bill itself as a brus sel s- based institution capable of leading the way toward what juncker called in his 2015 state of the union speech “ more union in our union . ”
worse was to follow for those hoping for better us- iran relations .
america ’ s decision to abandon the role it has played for more than seven decades thus marks a turning point .
if the economy grows at an annual rate of around 6 % for the remainder of the decade , it will fulfill my 20 -year projection .
but the low price of gas will impede the development of renewable energy sources unless accompanied by subsidies or carbon taxes .
later , negotiations could be opened up to all states , placing them under the amb it of the un f cc c , for example .
after all , in 1947 similar jewish “ freedom fighters ” ble w up the king david hotel , killing tens of british officers .
as a result , they are less likely to destabilize the global financial system or impose harm on most shareholders and the public .
many european countries have since undergone de industrialization .
to be sure , as is true in any other democracy , elections will continue to be highly competitive ; but , despite our differences , the vast majority of mexicans – regardless of their partisan loy alties – share an overriding desire to build a better future for mexico .
the mdgs also cast a global spotlight on the crippling debt burdens faced by many of africa ’ s poorest countries , leading to a process of debt canc el ation led by the international monetary fund and the world bank .
a second key source of capital lies with private and community philanthropic foundations , which are required by us law to don ate at least 5 % of their assets to charitable causes annually .
the health costs of environmental change
it draws on the best science to identify the key planetary processes regulating the earth ’ s ability to sustain holoc en e- like conditions .
moreover , redistributive policies did not appear to have any detrim ental effects on economic performance .
if , on the other hand , the public is basically right about heightened disaster risks , the policy issues become much more complex .
to this end , one approach that african governments could emulate is the tb management strategy in place for the continent ’ s mining sector , an inter- agency plan devised in 2014 by the southern african development community .
but the us and its allies quickly rejected the agreement as an iranian plo y designed to halt the growing momentum for additional sanctions .
jerusalem – the aftermath of turkey ’ s failed military coup raises a fundamental question : will president recep tayyip erdoğan continue to pursue his authoritarian path , perhaps with a vengeance , or will he reach out to his opponents and attempt to bridge the deep f issu res in turkish society ?
the main trap the new government must avoid is a return to a heavily patern alistic style of governance .
by the end of 2013 , erdoğan ’ s alliance with the gülenists had turned into open warfare .
turkey insists that vis a- free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should be delivered this year .
given that the eu ’ s combined gdp is eight times larger than that of russia , we should expect a path toward normality for ukraine to mean that the eu would dominate the country ’ s foreign trade .
more generally , the debate about the gülen movement should serve as an opportunity to clarify the relationship between religion and politics , while reminding the turkish public – and muslim-majority countries throughout the region – of the core democratic values that have enabled turkey to develop and thrive .
in any event , the war in iraq will not protect the world ’ s energy supplies in 50 years .
military- related programs include the pentagon ( around $ 600 billion ) , the cia and related agencies ( around $ 60 billion ) , homeland security ( around $ 50 billion ) , nuclear weapons systems outside of the pentagon ( around $ 30 billion ) , and veterans ’ programs ( around $ 160 billion ) .
you can not simply avoid disease ; you have to do something to promote creation of the desired capacity .
that is why i am more concerned with what the government does with its data concerning us .
d all as – summer is conference season – a critical time for building brands , making connections , and shaping industries .
the logical response to this pressure is to deleg ate some decisions to others .
while many were curious , i am sure many preferred not to face the facts .
my d enti st- guide also described her work spreading “ san itary propaganda ” – that is , visiting local grade schools to teach children how to brush their teeth .
uni formity is pr ized above quality , and convenience is valued over fresh ness ( and often over cost ) .
while i expect to learn much more as i work on hic cup , i am already sure that the biggest problem will be finding people to take on the challenges in each community . what ’ s the optimal balance between repl ic ability and the human touch ?
but the most important factor supporting america ’ s currency dominance is the institutionalized system of checks and balances that operates among the executive , legislative , and judicial branches of its government .
san francisco – after a prolonged hon ey moon for the digital economy , the dark side of the internet , social media , and “ big tech ” has become increasingly apparent in recent years .
we must develop a spirit of compassion with those who suffer , with special care for the children , the aged , the poor , the disabled , the refugees , and the lonely ;
these changes are essential not only for the sake of fairness , but also for africa ’ s long-term prosperity .
south africa ’ s jacob  zuma finally bu ck led under pressure from his own party to resign the presidency .
but it is almost impossible to tell a bangladeshi muslim and an indian beng ali muslim apart .
germany , france , the united kingdom , and sweden took in 70 % of those granted refugee status in the eu last year .
britain ’ s health secretary , jeremy hunt , has called them “ completely inappropriate , ” insisting that they “ undermine ” prime minister theresa may .
their recommendations should be binding , but they should also be focused on the medium term , rather than on annual fiscal outcomes .
the problem is that the team as a whole is not playing cohes i vely , and all of the top players are struggling individually , owing to messy problems at home .
although some countries have been allowed to breach the deficit cap during challenging times , italy is almost never afforded much accommodation , owing to its high debt levels .
to return to the path of innovative integration , the eu needs a new framework for public debate that underpins effective cooperation among partners and friends , instead of fueling conflict among seemingly ir reconc il able rivals .
there can be no telling what 2019 will bring .
only then can leaders design the kind of thoughtful , comprehensive , and forward-looking strategy that the migrant crisis – and , indeed , the eu ’ s own survival – demands .
nationalists often argue as though it was akin to virg inity – there one moment , gone the next .
a lifeline for european solidarity
in annex ing crimea and stoking separatist violence in donbas , the kremlin ’ s aim has clearly been to destabilize ukraine in order to bring it under russia ’ s thumb .
the tide of national democracy is rising across europe , and slogans about “ ever closer union ” will not reverse it .
but arguments about whether the limit should be 60 % of gdp or more miss a larger point .
whether this effect will be sufficient to revitalize southern europe remains to be seen .
the world could perhaps cal m ly wait for an answer , but for the fact that the progress of iran ’ s nuclear program and the approaching end of president bush ’ s term might create an in calcul able dynamic of its own .
it must also establish the conditions for fiscal policymaking at the national level , through bal anc ed- budget rules and other measures .
a union of almost 450 million people ( after brexit ) can not allow a country two-thirds its size to treat it like a group of v ass al states .
but most banks mol lified regulators by simply shedding riskier assets to improve their capital ratios .
bank lending fell a little in the us , too , as banks sought to restore their balance sheets and rebuild their capital strength .
but in the core of the eurozone – countries like germany and the netherlands – credit has been plentiful , and interest rates have been close to zero for some time , so there was never much chance that bond purchases would have a significant impact there .
the biggest impact on market structure will continue to come from ever- rising capital requirements , which will make bank credit more expensive and encourage borrowers to look elsewhere .
the horizon seemed brighter on the european side as well .
by whis per ing “ er ic s son ” into re inf el d t ’ s e ar , it seems , pers son achieved the desired result .
protected by deposit insurance , us savings and loan institutions were able to attract , at low interest rates , huge amounts of customer deposits , which they invested in risky , though seemingly profitable , assets .
the british wanted to win the war – but not so much that they were prepared to accept unlimited liability for debt incurred by the french and russian governments .
further liberalization of farm trade will not ensure food security .
globalization has resulted in a lasting change in the distribution of power and opportunities , laying the groundwork for a new world order for the twenty-first century .
if not , they could end up buying the technology from china or the united states , which will be investing in their own grids in the coming years .
over time , this stimulated ever- greater economic convergence .
in france – the other pillar of the european project – president emmanuel macron can count on a solid parliamentary majority .
like it or not , the eurozone will have to act as the eu ’ s av ant- gar de , because the eu as a whole , with its 27 member states , will be neither willing nor able to accelerate political unification .
unlike economic migrants , those fleeing oppression , terror , and massacre have an in ali enable right to asylum , which entails an unconditional obligation by the international community to provide shelter .
that principle should be applied at the global level as well , through the establishment of an inclusive framework that fosters development – and encourages the rejection of fanati cism – in the islamic world .
but whether germany and the rest of europe will do it remains to be seen .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly include existential questions about the survival of the eurozone and the entire european project .
if they wait too long , the old walls will be restored and the euro ’ s guardians will be left out in the cold .
and , despite concerns about the eu ’ s “ democratic deficit , ” this cohort seems to appreciate the potential for political participation .
moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever talks about upholding the post-war liberal international order .
the credit or / debtor split was thrown into sharp relief this summer , during the negotiations over greece ’ s third bailout agreement .
today , supporters of the eu must face the facts : an ever- closer union is not the european people ’ s will , even in the member states that would never choose to leave it .
so now it faces a stark choice : a leap forward toward unification or inevitable disintegration .
thus , although european countries remained democratic , the eu institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions was transferred , have remained democr ac y- free .
it can not accept , much less advance , the notion that checks and balances are obstacles to progress , or that foreigners threaten the european way of life .
the result was an unnecessarily deep and protracted recession .
google prevailed because it provided a better service than anyone else , and it did so early .
it 's an expression of prosperity , progress , and justice .
at first sight , simultaneous progress on many fronts seems too much to hope for .
that is why the eu and china should work to complete the bilateral investment treaty that they have been negotiating for years , with limited progress .
the union ’ s capacity as a global actor will be enhanced by merging the high representative with the commissioner for external relations and establishing a single diplomatic service .
that does not mean , of course , that the single market can not work with border controls or multiple currencies .
europe ’ s blood st ained history also provides a useful warning for china and the rest of asia , and can serve as an example for overcoming the region ’ s long-standing anim osi ties .
in 2014 , shortly after the publication of his first novel , the me ur sa ult investigation , which re tells albert cam us ’ the stranger from the perspective of the murdered arab ’ s brother , a salaf ist im am declared a fat wa calling for da oud ’ s death for ap ost asy and her es y .
no one can doubt that the eu has been a guarantor of peace , democracy , modernity , and progress for all of its members .
these issues should diminish with time ; as that happens , part of the productivity l ull should disappear .
only one person out of 200 thought that it would not – a rather surprising collective assessment of the tr ending risks , given europe ’ s current economic situation .
such an approach would make the eu ’ s “ no bailout ” rule more credible and avoid placing an excessive burden on monetary policy .
yet three internal fault lines are making it difficult for the eu to achieve these ends .
in germany , the netherlands , finland , denmark , austria , and sweden , too , the popularity of populist , anti-eu , anti- migrant right-wing parties is on the rise .
the latter is a self- obsessed h uc k ster who rose to power by playing on people ’ s bas est emotions .
this self-serving impulse was on display in european parliament president martin sch ul z ’ s fi ery comments calling for the uk to invoke article 50 ( the withdrawal procedure ) immediately – a move surely intended as a shot across the bow of his political rival , german chancellor angela merkel , who had called for deliberation and time .
the gr is ly execu tions of two japanese citizens caught by islamic state terrorists in syria have provided precisely the encouragement that abe needs to pursue such measures .
thomas piketty ’ s marx ian claim that capitalism is failing because domestic inequality is rising has it exactly back wards .
any objective assessment of the eurogroup ’ s recent deal on greek public debt would conclude that it condem ns greece to permanent debt bond age .
but there are significant differences and economic imbalances within the eu and the euro zone , reflected , for example , by increasingly divergent interest rates .
the eu has wasted the opportunities afforded by the 2008 global financial crisis and the subsequent euro crisis .
sooner or later , someone will take eu countries to court over this .
the fear that extending the work day will damage employment is unfounded . it is a tried and true path towards growth , competitiveness and employment .
while the ecb can claim independence vis-à-vis insolvent , peripheral governments , it is entirely at the mercy of the governments of europe ’ s creditor countries .
one example is russia , which is skeptical about the eu ’ s intentions , most recently over ukraine .
when asylum seekers reach european shores , the eu should take collective financial and administrative responsibility for processing and accommodating them , regardless of where they dis embark .
those images are of children ’ s sh ri vel ed , vit r ified bodies ; of the wounded whose lim bs , for lack of drugs , have been am put ated by desperate doctors who are soon massac red themselves ; of women m own down by rocket fire , as in sar aj evo 24 years ago , while waiting in line to buy y og ur t or bread ; of volunteers struck down while di gging through the rubble in search of survivors ; of human beings dra ined of strength , surviving in fil th and waste , saying good by e to life .
europe needs a plan b
images of miserable refugee families drif ting in the sea , at the mercy of rap acious smugglers and g ang sters , can easily inspire feelings of pity and compassion ( and not just in germany ) .
the classic argument that the eu , like a bic ycle , must always keep moving forward to avoid falling over , is simply not true : the reflection period may be frustrating for feder alists , but it also proves that , even at a standstill , the eu continues .
yet experience has shown that the effective lower bound is different from the z l b .
behind almost every request for asylum that an eu country receives is a human tragedy – a micro- history of violence , fear , and loss .
they may not change by much the number of hours worked by the main bread winner in a family ( typically a man ) , but they do influence the participation of women in the labor force .
what is particularly problematic in the eu is the clash between radical politics and mainstream governance .
since 2008 , italy , spain , and greece have added almost six million people to that total , while in france and germany the proportion of the population that is poor has remained stable , at around 20 % .
this should be combined with the mutualization of some portion of the liabilities of highly indebted countries – defined as a debt-to-gdp ratio above , say , 60 % or 70 % – and modest write- downs in exchange for long-term zero- cou p on bonds .
although they are permitted to come and go as they please , there are no alternative living spaces or food- distribution points .
as long as the rest of the international community fails to fulfill its responsibilities toward the refugees , it will remain difficult to convince a skeptical european public to do so .
a smart , comprehensive plan would calm the fears .
furthermore , it seems equally im probable that the immediate impact of exiting the eurozone today would be larger than the long-run costs of remaining , given the insistence of greece ’ s creditors on austerity .
they should recognize that acquiescence would be tantamount to handing the us a blan k check to set the rules of war and peace beyond the un security council , and the rules of global trade beyond the world trade organization .
since 1999 , members of the european monetary union ( emu ) have experienced a number of severe ex ogenous shocks : the rise in the price of a barrel of oil from around $ 10 to $ 150 ; the collapse of equity markets after the do t- com bubble implo ded ; the spreading risk of terrorism after the september 11 , 2001 , and two wars .
certainly , the eu will continue to exist and its institutions will continue to function , for better or worse , on the foundation of the treaty of nice .
more importantly , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness , which is ultimately determined by the value added to goods and services .
this belief could not be constr ued to have any influence on my decisions , unless i also said and believed that homosexuality is also a crime .
the ruling national congress party ( nc p ) appears poised to challenge the result of the referendum .
now it is the member states that are resisting the urgent need for a coordinated eu-wide policy response to the deepening crisis .
but europe ’ s policymakers claim to be making progress toward a so-called “ banking union , ” which means collective banking supervision , rather than a merger of banks themselves .
in 1978 , china ’ s newly installed leader , deng xiaoping , viewed singapore as living proof of the superiority of capitalism over communism .
brussels – the fear of contagion has spread over europe . many see greece as the potential first domin o to fall in a scenario that runs as follows : the greek austerity measures do not suffice , the debt crisis deepens , and the risk of a sovereign default spreads to other european economies .
watching students from serbia , croatia , and bosnia confront their memories of the balkan wars , “ european students ” had first- hand experience of what true “ reconciliation ” meant and what the rules of the game were in the greatest success the eu had known – transcen ding the cold war and nationalist anim osi ties .
to be sure , in eu institutions ’ public and ceremon ial meetings , interpretation and transl ation must be equally available , at least in principle , from every language into every other .
three years ago this month , international terrorism struck europe .
when the us housing market started to turn south , the biggest under writers ( such as country wide ) did not go bankrupt right away , because they had sold the vast majority of their loans to the c do market .
any financially literate fund manager knows that risk and return are positively correlated .
europe ’ s free rid ers
most were small traders buying goods for res ale at home , boosting the economy of eastern poland , the poorest part of that country .
one case concerns 18 roma children from the northeastern city of ostr av a in the czech republic who were placed in “ special ” schools for those deemed mentally deficient , where they receive a markedly inferior education .
those two years would also indicate whether italian banks are in better shape than many now fear .
if europe has a single market and a single currency , it needs a single bank regulator .
it is also well known that european productivity is falling behind , too , probably due to the same factors that make europe seem d ull , cautious , and lacking in ambition when compared with many of its competitors .
there are many other tools to advance integration .
the banks need real stress tests , not the official confidence game carried out earlier this year .
a country with a balanced primary budget collec ts enough revenue to pay its current expenses but not the interest on its outstanding debt .
on balance , therefore , european and american women work about the same amount of hours .
but this is a dangerous notion , one that entails not just massive risks , but also unacceptably high interim human costs .
doing so would provide some re im bur sement to countries that currently carry an und u ly large part of the burden .
today , we can recognize the out lines of a post- american international ( dis ) order – not only its emerging structures , but also its risks , threats , and conflicts , all of which are intensifying .
the quick - tempered twins took issue with the reform treaty ’ s proposed voting system for the council of ministers , and then stol e the lim el ight from pap acy with their own hom ophob ic declarations , pro clam ations that seem to exclude any possibility of integrating the eu ’ s charter of rights into poland ’ s domestic law .
risks that emerge in one country can affect the entire currency area .
indeed , a constitution is by its nature an attempt to `` tame '' history , to make it follow the laws of man rather than its own logic , including unwelcome conting encies and the wh ims of fate .
these achievements are largely due to european cooperation .
for the very first time , the average deficit has fallen below 1.5 % , standing at 1.2 % .
here the us needs the help of europeans , and it makes no sense to call this world uni - polar , either .
but there is no denying that it is much easier to support fiscal austerity when one is wealthy enough not to rely on public services or be at serious risk of becoming mired in long-term unemployment .
the eurozone ’ s unemployment rate , at 1 0.9 % , is at its highest level since the euro was introduced , and young people everywhere , as the first to suffer the consequences of the crisis , are paying a disproportion ally high price .
nevertheless , a smart strategy for europe will require greater investments in hard power .
the transition to democracy promised freedom and prosperity to all who had suffered in communism ’ s strang le hold .
the key to neutr alizing the geopolitical advantage that russia enjoys is to establish a unified energy policy with a europe-wide regulatory authority which has precedence over national regulators and a europe-wide distribution network .
edi th c res son , a former european commissioner for research , once said that , “ funding directly nano technologies would have been more rewarding than creating cer n . ”
the maastricht treaty established a monetary union , but the political union that is an indispensable precondition for the common currency ’ s success remained a mere promise .
elections in greece – where the recession is turning into a depression – may give 40- 50 % of the popular vote to parties that favor immediate default and exit from the eurozone .
international observers took such notice of draghi ’ s commitment to do “ whatever it takes ” to save the euro because so many of them have come to doubt other leading european players ’ commitment to do likewise .
in the early 1990 's , ukraine gave up its nuclear weapons . since then , it has participated in un and nato peace missions , and it has settled its borders with all its neighbors .
today , eu membership is a more powerful incentive than ever for what the eu calls three “ candidate countries ” ( croatia , f y r macedonia , and turkey ) and five “ potential candidate countries ” ( albania , bosnia and her ze go v ina , kosovo under un security council resolution 12 44 , mon ten e gr o , and serbia ) .
so america needs europe , but now at the margins .
one-third of those companies have acquired a tech company since the beginning of 2015 .
there could be no greater opportunity for doing so than this strategically crucial window in the history of europe and the southern mediterranean .
exposure to mexican debt alone represented some 90 % of the capitalization of major us banks .
private capital , of course , is preferable , but , given the risk that it will be wiped out by future public intervention , investors will be wary .
yet everyone knew that once the bundestag voted for the latest greek rescue and enough time passed to acknowledge reality gr ac efully , merkel would reverse course and argue that the eurozone needed a bigger firewall after all .
germany ’ s new foreign minister has spoken of trying to recre ate the old “ we im ar triang le ” of france , germany , and poland .
their leadership made it possible for europe to make great strides towards its post-war ideals - peace , stability , and prosperity .
even the shares of the japanese yen and the british pound , though very small , are still higher than that of the renminbi .
they can en roll in government- funded , industr y- organized training schemes .
we should , for example , want to prevent the militar ization of nuclear energy in iran precisely because of our concern as europeans , not because we are allies of the us .
the french center-left must lead in conce iving a vision for europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength .
but these developments have not come about as part of a strategy .
this might sound hyperbol ic .
in the years since , russia has annexed crimea and destabilized eastern ukraine .
humiliating a small country and rendering it a virtual protec tor ate does not serve europe ’ s long-term interest .
that , in turn , will create a much more cooperative relationship between france and germany .
despite its good operating margins , growing markets , and prime international clients , the company experienced a drop in liquidity , requiring serious balance-sheet restructuring .
so long as they could finance deficits by printing a local currency and de valuing it from time to time , they would stick to their free- spending ways .
and if the reforms are not implemented and growth fails to materialize , politicians are likely to blame qe , not their own failure to take all the other steps that must follow it on the path of economic recovery .
if risk premia increase , it would be a result of creditors ’ doubts about a government ’ s ability to finance itself in the long run , owing to a downward revision of growth expectations or a domestic political stalemate in which taxpayers oppose bondholders .
and yet most economists , even those who were never keen on emu in the first place , have been reluctant to make the argument that the time has come to abandon a failed experiment .
its rapidly rising public debt is set to top 100 % of gdp this year .
from 2010 to 2016 , global output rose at an average annual rate of 3.4 % , according to the international monetary fund .
the juncker plan is supposed to unlock , with € 21 billion in eu funding , projects worth 15 times as much ( € 3 15 billion ) .
in a speech at the annual gathering of central bankers in jackson hole , wy oming , in 2014 , mario draghi , the ecb ’ s president , explained that three things could improve economic performance in europe :
this indicates that the end of qe – which is likely to come later this year – will not mean the end of the recovery .
the result was an across-the-board decline in long-term interest rates , and an increase in credit as a share of gdp .
either way , eurozone leaders would be better off taking action now , rather than waiting for the single currency ’ s next moment of truth .
can the euro serve as a credible alternative ?
fourth , the spirit of the maastricht rule on public debt would be reinforced , and moral hazard would be reduced .
the pro-growth achievements of the past few years are real .
like the capital controls in greece ( and , until recently , in cyprus ) , the purpose is to stem the crisis while better mechanisms are implemented .
the activities of terrorist groups contribute to violence and instability in neighboring regions , driving an increasing number of migrants to the eu .
ev ading tax evasion
yet events in the 1970 ’ s put that faith to a cruel test .
can we do better ?
imagine bush par laying with saddam hussein in 2005 or 2006 , if war had never come again to iraq , after having called him this generation ’ s hitler .
but examination of genom es – particularly mic robes – has shown that genes moving between dist antly related organisms are an important catalyst of evolutionary change .
much of the sinister realism in planet of the apes stems from bou l le ’ s impressive attention to scientific detail and knowledge of research into animal behavior at that time .
in the 2002 elections , morales received an unexpected boost from the us ambassador , who , by declaring himself against morales , stir red up nationalist sentiment .
if this turns to full-blown deflation , accompanied by uncontrolled rising real interest rates , the risk to growth would be serious .
both bush and blair want to leave iraq , if not with a victory , then at least with some sense of `` mission accomplished . ''
this continues to impede the case against milosevic , raising questions about whether there is sufficient proof directly linking him to the policy of geno cidal ethnic cleansing , although this is likely to be less problematic since the charges against him turn not on “ command responsibility , ” but instead on the icty ’ s charter principles of individual responsibility .
they could use the time , with international help , to build up effective state institutions , address economic development , and heal the rift between west bank and gaza .
the eu has negotiated and initi aled ( but not yet signed ) a stabilization and association agreement with serbia , despite its recalcit r ance in the kosovo negotiations and meddling in bosnia .
the ties that bind us together were fra yed by forty years of soviet domination , but this did not fundamentally change these states ’ european character .
fortunately , china has both the experience and the where with al to experiment with the next stage of structural transformation .
korean rulers only managed to survive by playing one foreign power off against the other , and by offering subservi ence , mainly to chinese emper ors , in exchange for protection .
it is too much to expect a repeal of the foreign agent law .
so far , it is odd to claim that advanced countries have stimulated demand excessively .
democracies , however , can also produce a more enlightened type of populism , such as that offered by us senator bernie sanders .
the implication of the doom -and- glo om view is that liberal democracy ’ s defenders can not reclaim the moral high ground until they have re examined their own political and economic assumptions .
but italian prosecutors have now requested a trial for several senior eni executives – including the current ceo , cl audi o des cal zi , and his predecessor – as well as e te te and several others ; and they are pursuing separate charges against four senior shell executives .
while getting the facts wrong can easily result in misguided , fe ar- based policies , a more balanced , fact- based recognition of what humanity has achieved enables us to focus our efforts on the areas where we can achieve the most good ( often where we are already doing well ) .
last winter boston was something of an anomaly .
given that lula is an av owed leftist who counts hugo chávez and fidel castro among his friends , brazil ’ s performance is all the more surprising .
what it received from tillerson ’ s committee is an exercise in mis direction .
but , unlike the poor in many emerging and developed countries , who can hope for social mobility , israeli arabs are second- class citizens , even if their living standards remain higher than those of most arabs in the region .
“ i think that may be what this is all about , ” dur bin said .
the chan - zuckerberg initiative is a high-profile example of the rapid growth of social- impact finance that compl ements and supports traditional philanthropy .
but the next few years will be especially perilous , because new ness itself creates dangers as rules and red lines are re defined .
while i can not rule out the possibility of f oul play , i am un convinced .
now , consider some key economic data points .
meanwhile , the economic downturn is doing its bit to help the gangs ’ cause : jobs will dry up , poverty will increase and the government ’ s ability to provide basic welfare and social services will be tested , making a life of crime all the more attractive and rewarding .
examples include the exp ulsion of jews from spain in 14 92 , of hu gu en ots from france in 16 85 , of germans and others from eastern europe following wwii , of some palestinians from israel in 1948 , and of indians from uganda in the 1970s .
similarly , the assumption that the liberal- democratic west is largely consistent in its economic and geopolitical interests is fundamentally flawed .
even as pakistan fights one of the world ’ s most pit ched battles against terrorism , increasingly violent weather is pushing up the cost of food and clean water , threatening energy supplies , undermining the economy , and posing a potent and costly security threat .
cor k – migrants face countless perils .
those of faith do great work because of it .
but this also means that 60 % of news consumers regard the legacy media as being ca reless with facts .
that position was further refined in what is perhaps the greatest defense of freedom of speech by an american judge : louis bran de is ’ s con curr ing opinion in the 19 27 case of whit ney v . california .
such action is vital if we are to break the vicious circle of disinformation and political polarization that undermines democracies ’ ability to function .
false information on twitter is re tweeted by many more people and far more rapidly than true information , and repeating it , even in a fact- checking context , may increase an individual ’ s likelihood of accepting it as true .
facebook is now attempting to flag fake news stories by noting that they have been “ disputed by third- party fact chec kers . ”
the absence of a net fall for the year reflects the combination of a rise in corporate profits and a 12 % decline in the price- earnings ratio . and the fall in the price- earnings ratio is an indication of the likely evolution of share prices in the next few years .
words and narratives affect international affairs in similar ways .
eventually , these debts will become unsustainable .
one can not think of any natural science in which orthodoxy swings between two poles .
but they have the tools and supports to manage these risks .
holding people accountable for mistre ating farm workers will be challenging , but not impossible .
over the same nine- year period , nominal gdp in these economies increased by just $ 2.1 trillion .
but , while it will be interesting to see whether he speaks out or is shut up , one shouldn ’ t read too much into his election : he finished last among those elected , beating by a single vote ta yi b abu ra h man , one of arafat ’ s most trusted lieu ten ants and an old- school hard liner .
if the chinese government does not want its citizens to read a foreign newspaper , then it is up to them to figure out how to block access to it . the newspaper is under no obligation to do it for them .
running against the political elite is , of course , the essence of populism everywhere .
employment numbers have been strong , consumer confidence is solid , and the oil sector is just not large enough relative to gdp for the price collapse to bring the us economy to its knees .
governments have a very important educational , ad monit ory , and regulatory role to play : people should know the risks and probabilities , for they may wind up among losers of the other $ 6 30 billion .
the list goes on .
let us imagine that we have been trans ported to a parallel universe , one where the us federal reserve has not held interest rates at or near zero .
in addition , fed officials should avoid weighing in on issues that are only ob liqu ely related to monetary policy .
monetary policy , far from being dissip ated in rising prices , as the theory predicted , turned out to have a much greater impact on unemployment than on inflation , especially in the past 20 years .
of course , congress is perfectly capable of making mistakes ; but that is why there are elections .
if local banks suffer a run , or if corporations have trouble rolling over their debt , they need to be able to borrow dollars from the local central bank , which in turn may have no choice but to get those dollars from the fed .
one small hike and the fed owns every bad outcome , no matter what the real cause .
untested medicine is being used to treat the wrong ail ment – and the chronically ill patient continues to be neglected .
given these implication , it is little wonder that markets turned up .
a new approach is desperately needed .
russia ’ s troubles , too , do not reflect the impact of fed policies .
this resulted in a “ currency mismatch ” between dollar liabilities and revenues that were often denominated in local currencies .
moreover , it believed that nine rate hikes before the end of this summer would be necessary to keep inflation below its target of 2 % per year . but inflation is expected to rise at an annual rate of just 1.5 % for the rest of this year , and next year .
a recent study by the pew research center noted that americans earned 4 % less income in 2014 than they did in 2000 , and for the first time in more than 40 years , middle-class americans no longer constitute a majority of the population .
if history is any guide , tightening monetary policy in the near term will only lead to further economic turbulence , followed by a rapid retreat to low interest rates .
there in lie the contradictions , ev asi veness , and lack of transparency regarding the terms on which calderón ’ s war is being conducted .
but it does suggest that a more pluralistic society , open to all kinds of difference , can learn , work , and love better .
small wonder , then , that germany , politically unable to vote on more bailout resources , has outsourced that job to the ecb , the only institution that can bypass democratically elected parliaments .
much the same is true for organizations like fifa .
male life expectancy was 40 years .
proc tor requested that the patent examination be continued , sub mitting additional patent claims and even changing his lawyers several times ( allowing more bureaucratic delay ) .
cows release large volumes of he at- tr apping methane .
alternatively , they can borrow from the natural world a strategy called is om orph ic mim ic ry : just as non- poisonous sn akes evolve to resemble a poisonous species , organizations can make themselves look like institutions in other places that are perceived as legitimate .
for example , pe te weber , a retired business executive from fres no and a member of the california republican party ’ s executive committee , is at the forefront of a nationwide movement of efforts to think boldly about how to move families out of poverty and into self- sufficiency .
it also requires greater coordination among all the european union ’ s member states and their allies and partners .
a misleading figure of speech has been applied literally to unleash a real war on several fronts , including iraq , gaza , lebanon , afghanistan , and somalia .
fillon is also an economic liberal – and is often characterized as a french margaret thatcher – whereas le pen is a protectionist .
are these harb ing ers of a robust recovery for the financial sector , or just urban myths ?
this is no easy task .
bigger companies , with more complex balance sheets , have more places to hide them .
a case of insolvency was made increasingly worse by continuing to pretend that it was a mere liquidity problem .
maybe the answer is that the clock starts tic king on the five years when the crisis is fully over , which is not yet true in europe .
it is discouraging investments in the green economy . and it has no infrastructure policy to address supply-side bottlenecks .
tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors they want to change the world , but many are in tox icated by the idea that the world will be better when they sell their business to the highest bid der .
the west needs real investments and higher productivity and wage growth – not more economically un justifiable profits .
( india and china have , by the same token , been the fastest-growing economies . )
for example , micro ensure and b ima have made insurance solutions available to millions of people ; but their services ultimately depend on independent insurers to allocate capital and under write insurance policies .
given banks ’ fid u ci ary obligations to their customers , this is not an entirely bad trait .
and china is continuing to engage in – and in some cases escalating – its territorial disputes with regional neighbors .
whether evaluating an assumption about the rise of house prices or whether a news story is true , the market does not provide a definitive answer inst ant ane ously .
the next phase of finance
in that position , to the con ster nation of many former wall street colleagues , gen sl er spent five years working vigorously to implement financial- reform legislation , including pursuing the aggressive regulation of derivatives .
yet this plau sibly will help prevent runs because it means sudden withdraw als by some won ’ t damage the accounts of others who did not withdraw .
it must also consider china ’ s rise , which demands that china be incorporated more fully into governance bodies , which will have far-reaching implications , especially as the country emerges as a less benevolent global actor .
failure at the financial stability board
but if there were , what would it say about the fsb ’ s performance so far , under the leadership of mario draghi and then of mark carney , each of whom did the job in his spare time , while running important central banks ?
just as countries might want to wi pe out their debt and start anew , individuals might like to er ase their electronic past in a dramatic act of liberation .
the united states and the united kingdom took the lead on reform , and europe has been catching up .
when the world ’ s governments launch the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) this september , they will rightly put education for all children at the forefront , alongside ending extreme poverty , hunger , and death from preventable and treatable causes .
this framework would reduce incentives for using annual eu budget negotiations to advance political agendas .
united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon ’ s high-level advisory group on climate finance ( ag f ) , which we chaired , was established to identify practical proposals for how developed countries can mobilize this level of climate financing by 2020 .
a small shift of funds from wasteful us military spending , or a very small levy on tax havens ’ deposits – or similar measures to make the super-rich pay their way – could quickly and dramatically improve poor children ’ s life chances and make the world vastly fairer , safer , and more productive .
and , while germany is abandoning domestic production of nuclear energy for political reasons , we can bet that it will nonetheless continue to import electricity from france ’ s nuclear plants .
the hyper- speed of globalization 2.0 suggests the need for quick er triggers and wider coverage for worker retraining , relocation allow ances , job- search assistance , wage insurance for older workers , and longer- duration unemployment benefits .
in less than three years , this popular online resource has been transformed from a respectable american start-up to a shad y mos cow -based enterprise , co- owned by the kremlin ’ s favorite oligarchs .
moreover , the bush administration combined its policies with an extraordinary reluctance to veto anything coming out of congress , and , after the year or two that it took for this to become obvious , an inability to restrain congress at all .
putting public finances on a sustainable footing , they argue , is essential to reassure financial markets .
the problem is that private insurance markets do not work well when the bu yer knows much more about what is being insured than the seller .
in addition , the ecb could purchase e ib bonds on secondary markets , which would help to keep funding costs low – or even reduce them .
and then , perhaps , it could become the basis for a new bretton woods , functioning like an overarching clearing union of many different fiscal money systems .
for a long-term balance-sheet approach to gain traction , politicians will have to drop the ideological biases that are distorting fiscal policy .
in order to control inflation and real-estate bubbles , the central bank tightened monetary policy and the government ref rained from another round of fiscal stimulus .
fixing fixed- investment incentives
moreover , debt- fueled investment has been concentrated in highly cyclical natural- resour c es-based sectors that do not contribute to inclusive and sustainable growth .
what might be more interesting , however , is the response that such progress often elic its : “ this seems so obvious .
the condition of many humans – not to mention the human condition itself – will improve or worsen depending on how we use this opportunity .
for example , portugal ’ s gdp was expected to grow by 1 % this year ; in fact , it will contract by a stunning 3 % .
leading economists such as philip pe ag h ion have published excellent analyses of how this model could balance growth , equality , and overall satisfaction of citizens elsewhere in the world .
if the problem of equitable access is to be solved , authorities must fulfill their responsibility to the governed , which means listening , learning , and ultimately leading the effort to address it .
but even under the most optimistic scenarios , it will take time to engineer a global shift away from fossil fuels toward renewable energies and to restore the world ’ s badly depleted ecological infrastructure .
they can be successfully cultivated around the world , using whatever insec ts are available to pol lin ate them .
when asked why they failed to include this facility in their declaration of nuclear programs , north korean officials responded cheer fully – and absur dly – that it had been built from scratch only after the collapse of the nuclear negotiations in 2008 .
food or fuel ?
in many cases , governments will also need to design food- security programs such as social- insurance schemes and direct transfers that target the poor .
but there is no such consensus about how to address the food- security problem .
it would be hard for americans , who are neither very good at soccer , nor cur sed by great historical hat reds , to share the joy of the dutch , say , when the germans were defeated in 1988 , or that of the koreans when they defeat japan .
in fact , the french were harb ing ers of a kind . for something profound is changing in europe , slowly , painfully , but surely .
if these trends are not reversed , the result could be declines in fdi flows , and perhaps even the emergence of “ investment wars ” stemming from the over- politicization of foreign investment approv als .
to anyone paying close attention to the ongoing turmoil in the middle east , especially the weakening of many of its key nation-states and the rise of extremist violence , a severe crisis in the kingdom is no dar k- horse candidate .
the result is an increase in the cost of capital to firms , which lowers investment and exacerbates the crisis .
but , although asia is becoming more like europe in terms of economic integration , political and diplomatic integration lags behind .
this ambival ence can largely be explained by western and arab concern with the weakness and op acity of the syrian opposition ’ s political leadership .
the investment deficiency in asia relative to rates of a decade ago amounts to an annual shortfall of $ 400 billion a year , with the decline in investment in japan – a consequence of more than a decade of economic stagnation ­– accounting for more than half of the total .
the logic of intervention goes through cycles .
but coal is not the solution .
in july , the world ’ s governments will meet in addis ababa to hammer out a new framework for global finance .
harvard and many other universities ( including our own , columbia university ) have long been committed to acting as responsible investors .
citizens around the world are championing a vision of a better future – a future in which communities , not corporations , manage their natural resources and ecosystems as commons , and people consume less , create less toxic plastic waste , and enjoy a generally healthier environment .
the most successful , like human rights watch , amnesty international , and the ic g , have high vis ibility among policymakers , and produce analysis and argument that – whether publicly acknowledged or not – regularly becomes part of the currency of debate .
once we get there , we can go even further .
second , there must be push back against the common fat alistic view that progress is pre determined .
as a result , regional trade and economic integration have been stifled .
london – there has been a lot of fus s lately about the handful of muslim women who choose to ba the on french be aches wearing a special garment that covers the head ( not the face ) , and much of the body .
the fact is that the eu and the uk have more international clout together than separately .
they urgently need a common plan , not mutual re crim ination by german supply- siders and french demand- siders .
today , there is no longer international communism , or , for that matter , french communism .
the world has undergone massive economic deregulation , prescribed by the monetar ist doctrine supported by the conservative forces dominant in the developed countries of north america , europe , and the far east .
all french finance ministers lament that they had very little room for cutting costs , given the scope of entitlements , particularly civil servants ’ salaries and pensions .
such a development would be familiar in many european countries .
the influential report “ one market , one money , ” issued in 1990 under the leadership of the former french finance minister jacques del ors , called for the creation of a single currency , relying on the spec ious argument that the single market could not function well otherwise .
yes , these are dark times , and all politicians want to protect their voters .
and when the constitutional council does cen sure a law , it leaves parliament the time it needs to review the decision and bring the law into compliance with the constitution .
pre aching privatization and social repression , he has placed himself to the right of the right , hoping to take back the votes that the mainstream right has been losing to jean- marie le pen ’ s “ fasci sto id ” national front for the past 20 years .
eventually , she will be obliged to abandon her studied ambiguity , and she will probably pay a price for doing so .
the few african countries that do grow gm crops have re aped significant rewards .
paris – when françois hollande , fresh from his election as france ’ s next president , was asked by a journalist which language he would use when he meets us president barack obama for the first time , his answer was revealing . “ i speak english more flu ently than the former president , ” the socialist leader insisted , referring to the outgoing nicolas sarkozy .
such measures , designed to create jobs by freeing up work hours , are futile at best , and are often detrim ental .
establishing the stable balance of power needed to realize pence ’ s vision will require all of the region ’ s major democracies – from japan and india to indonesia and australia – to come together .
why this sharp change in tone ?
even in many well-functioning democracies , public authorities try to keep crowds away from official government buildings .
the conclusion pe ta wants us to reach is that both the holocaust and the mass confin ement and slaughter of animals are horrific .
instead , they focus on individual opportunity .
larger firms have the resources to exploit tax havens for profit- sharing and tax avoidance , whereas small - and medium- sized companies generally do not .
indeed , lev es on doubted whether the ip so is sufficiently different from its predecessor , the p cc , to have resulted in any “ real difference in behavior ” at all .
without that freedom , human progress will always run up against a basic road block .
“ this was pre med itated , ” he told the associated press .
there are plenty of honest people in all wal ks of life , and c roo ks as well .
this is foolish .
there would , of course , be costs .
to be sure , expanded trade holds great promise for promoting development and democracy .
second , more specific provisions on labor , the environment , gender equality , and indigenous rights are needed , as well as anti- trust , regulatory , and judicial reform provisions , for reasons both of principle and political expedi ency .
one factor is the willingness and ability shown by vladimir putin ’ s russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda .
now , at the very moment when one might expect a presidential candidate to tell the nation what he thinks of donald trump , vladimir putin , and islamic radicals , the socialist candidate , the wan ben o î t ham on , finds nothing better to talk about than legal marijuana , red slu dge , and end ocr ine disrup tors .
progressive economists love the french government for spending a staggering 57 % of gdp , compared to government expenditures of 44 % of gdp for germany .
then they set the price of liquidity as an administered price in normal times .
naturally , chirac immediately reaffirmed his faith in the french economic model .
nevertheless the challenges should not mask or defl ect attention from the opportunities .
by the start of the game , tens of thousands of young fans were on the square , many of them dr unk and ag itated .
it may also provide an economic spr ing board for another two billion people to fulfill their aspirations in the coming decades .
the eu ’ s “ high representative ” would str add le the european commission and the european council to look after foreign affairs and security , and the european parliament would have more power .
what is needed is a concerted effort to id en ­ tify the techniques of manipulation – and to name and shame those who use them .
but they are not .
but , unless they do , the emphasis on economic and political freedom that lies at the heart of liberalism may not survive .
what happens in gaza after israel leaves will have a profound impact on israeli politics .
their meaning , it seems , has become more , not less , deb atable with the passage of time .
of course , natural-resource companies will push back , emphasize the sanc ti ty of contracts , and threaten to leave .
for , although globalization sp ins off a lot more winners than losers , many people are worried , and worried people press their leaders to slow things down .
the leaders of the democratic revolutions in eastern europe quickly faded in the new environment .
cambridge – financial commentators have lik ened japan ’ s earthquake , tsunami , and nuclear catastrophe to derivatives ’ role in the 2008 financial meltdown . the resem blance is clear enough : each activity yields big benefits and carries a tiny but explosive risk .
but , more interestingly , the nuclear boom is not global : brazil is at the forefront in latin america , while the fastest development is occurring in asia , mostly in china and india .
that is a fortune for a poor family struggling to make ends meet .
consider los angeles .
the answer to this question will determine not just the geography of prosperity in the coming decades , but also what the balance of global economic activity will look like in 2030 or 2050 .
owing to the convenience and addic tiveness of smartphones and social media , many people now get news exclusively from online platforms like facebook .
distributing a burden between creditors and debtors is inevitably ac rim on ious , because it is a purely zero-sum game .
while new technologies reduce demand for low- to middle- skill workers in routine jobs , such as clerical work and repe ti tive production , they also raise demand for higher- skill workers in technical , creative , and managerial fields .
the g20 ’ s time for climate leadership
but some governments are not hes itating to make their own way .
to be sure , investments in infrastructure can serve real needs , helping meet an expected surge in the demand for food , water , and energy .
nonetheless , the report argues , the thousands of protectionist measures that still impede us exports in other countries may well give trump the excuse he needs to increase barriers of his own .
likewise , the oecd has warned that countries must move “ urgently ” and “ collectively ” to boost global growth prospects .
it is ironic that , at a time when many in the developing world are entering , or aspire to enter , the emerging middle class , wealth in much of the developed world is becoming more concentrated at the top .
we must also cement the fundamental reforms to the global financial system that the g-20 has delivered over the past seven years .
so i do my best to persuade my republican friends in congress that reducing the revenue loss from tax expenditures is really a way to cut government spending even though the deficit reduction appears on the revenue side of the budget .
governments must set themselves a firm four-year deadline to end fossil-fuel subsidies and redirect funding to areas like green infrastructure projects and development assistance .
instead , the keys to growth and development appeared to lie beyond an increase in capital intensity as measured by capital- output ratios : skills , education , technology broadly understood , and improvements in organizational management .
the w vs measures four revealing political and social values : support for democracy , readiness for civic engagement , obedi ence to authority , and support for patri arch al values that underpin discrimination against women .
in contrast to the original military intervention in iraq – which touched none of these bases – the current us action , though lacking security council authorization , is being taken at the request of the iraqi government , so there is no question of a breach of international law .
these arguments will continue .
this , too , has been accepted reasonably cal m ly , if not always quietly , by china , and has not undermined the continuing growth in bilateral economic relationships that every country in the region is developing with china .
third , and most important , there was widespread agreement about how consensus within the security council on the hardest cases might be recre ated .
mandela had long been my personal hero , from my student days in the 1960 ’ s , when – like so many others of my generation – i was an anti- apartheid activist .
london – the internet currency bitcoin is surrounded by uncertainty .
finally , although fuel subsidies are often mis lead ingly sold as a way to improve income distribution , the reality is more nearly the opposite .
sustained support for institutions like the global fund and gavi , for the empowerment of women and girls , and for innovation is crucial to accelerating progress for the world ’ s poorest people .
the collapse of hosni mubarak ’ s regime in egypt , the subsequent departure of the israeli ambassador from cairo , the political upheaval in syria , and the exp ulsion of the israeli ambassador from ankara are causing great uncertainty in israeli leadership circles .
i have no idea what that conclusion is actually based on — am i just reg urg itating the company line ? ”
electing and appointing more women to powerful roles remains essential .
people working informally often have no voice to demand better workplace conditions or pay , and this is especially true for women , who also face sexual harassment , violence , and restrictions on their reproductive rights .
but there is plenty that can – and should – be done to ensure that women ’ s voices are heard .
in many homes around the world , women are at the heart of the household 's nexus of water , food , and energy – and thus often know firsthand about the challenges and potential solutions in these areas .
some 2 24 million more women will need to gain access to formal financial services to close the gender gap completely .
can we really trust science to guide us , or do we reck lessly throw in our lot with technological “ silver bullets ” as the way forward ?
the alternative – “ r enting ” insurance from multilateral bodies like the imf – would demand ful fill ment of certain reform obligations .
given that no human species other than our own survives ( homo flor es i ens is disappeared about 18 ,000 years ago ) , the prospects for harmonious coexistence among future human species are not reassuring .
since then , the field of genetics has advanced significantly , particularly as a result of the global human genome project , which in 2003 identified all of the roughly 2 3,000 genes and three billion chemical base pa irs in human dna in order to screen for many rare diseases .
the promise of genomics is seemingly lim it less .
the distribution of compet ences between national and sub national levels , as well as the structure of taxation , was defined in a very different environment .
the iranian economy is a wrec k after years of international sanctions , and the government has not yet managed to take advantage of the nuclear deal it struck with the us to rebuild it .
overall , however , the administration ’ s foreign policy record compares favorably with that of any other modern us president or , for that matter , any other contemporary world leader .
budapest – across europe , millions are suffering from unemployment and the prospect of a long period of economic stagnation .
ukraine , with its high-quality human capital and diversified economy , is a potentially attractive investment destination .
as a result , the household sector has now shrunk to 35 % of gdp , and its forced savings are no longer sufficient to finance the current growth model .
it must learn to act as a benign hegemon .
all of that is now gra vely at risk - a dangerous turn of events .
georgia was the first post-soviet country to stage a “ color revolution , ” and thus to demonstrate , with dignity and maturity , its people ’ s choice for democracy and european values .
institu tionally , the eu has become germany wr it large .
martin sch ul z ’ s social democrats , on the other hand , favor raising public spending , by investing in infrastructure in particular .
even under the pressures of a globalized world , democratic systems that champion the rule of law are more resilient than the illiberal regimes that many – including some in europe – are pra ising nowadays .
to have an impact , citizens have always needed to appeal to – or bypass – the “ gat e keepers ” who decide which causes and ideas are relevant and worth amp lifying , whether through the media , political institutions , or protest .
a dismal silence greeted its publication , which left germany ’ s pro-european establishment isolated and dis pir ited .
they must also stabilize the welfare state at a time of rapid population aging .
a failed agreement would probably bring greater political instability , but it would ultimately strengthen german democracy .
its
politics is about perceptions , not raw numbers .
europe ’ s need to develop a twenty-first century security strategy is urgent , not only because donald trump ’ s america is unreliable , but also because humanitarian emergencies demand it .
a current-account deficit is not a straightforward indication of “ a bad deal , ” and a surplus is not necessarily a cause for celebration .
but this struggle to find common ground may prove useful for the wider eu , as its leaders attempt to strike a balance between the responsibility of member governments and the eurozone- wide institutions that the monetary union needs to function effectively .
in fact , far from viewing the current-account surplus as a policy problem , the german government sees it as a reflection of the underlying competitiveness of german firms .
instead , they t out protectionism and unilateralism .
the government need not address all obstacles to investment and innovation at once .
from my own v ant age point in germany , i ’ ve seen growing numbers of businesses seize the opportunity to tackle logistical and humanitarian challenges , offering services that help refugees rebuild their lives , while sharing the costs of infrastructure , technology , health care , training , education , and more .
she is also the most important , and the most sympathetic , partner for the uk government in the upcoming brexit negotiations .
even the leaks from these clos ed- door coalition talks were so well managed that they created the illusion that the “ s on di er un g sg es pr ä che ” – that is , the prepar atory talks among party officials – were politically rather harm less .
the only way that europe can escape from this trap is by acting in anticipation of financial markets ’ reactions , rather than yielding to their pressure after the fact .
he called on the eu to complete its banking union , establish a european finance ministry ( fully integrated into the commission ) , and expand the eu- level budget .
moreover , a german nuclear ambition might jeopardize the delicate balance of power in europe – including between germany and france , for example – with in calcul able consequences for the long-term cohesion of the european union .
then-president françois mitterrand did not want to move beyond the maastricht framework .
the change is evident by asking a single question : would it still be possible today to give up the d- mark and introduce the euro as a common currency ?
originally , europe ’ s monetary union was supposed to provide a stable framework for its deeply integrated economies to enhance living standards sustainably .
true , the campaign has brought out nu ances that may turn out to be important .
the new government that voters will most likely elect in september will be confronted with the difficult task of confronting germans with reality and pushing through the necessary reforms .
likewise , migration could affect per capita gdp growth .
if inflation remains low , the ecb might feel freer to pursue further rounds of monetary stimulus , undermining fiscal objectives further .
when a country speci alizes in a certain area , capital and labor move into that area at a rate faster than they move into other areas – indeed , the growth of export- related sectors may come at the cost of a decline in other areas .
and , of course , the left , which still counts large numbers of former st asi  personnel among its members , also calls for a re assessment of east germany itself ; many party veterans object to the term “ dictatorship ” for this phase of their lives .
unfortunately , this is not just a french or a german problem .
such self- help can be encouraged by policies ( which is what lu dwi g er hard , the father of the “ social market economy ” did in germany ) , but some starting capital helps .
a consum mate politician , renzi knows that this is a short path to electoral disaster .
to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades .
a new report published by the group of thirty argues that banks must do far more .
the plan was broadly endorsed , but no action was taken .
my own country , bangladesh , initiated the idea of a global compact specifically to improve migration governance .
standing up for multilateralism and international rule of law may not only be the morally right thing to do ; it is also in the interests of america 's allies and , ultimately , america itself .
it would be interesting to know what level of risk other leaders thought they were exposing us to , and what odds most citizens would have accepted , had they been asked to give their informed consent .
the kremlin refuses to publicly admit that today 's terrorism has its roots predominantly in the chechen war , which is now me tast asi zing throughout the northern caucasus .
some eurozone countries borrowed excessively and have been punished by the markets , perhaps deser v edly so , while others , in the resulting climate of anxiety , have become targets for speculators .
muhammad khatami ( 1997- 2005 ) tried to implement dramatic political reform , while ak bar hash em i raf san jani ( 198 9- 97 ) tried to open the iranian economy to the west .
my government will devise various measures to expand the scope of sou th- north dialogue and cooperation .
according to the conventional wisdom , britain ’ s social model is based on coexistence between different communities , with each continuing to observe its conventions and customs while respecting the country ’ s laws – an informal federation of communities .
and a lot less damage would have been done to the companies he once served so well .
fiscal discipline should be a priority , not an after thought .
in many cases , this is by far the most cost-effective option to ensure long-term water sustainability .
at the time , foreign assistance was about 0.5 % of rich-country income .
but this rebalancing , too , has not happened sufficiently , and if the advanced economies succumb to recession , nobody will escape .
individuals are entitled to benefits at age 67 based on their lifetime payroll tax payments , with the option to take ac tu ar ially reduced benefits as early as age 62 or to wait until age 72 with an ac tu arial increase .
but there is another aspect of ac ton ’ s dilemma besides the ethics of leaders : the demands of followers .
the diseases and injuries that cut lives short and caused widespread suffering were not rig or ously tracked .
but , so far , the eu has stood out more because the rest of the world is lagging than because it has designed a truly effective strategy to address the problem ; its recently concluded agreement could actually serve as a counter- model for next year ’ s summit .
but , by his second term , reagan had come to embrace international cooperation .
nevertheless , the amount of research and funding directed at solving the problem of domestic violence is tiny compared to what is spent in pursuit of international peace .
to ensure that a crisis produces such a constructive integr ative response , policymakers must change their mindset .
working within our existing means , it is surely possible to improve our policy tools and boost global growth and prosperity .
targeting liquid ity- constrained people , especially the unemployed , is a bit more effective , as well as humane .
starting our international cal end ar with the s end ai meeting on disaster- risk reduction sends a clear signal that the world is ready to integrate its strategies .
consequently , global economic expansion will slow , as no other major country is set to take over as the main engine of growth .
economists are rightly trained to treat unemployment as a lagging indicator , but these data can also be useful in forecasting the near future .
china ’ s government has committed to reform , but its efforts are lagging .
to escape this mess , four principles should guide the way .
the economic costs from the resulting panic , including a collapse of travel and trade , could be devastating .
during this period , two episodes , in particular , caused us and global equity prices to fall by about 10 % .
adam smith recognized long ago that perceptions of rigg ing will eventually undermine the legitimacy of any rules-based system .
to be sure , technology-driven growth carries some risks .
private domestic and foreign investment is influenced by a host of other factors that affect risks and returns . these include the skills of the workforce , the security of property rights and related legal institutions , ease of doing business ( for example , the process and time required for starting a business ) , and the absence of rigidities in its product and factor markets ( those for labor , capital , and raw materials ) .
the us has the necessary scale to absorb china ’ s surplus , and its inadequate infrastructure provides plenty of avenues for fruit ful investment .
these fiscal-policy failures have put too much of the burden on central banks , even though growth would more likely accelerate with productivity-enhancing supply-side measures .
statistics like these utterly dis prove the idea that global inequality is growing .
the record-high percentage of “ co ven ant- l ite ” new loans ( lacking many basic protections for the lender ) further attests to excessive risk-taking .
without the skills that a secondary education provides , the children who leave school early are condemned to poverty .
brid ging the gap between the public and private sectors is vital to finance the construction of an efficient global energy system .
economists disagree about the causes of this divergence .
in 1 16 of 140 countries assessed by un ep , the stock of natural capital that underpins value creation is in decline .
many are running macro imbalances , such as twin current account and fiscal deficits , and confront rising inflation and slowing growth .
on the contrary , economies worldwide are making progress in recovering from the 2008 disaster , and the us federal reserve ’ s tightening of policy last december signals that the global interest-rate cycle is moving into the next phase .
disparate tax rules among different countries have resulted in close to a zero-sum game for national governments , which are forced to pursue beggar-thy-neighbor policies to secure a bigger sl ice of a shrinking pie .
for example , the world trade organization ’ s agreement on application of san itary and ph y tos an itary measures ( the sp s agreement ) explicitly requires the use of scientific evidence when health concerns are at issue for imported goods .
who can doubt that us president donald trump will make a twitter pun ching bag out of any of them who da res criticize his administration ’ s planned retreat from open trade and leadership in multilateral financial institutions ?
as the global health community res ets its annual clock – and i begin catal og uing the big health stories of 2018 – we should take a moment to reflect on the 12 months recently ended .
there is more good news on the vaccine front : a her p es vaccine for sh ing les has been developed .
policymakers can also help find ways to reduce barriers to the development of stock markets , and to advance ideas for new kinds of state- contingent bonds , such as the gdp- linked bonds that yale ’ s robert sh iller has proposed . ( sh iller bonds , in theory , pay more when a country ’ s economy is growing and less when it is in recession . )
in fact , a limited amount of unemployment can help to promote development .
grappling with globalization 4. 0
indeed , comparative advantage – determined by the relative abundance of labor , natural resources , and capital endowments – is the foundation for competitiveness , which in turn underpins dynamic growth and strong fiscal and external positions .
american culture is now prominent , and it contributes to america 's attractiveness - its `` soft power '' - in many , but not all , areas .
living standards rise – and greenhouse-gas emissions follow , accelerating climate change .
this represents a sharp departure from the recent past , when globalization was widely regarded as a positive force .
the wto has rules intended to limit subsidies . a china- shaped trading system would , at a minimum , loosen such constraints .
many firms will be truly multinational , with headquarters located in one place ( probably where tax liabilities can be minim ized ) , production and sales happening largely elsewhere , and managers and workers sourced from all over the world .
while trump is often viewed as a uniquely american phenomenon , he is actually just one part of a broader revolt by nationalists and traditi onal ists against a liberal glob alist and cosmopolitan elite , in the name of a more relig iously and culturally rooted identity .
globalization mar ches on
the scandin avi ans figured this out long ago ; it was part of the social contract that maintained an open society – open to globalization and changes in technology .
it was an agenda written by and for large multinational companies , at the expense of workers and ordinary citizens everywhere .
globalization ’ s political fault lines
efforts to restrict people ’ s movement between countries expose the soft under bel ly of globalization : the deepening gap between countries ’ mean incomes .
the new ft t might still face political opposition in europe , especially in the united kingdom , with its large and influential banking sector , but at least the principle of greater tax fairness is high on the european agenda .
progress on this front must continue .
but the longer-term subject will be getting as many countries as possible into the global nato security network .
one powerful way to boost the world economy and to help meet future needs is to increase spending on key infrastructure projects , mainly directed at transportation ( roads , ports , rail , and mass transit ) , sustainable energy ( wind , solar , ge other mal , carbon- capture and sequ estr ation , and long- distance power transmission grids ) , pollution control , and water and sanitation .
such a turnaround has happened before .
similarly , the chemical weapons convention did not stop either saddam hussein or bashar al-assad from using chemical weapons against their own citizens .
given the current level of official resources at the disposal of the international monetary fund and the european union , spain now seems too big to fail yet too big to be bailed out .
from factory flo ors to government offices , bold measures are needed if the global south is to remain relevant to the global garment industry .
in silicon valley , for example , immigration has not led to a decline in wages or the return on skills .
what explains this unexpected turn of events , and what does it mean for future climate policy ?
eventually , faith in democracy and the market economy will erode , and the legitimacy of existing institutions and arrangements will be called into question .
our choices will result in different outcomes and different costs .
a new global warming treaty should mandate spending 0.0 5 % of gdp on r & d in the future .
reh em a has noticed changes in the weather .
twenty ?
the experimental data is forthcoming .
other iranian diplomats also are reportedly re signing from their posts and seeking asylum abroad .
emerging markets have remained buyers of gold , but at a s nail ’ s pace compared to their vor acious appetite for us treasury bonds and other rich-country debt .
good and bad capitalism
this ceiling can be raised only in a deep depression or other exceptional circumstances , allowing for counter-cyclical policy so long as it is agreed that the additional deficit is cyclical , rather than structural .
by 2011 , anti-globalization rhetoric had largely faded , and globalization is thought of as not something to be neither fought nor che ered , but as a fundamental characteristic of the human story , in which disparate geograph ies and diverse themes are inextricably intertwined .
there was a push to give money to iraq – a country rife with corruption – while other countries were accused of corruption without adequate hard evidence or specific details .
so the old partners need new ones .
cuba ’ s octo gen arian ruling brothers can not last forever .
someone in a gar age somewhere is gun ning for us , and 2015 could be the year that they make their move .
of course , a few african countries – such as algeria , nigeria , and egypt – might manage to buck the trend .
iraqi legislators are considering reducing the age for child marriage to nine .
for individual schools , the measures will include reinforcing security infrastructure , planning and response , training for staff , and counsel ing for students and community members .
having used these rights to raise our own living standards , we should not now put developed countries ’ workers in direct competition with workers who lack the basic freedoms needed to improve their own conditions .
the euro , meanwhile , suffered its own crisis .
paris – since the financial crisis erupted in 2008 , governments in advanced countries have been under significant pressure .
sometimes the risk entails the proverbial “ revol ving door ” between government and business , through which personnel gli de from senior private-sector jobs to top official posts and back again .
likewise , the british government spends markedly more of its budget on such intang i bles than on tangible assets .
routine ph ishing can affect any market , but our most important observations concern financial markets – timely enough , given the massive boom in the equity and real-estate markets since 2009 , and the turmoil in global asset markets since last month .
in the 1960s , japan ’ s “ income doubling ” plan helped it to develop a consumer economy .
they run and regulate health-care systems and primary , secondary , tertiary , and vocational education .
in this sense , israel ’ s water scarcity has made the country wealthier than it otherwise would have been .
grad ing obam anom ics
in 50 years , computers might be doing everything from driving tax is to performing routine surgery .
when mao zedong took power in 1949 , his immediate goal was to re-establish the “ greater china ” of the qing dynasty ( 16 4 4- 19 12 ) , insisting that the manch u -led empire was the permanent and enduring china .
with countries in asia , eastern europe , and latin american fearing that , having reached the international middle class , they could be stuck there , greece and argentina shed light on how that might happen .
a similar degree of complacency was evident in the united states before the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 .
though the creditors ’ logic was sound and their intentions laudable , the greek side believed that such a condition would amount to an affron t to their country ’ s sovereignty .
as greece and other eurozone countries have already learned , attempting to rush fiscal adjustment increases the debt burden , as the liquidity squeeze and concomitant uncertainty undermine output and reform efforts .
finally , the privatization fund at the center of the new program will do nothing to encourage structural reform .
easing greece ’ s debt burden while keeping the country within the eurozone is the correct and achievable path out of the crisis , and it can be accomplished easily through a mutual accord between germany and greece , to which the rest of europe will subscr ibe .
never mind mor al- hazard problems or insolvency .
moreover , the easier medium-term payments will be made contingent not only on growth , but also on new “ condi tion alities ” ( read : austerity measures ) imposed by the ( ren amed ) troika .
the political will of the eurogroup was to ignore our proposals , let the negotiations fail , impose an indefinite bank holiday , and force the greek government to acquies ce on everything – including a massive new loan that is almost triple the size we had proposed .
many of its citizens are hungry .
greece has also once again reminded us of how badly the world needs a debt- restructuring framework .
given this , the new greek government is entirely justified in questioning the terms that the country was given .
but the truth is that the recession in greece has little to do with an excessive debt burden .
by focusing the qe debate on risk-sharing , draghi managed to distract germany from an infin itely more important issue : the enormous size of the qe program , which completely defied the german taboo against monetary financing of government debts .
but the reality of the talks is very different .
if that meant that the eu would end up br ibing erdoğan with several billion euros in order to violate international legislation protecting refugees like sh abb ir , so be it .
new york – the greek euro tragedy is reaching its final act : it is clear that either this year or next , greece is highly likely to default on its debt and exit the eurozone .
on june 19 , i commun icated to the german government and to the troika an alternative proposal , as part of a document entitled “ ending the greek crisis ” :
meanwhile , the eurozone will likely be more open to foreign investment out of necessity , and cash- rich chinese companies should continue to pursue opportunities via fdi or corporate acquisitions .
why are european union leaders resisting the referendum and refusing even to extend by a few days the june 30 deadline for greece ’ s next payment to the imf ?
may they act in a way that prevents greece from ever having to face the true , tragic meaning of sunday ’ s vote .
many academic studies have found that the rate of convergence tends to be about 2 % per year .
greece ’ s creditors and partners , for their part , must provide the fiscal space needed for the reforms to work .
so far , the greek crisis has been treated as a recurring emergency , rather than the structural problem that it is .
the united states then let it be known that president barack obama and treasury secretary jack le w had been trying to convince german chancellor angela merkel and finance minister wolfgang schäuble to offer debt relief to greece , also without success .
but progress toward what ?
munich – after months of games and brinkmanship , and only a week after greek voters rejected the conditions for a € 7.5 billion ( $ 8. 2 billion ) rescue package , the end came swiftly .
apparently , varoufakis believes that his “ sophisticated grasp of game theory ” gives greece a crucial advantage in “ the complicated dynamics ” of the negotiations .
even after two bailout packages , it is unrealistic to expect greek taxpayers to start making large re payments anytime soon – not with unemployment at 25 % ( and above 50 % for young people ) .
berlin - “ it ’ s when the tide goes out that you find out who has been swimming naked , ” the legendary investor warren buffett ap tly remarked when the global economic crisis hit .
the story would have been very different if the need for substantial debt reduction had been accepted up front .
and greek banks and firms lose their creditworthiness alongside their government if markets perceive the latter to be insolvent .
the requirements of the latest rescue deal are the toughest yet – even tougher than those that greek voters overwhelmingly rejected in a referendum earlier this month .
moreover , instability would become chronic , because the eurozone would no longer offer a backstop for fiscal and financial la x ity .
after all , the private sector has long been regarded as an economy ’ s most important source of innovation .
new york – recent data suggest that the rate of contraction in the world economy may be slowing .
america ’ s fiscal and external deficits will not disappear just because the chief mag ic ian at the federal reserve waves his w and and says ab r acad ab ra .
defending his creation , volcker har ks back to a simpler time for the financial system , and refers to “ overly liquid , specul ation- prone securities markets . ”
new haven – it was inevitable .
a fully functioning monetary union also requires a central bank that is free to act as required to confront liquidity and confidence shocks , some mutualization of government debts , and centralized control over fiscal policy .
given this , china ’ s economic slowdown since the first quarter of 2010 has apparently been caused mainly by external and cyclical factors .
so do cross-border borrowing and lending through stock and bond markets .
rather than concerning themselves with how to balance growth and inequality , policymakers would do better to focus on how policies impact average incomes and other welfare indicators .
german voters bal k at any suggestion that we should limit the environmental damage caused by big and expensive cars . british voters line up behind the tr uck drivers when protests are launched against hikes in the price of petro l , not least through the introduction of higher energy taxes .
but the j ailing of liu also demonstrates in the star k est terms that china ’ s neglect of human rights is flowing to the rest of world alongside the mass of chinese goods .
work -and- retire or invest -and- retire visas , for example , would encourage exp ats to save and accumulate pension funds – thereby enabling them to contribute even more significantly to the region ’ s rapid economic growth .
third , the implementation of a wellbeing metric to guide policies would have the most rapid – and radical – effect at the national level .
greece , too , is turning over the re igns of government to an unelected , and supposedly apol iti cal , technocr at , luc as pap ad em os , a former vice president of the european central bank .
he even exagger ates it , if necessary .
t uc ker ’ s proposal makes good sense , but it is difficult – and arguably unethical – for charities that raised money to help haiti ans now to divert some of those funds to programs to mitigate the damage caused by future earthquakes .
likewise , foreign minister mahmoud al- z ah ar of the ham as -led government says that any dissolution of the government or call for early elections by abbas would be a recipe for civil war .
hamas has put pressure on all resistance groups in gaza to refrain from provoking israel .
egypt certainly does , having made it clear that a divided palestinian leadership without a public mandate , like the one to be delivered by new elections , will be unable to carry out serious negotiations or win popular support for any eventual agreement .
this is a very ambitious program , probably impossible to achieve .
in the us , chicken meat is wash ed in chlor inated water ; in europe , chickens are stu ffed with antibiotics while alive .
many people believe that they would be .
while other eu countries ’ total exports to the uk are double what the uk exports to the rest of the bloc , its exports to the eu amount to three times more as a share of its gdp .
but the broad range of proposed schemes to bolster resources for development assistance raises hard questions about the appropriate balance between objective needs and sound and effective financing .
these trends reflect a combination of technological and global market forces that have been operating over the last two decades .
while 44 countries were formally represented at bretton woods , the uk and especially the us were the dominant players .
the belief that a common currency and a common capital market would buttress financial institutions and deepen markets was a driving principle behind the eurozone ’ s formation .
but , instead of behaving like super stars , they worked together , passing consistently and creating opportunities for one another to score .
even the original advocates of imf involvement are turning against the fund .
even in the habit ually euro- skeptical united kingdom , prime minister david cameron has sought to boost his international credibility by highlighting his close ties with merkel , rather than by emphasizing the uk ’ s “ special relationship ” with the united states .
the conventional wisdom now holds that the world avoided a repeat of the interwar catastrophe , largely because policymakers made better decisions this time around .
europe ’ s western and eastern fring es obs ess about dates that recall their struggles with the core : 1914 , 18 15 , 17 0 9 , 17 0 7 , 17 0 4 , and 16 12 , among others .
but in the years since , the percentage has dropped – to 87 % in 2014 , and to 81 % in 2016 .
machiavel li ans , meanwhile , believe that the best way to interact with others is to tell them what they want to hear .
while fidel wrote doctr in aire articles in the official press , the armed forces took over politics and production .
here , may he w concludes that new derivative markets clearly increase the liquidity and quality of information in existing financial markets .
the demographic burden of a rapidly growing labor force appears to be greatly increased when that labor force is not very literate , especially when inadequate infrastructure , crime , and official corruption also take their toll .
we can begin by avoiding any new strain in relations between iran and the united states and , at the same time , endeav oring to eliminate inherited tensions that continue to mar relations between our countries .
clearly , on the nuclear issue , a return to the situation in 2003 is impossible .
that proved to be the case in turkey and pakistan in the 1990 ’ s and early 2000 ’ s , and later in much of the arab world .
that is why it makes sense now to focus on the most senior among us .
as the world ’ s population ages , the incidence of ncds is expected to rise , accounting for 52 million deaths annually by 2030 .
this situation is the direct result of a piecemeal and hur ried approach to investment in health-care infrastructure .
real health foods do not need to be made functional to be good for you . they are functional just the way they are .
as to the first , we must open up health programs and policies to meaningful public engagement .
healthy people , healthy cities , healthy economies
a vend or ’ s testim on ial that nine out of 10 , or 99 out of 100 , customers are satisfied with the results will hardly be convincing , because those who fail to improve will have less interest in participating .
fortunately , china ’ s government recognizes the need to pursue more stable , higher- quality gdp growth .
additional measures to improve vocational training or extend part-time work , for example , could prove to be invaluable .
proponents of austerity in germany , the us , and the uk are suspicious of central banks for the same ideological reasons they are averse to deficit- spending legislatures .
but the point of helicopter drops – or what former us fed chair ben bernanke recently called a “ money- financed fiscal program ” ( m ff p ) – is simply to distribute newly printed cash directly to consumers , such as through tax reb ates .
advocates of helicopter money rely on two claims .
the sheer size of these remittances , and their importance in keeping many millions of people above the poverty line , suggests that rich-country governments should take a careful look at the existing system .
more than 20 chemicals ( mostly containing copper and sul fur ) are commonly used in growing and processing organic crops – all acceptable under us rules for certi fying organic products .
but the low yields of organic agriculture in real-world settings – typically 20- 50 % below yields from conventional agriculture – impose various stresses on farmland and increase water consumption substantially .
the west ph alian principle of multipl icity will be critical , he believes , as it will be necessary to allow different countries and civilizations to operate on very different domestic principles .
the decisions that congress must make now will affect not only the us economy ’ s short-term prospects , but will shape the type of capitalism that we will have for the next 50 years .
these brave and dedicated women conduct their work despite great obstacles , including threats to their safety .
by 2013 , venezuela ’ s extravagant borrowing led international capital markets to shut it out , leading the authorities to print money .
the interest and expertise of the task force was limited to one branch of psychiat ry : neuro psychiat ry .
a growing number of people , inside and outside of the country , are starting to blame the revolution itself for der ailing an economy that was growing , reducing its extern al- debt burden , and maintaining a comfortable cushion of international reserves .
so , today , the second school of thought is ascend ant .
london – as the united kingdom ’ s brexit negotiations stum ble on , other european countries are using the period of uncertainty about the future regulation of the continent ’ s financial markets to temp t firms and activities away from london to rival centers .
or perhaps the wall will become part of a showdown over how the debt ceiling for the federal government should be raised , with the deadline for doing so also likely to come around the end of september .
still , there persists an idea that i can not push out of my head , and that i enter into the travel journal that i am writing for the atlantic .
from dhaka , clinton made the short journey to india ’ s west beng al , where her host was the dimin u tive chief minister mam ata ban er je e , whose election ended 34 years of communist rule in the state .
she made asians look at america anew .
until now , nuclear- weapon states ’ national governments and bureaucracies have preferred to limit the disarmament debate to symbolic measures that imply no dead lines or additional legally binding obligations .
this was a major step toward fairer elections , as the judges ’ professional union has remained fairly independent over the past half-century of executive power grabs .
a brief history of ( in ) equality
that diplomatic project is far from absurd .
but this month , research published in the lanc et up ended our pessimism .
in this way , a substantial part of the money they had raised would go to the most effective charity in each category , while simultaneously encouraging transparency and rigorous evaluation .
the netherlands need not be the focus of international religious conflict . what is precious must be preserved , and what enrich es must be absorbed .
this phenomenon comes as no surprise to economists .
ten years after the guiding principles were signed , the time for exc uses and inaction has run out .
in san francisco , mar c ben i off , chairman and co- ceo of sal es force ( one of the city ’ s largest employers ) , supports a proposed tax on gross business receipts to combat hom elessness , though mayor london breed , a democrat , and other tech employers ( including twitter ) oppose the measure .
the vac ation- home boom appears psychologically tied to the urban home- price bubble in many of the world ’ s “ glam our cities , ” and prices of these vacation homes are similarly vulnerable to a significant drop in coming years .
in some islamic nations – afghanistan , iran , iraq , saudi arabia , and yemen , for instance – so dom y is a crime for which the maximum penalty is death .
the goal is to encourage job creation in sustainable industries while reliev ing urban congestion in the capital .
britain needed to determine how best to establish a constructive relationship with a china intent on weapon izing trade , while standing up for the rights and promised freedoms of hong kong ’ s people .
their hopes are for a peaceful and prosperous life in which they can enjoy the freedoms and rule of law that they were promised .
this plays into the hands of the chinese communist party and its sto og es in hong kong .
none of this benefits future development .
so anyone who invests in coal now does so at his or her peril .
i have been arguing for four years that our business- cycle problems call for more aggressively expansionary monetary and fiscal policies , and that our biggest problems would quickly mel t away were such policies to be adopted .
the same thing is true of international arrangements and institutions , whose survival depends on the willingness to defend them .
widening the scope of the next round of negotiations so that much more can be used as bargaining chips would make the job of the negotiators considerably harder .
second , the 7 0- year period that began with the widespread diffusion of the automobile – during which one could get nearly anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in half an hour or less – is over .
key me does not actually use 3d printing ; it cuts them out of blan ks the “ traditional ” way , but uses the same kind of electronic design representation that a 3d prin ter would .
brexit , voice , and loyalty
during the past three decades , income inequality in the united states has increased significantly ; indeed , the us now has the four th- highest level of income inequality in the oecd , behind chile , mexico , and turkey .
syrians need to understand what their country will look like in the future , so that all sides can see a solution that can be secured through negotiation rather than violence . ”
this year ’ s wild card , bil led as the financial center most “ likely to become more significant ” in the near future , is cas abl anc a .
eurozone growth remains sluggish , at 0.7 % over the last year , while unemployment , at 1 1.7 % , is unacceptably high .
a version of the vic kers commission ’ s recommendations , which is somewhat more flexible than its members proposed , is in a banking bill currently before parliament .
how brazil broke loose
given southeast asia ’ s growing economic importance , the implications of this trend could not be weigh tier .
there is , however , one un break able rule : to work with hic cup , communities must collect and publish a lot of independently ve tted data ( without personal information , of course ) .
should they lean toward the center or focus on mobilizing young , progressive , and enthusiastic newcomers ?
to be sure , the weaker dollar has forced some american families to spend their vac ations in the us instead of europe .
but it would not differ fundamentally in structure or approach from today ’ s economics .
there would then scarcely be any need for engineering schools .
the claim s ounded credible until the subsequent survey showed that the area ’ s crude mortality rate had actually risen to six times the normal base rate .
the crackdown has involved 8 0,000 arrests , 17 0,000 fir ings , the closure of 3,000 schools , dor mit ories , and universities , and the dismiss al of 4, 400 judges and prosecutors .
this would provide strong protection against moral hazard .
when it comes to preparing for the future , one exceptionally large project lies ahead : the energy transition .
in the us , though , there have been strong political forces ar ra yed against direct redistribution in recent years .
similar motives dictate reserve accumulation in other emerging markets .
those with bitter memories of japanese behavior half a century ago should be reassured ; this debate is about how to defend peace , not about how to promote or wage war .
while qaddafi delivered terrorists to mubarak , the egyptian president declined american requests to do the same . after palestinians in 1985 hijacked the italian ship ach ille la uro , killed an american , and ber th ed in egypt , the us asked mubarak to ex trad ite them . but mubarak refused , saying that secretary of state george sh ul tz was “ crazy ” if he believed that egypt would betr ay the palestinian cause .
bush failed to get that combination right .
america can not realistically expect its allies – let alone countries like iran and venezuela , with which its relations are strained – to adopt principled foreign policies when middle east realpolitik distor ts its own foreign policy .
even in the philippines , where the people power revolution overthrew fer din and mar cos in 1986 , voters have just elected as their president rodr ig o du ter te , an av owed populist strongman and trigger - happy warri or against drug lords .
and misplaced regulation – for example , in the service sector – remains a barrier to healthy competition in many countries .
but there is an even more insidious problem brewing on the home front .
now even the last holdouts among the regime ’ s opponents will be appearing on the roads of europe .
there are many reasons for the disparity ; but a critical one is the absence in the us of labor laws and union rules that prevent employees and firms from adapting to the new technologies .
these deaths are largely driven by a few risky behaviors : tobacco smoking ( second in the global ranking of risk factors ) , alcohol use ( ranked third ) , obesity and poor nutrition ( ranked sixth and seventh , respectively ) , and physical in activity ( ranked tenth ) .
whether climate change will be a source of yield uncertainty in the coming decades remains unclear as well .
americans can not do anything they want , but little can be done without us leadership or active participation .
the muslim brotherhood , by contrast , was systematically changing the constitution and taking control of the commanding heights of the state in order to make it impossible for its rule to be challenged .
as for the asian west , japan will continue to remain alone and unique .
in the midst of all that pain , it is tempting to point fingers .
the international monetary fund , for its part , has created a new liquidity facility , enabling countries that pre- qualify to apply and get funds with little or no conditionality .
in any case , the scope for tax increases is severely limited in an economy that is shrinking quickly .
the obama administration is promising to pick up losses to persuade hedge funds and other private investors to buy out banks ’ bad assets .
but perhaps there is another path , one that accepts the authority of national governments , but aims to re orient national interests in a more global direction .
given that spirit – and appropriate foreign assistance – i am confident that it will all work out for burma , too .
both sides need to find a solution ; yet , despite emerging victorious from the cold war , the west seems not only to have lost the peace , but is on the verge of re- dividing europe .
the broader question is whether women have the same opportunities as men to participate in labor markets in the first place .
to prevent that , we seek to shore up our current intention to lose weight .
but we can better achieve our objectives under an eu framework that supports , rather than impedes , national action to boost growth and employment .
but the last leg of the journey – to mecca itself – remained a monopoly of the cam el- owning be dou in .
until then , markets will keep pressure on sovereign spreads , making a self-fulfilling crisis likely .
first , the banking system .
its economic situation is dire – a direct result of populist policies initiated by rousseff ’ s predecessor , president luiz inácio lula da silva , and which she maintained .
entrepreneurs need to face competition in order to develop , whereas individuals who are laid off may have difficulties getting back into productive work .
if we can make these changes – and one should not minimize the scale of the task – perhaps when g-20 leaders meet in the future , they will not think that their citizens have little interest in the outcome . instead , they will have a political mandate to attend meaning fully to the welfare of the global economy .
he was a vul gar up start , whose man ners might not have been the fin est , but surely they would be able to control him .
how trump would weaken america
but the emergence of an increasingly educated population has also intensified the need for more skilled jobs .
they have made these technologies an integral part of their lives , but their relationship to science has remained distant .
all the other aw ful pressures that are driving so many women into bankruptcy will still exist , but at least more women will be facing these pressures with their eyes wide open , and , one hopes , with many better options .
chávez turned pd v sa into a personal fi ef dom and used it as a cash cow ; many of his social programs were funded directly from the company ’ s budget .
approximately 80 % of the audience answered “ no . ”
massive as they are , however , the dollar figures do not reflect the true costs of air pollution .
but when it comes to natural justice – and in particular , the frameworks guiding decisions – the record is decidedly mixed .
evidence suggests that language originally evolved to reduce the costs , increase the accuracy , and expand the domains of teaching .
in any case , it is clear that happiness is not dictated by one ’ s job title or bank balance .
still , not all of ai ’ s implications for the future are so obvious .
scientific research – and biomedical research in particular – largely resembles a race .
a g 10 , comprising the world ’ s major democracies , could coordinate on values alongside the existing g20 ( which includes non- democracies such as china , russia , and saudi arabia ) , with its focus on economic issues .
policies aimed at ensuring export-led growth also include export subsidies and barriers to imports .
in their view , anyone who ab ides by a country ’ s laws can become a full-fledged citizen and contribute to the vitality of his or her adopted country .
policies that encourage ict adoption are the right choice for long-term and inclusive economic growth .
now , following research conducted at cer n , the spraw ling par tic le- physics laboratory near geneva , the hunt may soon be over .
in september 1938 , before all of these advances , a hurricane devastated much of new england .
the montreal protocol was established to repair the ozone layer , which protects all life on the planet from deadly levels of ul tra viol et ra ys .
the australian government strongly opposes wh aling , yet it permits the killing of millions of k ang ar o os each year – a slaughter that involves a great deal of animal suffering .
moreover , free-trade zones bring greater competition , including from foreign firms , which raises risks of increased unemployment and capital flight .
the best path forward for the us is to offer more car rots for ukraine , rather than more sticks for russia .
in many ways , the cold war made things easier for us presidents .
but does this really mean that the british ra j should have lasted longer ?
it was only when deng xiaoping opened the door to trade with capitalist countries that anti-japanese sentiments were deliberately stir red up .
to be sure , the us military presence still imposes a certain order with which most parties can live ; but it risks dragging the world ’ s largest military power into petty regional conflicts , a prospect that should alarm us one century after 1914 .
then there is the matter of a host country ’ s un consci on able laws , which can make an international sporting contest appear un seem ly .
most japanese , he arti ly sick of war and military bullying , were happy to go along with all of this .
he has ended the war in iraq and soon will end the war in afghanistan .
the trouble with europe
nowadays , the world ’ s most pressing challenges – from climate change to cyber- crime – increasingly transcend national borders , making them extremely difficult to address effectively .
but that was not the reason the most conservative republicans rejected it .
there is no humane slaughter requirement for wild fish caught and killed at sea , nor , in most places , for farm ed fish .
ignoring the storm
hitler famously quipped that while the bolshev i ks had nation alized the means of production , the nazis had gone further by nation alizing the people themselves .
other elected leaders in latin america have been cur iously tolerant of these anti-democratic practices .
they sell their system of “ illiberal democracy ” on the basis of pragmatism , not some universal theory of history . these leaders claim that they are simply more effective at getting things done .
on november 29 , 2016 , it was announced that the s & p / cor el og ic / case- sh iller national home price index ( which i co- founded with my este em ed former colleague karl e. case , who died last july ) reached a record high the previous september .
try searching youtube , for example , on greenland ice .
like traditional myths , such graphic , shared images embody fears that are deeply entrenched in our psych e .
the imf is the body best suited to serve as a trusted adviser and an effective conduc tor of the global policy orchestr a .
when a country requires assistance , it is tempting for lenders to insist on a long list of reforms .
rapid fiscal adjustments drive structural reforms , which lead to faster economic growth .
that trend has leveled off recently , but the implications are still with us .
so , in defiance of overwhelming evidence , the imf now wants to target the remaining sector , pensions , where massive cuts – more than 40 % in many cases – have already been made .
the savings for greece would be huge .
when lagarde took the helm in july 2011 , she inherited an institution in crisis .
removing the link between them would require the support of the us administration , but not ratification by congress .
in normal times , fiscal policy would support monetary policy , including by playing a redistributive role .
there is one more prerequisite for sustainable growth : relative peace and security .
ox for d / shanghai – many of the immigration debates now raging around the world reflect the faulty assumption that admitting immigrants is an act of largesse – and a costly one , at that .
similarly , angola and brazil have reversed the brain drain and are receiving large flows of immigrants from their former colonial ruler , portugal .
moreover , it has been eigh teen months since the virus was last detected in africa .
there are a few lessons to be learned from all of this .
first , the committee explicitly discussed whether the capital market would suffice to impose fiscal discipline on the currency union ’ s members , and agreed that a system of rules was needed .
im potent america ?
in some places , such measures have already been introduced .
can it be done ?
perhaps more significant , given the central role of the united states in asian security , any dispute with china could quickly escalate .
because low-income countries rarely have enough money to implement needed education reforms , pooling public and private resources is an attractive alternative .
the check list also encourages the media to report on gender differences in disaster risk and vulnerability .
another example is to be found in peru , where more than 30 financial institutions chose a similarly unconventional path to profitability , working together to establish mod el o per ú  – a platform that provides digital financial services .
that reflected the substantial progress italian prime minister mario monti ’ s government had already made .
when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bank able projects is often very difficult because many difficul t- to- coordinate public-sector decisions or actions are involved .
at the back end , experts in education , roads , electricity , water , and health care design and analyze project loans .
should expectations suddenly change , the herd might turn and run in the opposite direction , causing co2 prices to soar .
but this recognition has yet to penetr ate fully the approach to economic growth that most economists and policymakers take .
but on another level , these trends may actually be healthy , as they bring concerns about globalization , structural transformation , and governance – which have so far been expressed mainly in the streets – into the political process .
a modern firm is a network of people with different expertise : production , logistics , marketing , sales , accounting , human- resource management , and so on .
and social expenditure ( again treating pensions as deferred consumption ) is also twice as large in brazil : 16 % versus 8 % of gdp .
of course , capturing this surplus may allow for income redistribution , as many suggest ; but a much bigger and sustainable bang can be achieved if the proceeds go instead to financing inclusion .
without it , the number of children living in poverty in 2013 would have been about 25 % larger .
this is where the capacity for action comes in .
of course , elections alone do not a democracy make .
the security council ’ s decision to refer the situation in darfur to the icc prosecutor in march 2005 was itself a major milestone in the battle against impunity .
by bringing the world ’ s top players to india at unprecedented salaries ( one australian player was auc tioned to his new team for $ 1.4 million , more than most cr ic ke ters previously earned in a lifetime ) , and by sp icing up the game through such innovations as american cheer leaders , the ip l is transforming the sport .
but who will benefit from that wealth , and who might be put at risk ?
in this telling , this sor did saga of assault on hindus culminated in the 1947 partition of india by the british , which created pakistan .
those are laudable objectives .
in the state of gujarat , four dal it you ths caught sk in ning a cow were stripped , tied , and beaten with iron ro ds by cow vigil antes who accused them of killing the animal ( they had not ) .
despite not even having been released , “ pad ma v ati ” has already inspired countless front- page stories and debates on the evening news , hyster ical threats of violence , and a ban in four states governed by india ’ s ruling bharatiya janata party .
should search -and- rescue aircraft and vessels be stationed in the vic inity ?
long qu eu es sn aked in , out , and around banks , foreign-exchange counters , and at ms – anywhere where people might exchange the so on- to- be - def unc t notes .
but , in forming an opinion , a few facts should be kept in mind .
sentiments that we take for granted in the opinion pages of newspapers rarely find their way into b oll ywood block bu sters .
it gets worse .
fulfilling these ambitions will require effici ency- boosting investments , particularly in infrastructure .
given that the one government the pakistani taliban hate more than pakistan ’ s is india ’ s , the idea that they were doing india ’ s bidding on pakistani soil is both grotesque and fat uous .
when modi came to power , foreign observers lauded him as just the kind of decisive , business -minded economic reformer that india needed in order to fulfill its massive potential .
the result has been disturbing , to put it mil dly .
india has voluntarily provided help when its neighbors have been similarly afflicted , such as after earthquakes in nepal , pakistan , and iran , and floods in bangladesh and myanmar .
although his speeches and sound b ites continue to im press fans of his h indi  or atory , the gap between rhetoric and reality wid ens by the week .
india will need to improve its education system dramatically , both at the secondary and tertiary level , and make similarly large advances in basic sanitation ( not to mention implementing my review 's recommendations for combating amr ) .
but perhaps marg ar ine might have suited india ’ s vege tarian tastes better .
rather , they are reminding the public that the worldview to which faith is allied is comprehensive , and that it demands adherence to a larger political project that prescr ibes beliefs and behaviors that actually have little to do with religion .
less than two months later , however , the two countries were exchanging artillery fire across the border , with modi instruc ting the indian army to respond disproportionately to pakistani provocations .
such multi- jurisdic tional efforts require strong coordination and a stable vision , which china ’ s hierarch al governance system provides .
moreover , the economic impact of “ super bu g ” outbreaks could top $ 100 trillion ; low-income countries would suffer disproportionately .
pr ab hu 's most impressive promise – to raise $ 140 billion from market lenders – is also his most problematic , as he has failed to clarify how exactly the railways would repay the loans .
given these developments , india may simply sk ip the hyper market stage and go online , just as it sk ipped fixed- line teleph ony and went mobile .
the attacks were an operation that must have required months of planning : serious weapons were deployed , a small army was mobilized , targets were studied , transport was organized , and weak points identified .
everyone list ens half a wake for the dreaded kno ck on the door .
india will continue to balance del ic ately on its tibetan tigh tro pe .
but gestures can not be a substitute for real action , or for the hard work that is necessary to empower all indian women .
instead of providing quality elementary education for all , our policymakers are more concerned with enacting cast e- based measures aimed at short-term political gains .
at a time of global crisis , the world should celebrate this new burst of energy .
the inability of india ’ s current political system to provide effective government places the country in a different category : a non-performing state .
clean energy at a time of global warming is obviously necessary . but so is the safety and security of humans , animals , and plants .
this year , india ’ s h oc key players failed even to qualify for the games .
india stops turning the other che ek
after all , the current government is possibly the most corrupt , in every sense , that india has ever experienced .
india 's new government is led by a ver itable `` dream team '' of international development .
in this environment , a cash scarcity is economically crippling .
as the urbanization process continues , connectivity , proximity , and diversity will accelerate knowledge diffusion , spark further innovation , and enhance productivity and employment growth .
delhi 's cleaner air has n't cost much , yet other cities have been slow to follow suit .
ida ’ s transitional support to india is scheduled to end in 2017 .
the ground holds pe at – den se organic matter in the process of becoming coal .
in many oecd countries , redistributive policies , like tax breaks and expansion of welfare benefits , have helped reduce inequality .
for many people , the competition for land is a fight for survival .
thus , the lesson from economic history and development is straightforward : government support aimed at upgrading and diversi fying industry must be anchored in the requ isite endowments .
even the four “ asian tigers ” – hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan – which had previously grown “ with equity , ” have lately faced rising inequality .
thus , the primacy of luck as a determinant of wealth means that there is no moral justification for economic inequality .
in one important way , however , their situations are very different .
this contributed to voters ’ rejection of establishment politicians , enabling the victory in 2016 of us president donald trump , who has since placed voter frustration in the service of enacting policies that may only exacerbate inequality .
but those numbers are changing , as the internet enables creative new business models that increase not only a market ’ s efficiency but also the utilization of our various assets . hundreds of experiments are being conducted .
prior to the twentieth century , leaders were remote figures who rarely made direct contact with the masses .
similarly , president donald trump ’ s tweets that prove to be demonstr ably false undercut american credibility and reduce its soft power .
the central bank ( pboc ) initially attributed it to excess liquidity , and so began to use monetary policy tools , raising interest rates five times since late 2007 .
with good communication policy , inflation expectations can be contained , and inflation can be brought down as quickly as necessary .
another possibility is that the world 's major central banks are actually more concerned about real growth and employment , and are using low inflation rates as an excuse to maintain exceptionally generous monetary conditions .
gu ten berg ’ s printing press was important to the origins of the protestant re formation and the ensuing wars in europe .
the problem is compounded when consent is obtained just hours before a major operation , and months after the last consultation with the surge on .
the size of the pie is huge , and so are the opportunities for private investors .
particularly important is the capacity to develop strong project pipelines and institutional frameworks for public-private partnerships .
dozens of their mutations are associated with an increased risk of hereditary breast and o var ian cancer .
in many other states , voters have approved public financing of elections , the adoption and preservation of medicaid expansion , and marijuana legalization .
as a result , emerging countries , according to the imf , have been pressed to carry “ a disproportionate burden of demand rebalancing since the crisis . ”
some years ago , i calculated how many units of product need to be sold to launch a technology .
after all , who can seriously doubt that innovation is progres sing rapidly ?
gender bias , too , is a limiting factor ; nearly every mena economy fails to empower female employees and executives fully .
fifth , there is a fundamental link between institutions and psychology .
but the costs of moving into a non- defaul ting environment are high .
it is expected that , by 2020 , more than half of african households – almost 130 million – will have discretionary income to spend ( or save ) , up from 85 million today .
financial sanctions , direct and indirect , already are b iting – including on the revolutionary guard and its significant economic interests – but have been tolerable in the context of asserting iran ’ s “ right to enrich ” under the npt .
if there is a more complicated neighborhood in the world , it would be difficult to find it .
as long as us assets were attractive to residents of surplus countries ( or there was an acceptable chain of investments from surplus countries that ended in the us ) , these accum ul ations of reserves were sustainable .
there would be clear rules and decision-making mechanisms for both sets of countries , subject to democratic votes by a two- tier european parliament .
high- trade countries are not small- government countries : it is just the opposite .
sounds good , but there were roughly 200,000 homes that were either severely damaged or destroyed , so the total amounts to less than $ 40,000 per home – far below what was needed .
the practice is similar to tu dor england ’ s grants of royal patent monopolies , which were used to repl en ish the king ’ s coffers .
the widespread adoption of today ’ s stringent ip protection is also historically unprecedented .
ideas are the most important input into research , and if intellectual property slows down the ability to use others ’ ideas , then scientific and technological progress will suffer .
furthermore , helping the us to achieve healthy and sustainable growth would bring about an indirect boost to their own economies .
fortunately , no one was killed during those protests .
as a result , no additional liquidity is created .
but , thanks to the international olympic committee , the games are also about something much dar ker .
the global economy will do better if the major countries – each afraid to undertake fiscal expansion on its own , for fear of worsening its trade balance – agree to act together to pull it out of recession and up to speed .
in short , the growing , bloody challenges of the twenty-first century are to be confronted by a too th less un , a morally weakened us , and a europe well on the path toward disarmament .
that is why a group of public intellectuals from around the world has created the independent commission for the reform of international corporate taxation ( ic ric t ) , which i chair .
these groups face particularly high barriers to internet connectivity , beginning with inadequate infrastructure , including poor mobile internet coverage or network access and unreliable electricity supply .
this gap can not be closed overnight , but countries that do nothing to overcome it could very well fall behind .
each new platform was easier to use and more convenient .
against this background , it seems likely that new regulations will be initiated largely by individual states , which will have to answer difficult questions .
countries that abuse , or try to abuse , interpol ’ s systems , must also be held to account .
“ the responsibility to protect ” ( col lo qu ially known as “ r2p ” ) held countries accountable for their people ’ s welfare and compelled the international community to intervene when governments failed to protect civilians from mass atrocities – or were themselves threatening civilians .
three ways to improve child health
china ’ s rulers know that in a system in which justice is absent , liu ’ s efforts to speak to a higher moral calling requires only moral courage to be followed .
so , in the spirit of tolerance : happy christmas , whether you are jewish , muslim , hindu , si k h , athe ist , agn os tic , consum er ist , or christian .
and if bo eing were not already reining in its dre am liner model ’ s vast global supply chain , it would now be scram bling to do so even faster .
the cost-benefit analysis helps to ensure that excessive optimism does not lead to wasteful spending .
in fact , the report argued that if the un lim it ed- growth pathway was chosen , it would require complementary policies ( including funding ) to preserve the planet ’ s fin ite life- support systems .
and staying below the 1.5°c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer cases of deng ue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and less food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns .
iran also doesn ’ t “ play well with others . ”
it is not difficult , however , to determine which one is preferable .
iran has always been ke enly aware of the multiple risks involved in crossing that red line .
to get there requires , above all , replacing war ( including the cia ’ s secret wars ) with commerce and other forms of peaceful exchange .
at this point , however , there are no indications that iran is interested in more than reducing external pressure and the impact of the sanctions .
there can no longer be any reasonable doubt that iran ’ s ambition is to obtain nuclear weapons capability .
yet iran ’ s biggest problems in syria are the united states and israel .
but , given that it is in everyone ’ s interest to ensure that developments he w more closely to the reform - oriented path , it should be clear to all that the diplomatic work with regard to iran is far from complete .
an agreement should also be followed by sustained political engagement on other mutually important issues .
this assessment assumes that the monitoring called for in the accord will detect any iranian non- compliance early enough to enable a coordinated international response , particularly the re introduction of sanctions , before iran could acquire nuclear weapons .
therefore , according to obama , the iranians have “ their own security concerns and their own narratives . ”
there is also the danger that iran will fail to comply with parts of the agreement and undertake prohibited work .
so it is not surprising that the deadline for a final deal has been extended once again .
while a large majority of iranians want to make am ends with the us , for iran ’ s hardliners , enmity toward the us has become a central part of the islamic republic ’ s identity .
recent events seem to suggest that many young iranians doubt if rouhani can deliver greater prosperity and a more moderate version of islamist rule than that offered by his hardline rivals .
if an agreement is reached , existing sanctions can be reduced ; if iran ’ s leaders refuse to bud ge , new sanctions could be introduced .
in some cases , stabilization has been accompanied by ruthless political repression .
still , while trump was in the middle east , the us congress began considering a new round of sanctions to punish iran for its continued meddling in syria , and for its support for groups deemed to be terrorist , such as hezbollah .
since salman bin abdul aziz al saud ’ s accession to the throne in january 2015 , the kingdom ’ s principal strategic aim has been to roll back iran ’ s influence – with or without us help .
in fact , iran ’ s leaders continue to der ide israel from af ar , calling the country an “ insult to humanity , ” or a “ tumor ” in the region that must be eradicated .
new york – the recent united states national intelligence estimate ( nie ) , which reports that iran once had a “ nuclear weapons program ” but suspended it in 2003 , means that there will probably be no american attack on iran during the bush administration .
former president khatami ’ s initial decision to run for the post again grab bed the international community 's attention .
ahmadinejad ’ s “ vision ” at the un could be dismissed as political posturing if it weren ’ t for a string of similar statements and actions that suggest he believes that he is destined to bring about the “ end times ” – the end of the world – by paving the way for the return of the shia muslim messi ah .
its standoff with the west over its nuclear program , together with its ties to syria and its growing influence in lebanon and iraq , suggest the emergence of a strong regional power .
our efforts to establish a regional security and cooperation arrangement in the persian gulf date back to 1986 , at the height of the war with iraq .
he is afraid of the humanities , books , arts , universities , satellites , the internet , and even mobile phones .
indeed , in mas had on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there were some rumors that i support a special candidate for the presidential elections .
nonetheless , the willingness of large numbers of people to stand up ( or sit in ) for their right to be heard , despite the imminent possibility of violent repression , announ ces to their fellow citizens and the world that something has gone very wrong .
during the first world war , however , japan was reluctant to send troops to europe despite repeated requests from the allies .
the kurds of iraq have made their preference known ; it is neither fair nor sustainable to refuse to take their goal seriously .
on the anniversary of the september 11 attacks , a unit of the new york city police department was helping out in new orleans , and the city returned a fire engine that new orleans had earlier donated as a symbol of solidarity .
the reality is that iraq ’ s future is not assured even if these and similar measures are taken .
to believe that sectarian fighting started because of a foolish us decision , and ended because of a subsequent wise one , is to ignore the role of sectarianism in a country that str add les the sunni and shia worlds and the turk ic and arab worlds .
they are ignorant , poor , and sick .
by contrast , the weak national iraqi defense forces are believed to be doing the bidding of the shia majority .
the employees of the state-owned enterprises still receive pay checks , even though about a third of their work places have been destroyed .
in sum , the national government will lack both the authority and the means to govern iraq .
evidence is mounting that america ’ s war in iraq has killed tens of thousands of civilian iraqis , and perhaps well over one hundred thousand .
one of these rules is that governments can not offer aid to some companies that is not available to others .
and a decade earlier , sweden , norway , and finland experienced property- price declines of 30- 50 % .
to be sure , monarch s – and especially their sp ous es , heirs , and relations – often car ve out nic hes for themselves , from wildlife protection to sports and charities .
for the eu , irish rejection of the treaty would probably trigger a lengthy period of instability , and perhaps even an end to the european integration process as it is now constituted .
the latin word for this ability was pover t as , or “ poverty ” in english .
but the authorities may have the upper hand .
banks serve a special function in the economy that does warrant a special role for the government : not in setting pay , but in imposing effective capital requirements .
nor could monetary policy help very much .
this , then , is greenspan ’ s second legacy : growing doubt about central bank independence .
this is now , and the idea looks a lot less plausible .
even if this were an accurate assessment of china ’ s intentions ( and even chinese can not know the views of future generations ) , it is doubtful that china will have the military capability to make this possible .
but can an emerging economy invest too much ?
china ’ s leaders thus continue to depend on a form of nationalism structured around tal es of victim hood .
more importantly , china abandoned economic au tar ky three decades ago . today , its economic links in asia are deep , and – it is to be hoped – permanent .
but governments also have an important role to play .
training at high al titude is permitted , though it gives those athletes who can do it an edge over competitors who must train at sea level .
they must also ensure that career choices are as open to their muslim citizens as they are to everyone else .
monetary tightening was forest alled only to the extent that another source of foreign capital ( either private or ecb ) could replace the outflow .
in spain and ireland , construction investment has increased to a level ( 18- 20 % of gdp ) far above that of the us and not seen in any other oecd country except japan before its bubble burst in 1989 .
neither the economics nor the politics of this pattern of current-account balances is sustainable , especially in a recessionary environment .
the federal reserve will thus be able to ease monetary policy then to offset the fiscal drag .
so why did central america 's leaders sign the agreement ?
closely related to these reforms is reform of the international monetary system .
everyone knows that it can not be “ won , ” whatever that means , and brown knows that both the war and britain ’ s serv ile sub ordination to the bush administration are deeply unpopular in britain .
people happily , and reliably , as sign numbers to their understandings of everything from complex machines to biological systems to natural phenomena such as the ti des ; but these ratings are usually far higher than their actual knowledge .
the alternative view suggests different remedies .
are they right ?
foreign governments began to change these politi es after al-qaeda in iraq bombed three hotels in am man , jordan , in november 2005 , killing 60 people .
in recent months , democratic lawmakers , headed by senator pat rick lea h y of ver mont , have called for an investigation into israel ’ s “ gross violations of human rights , ” including torture and extra judicial execu tions , against palestinians .
what is occurring in the region is a clash within a civilization ; to enable is to portray it as a conflict between civilizations – and itself as the true def ender of islam – would be a grave strategic mistake .
during the 1990 ’ s , however , anwar increased his influence within the party , unsettling many of the old guard .
hawks in the west may try to dismiss actions like these as weak .
the rationale is common to all forms of fundamentalism : this world exists to prepare believers for salvation .
the responsibility to which obama was referring rests with those who are much more learned in islam than “ all of us . ''
moreover , islamic finance is more equitable : lenders and borrowers share risks and rewards , which increases the focus on long-term goals and discourages excessive short-term risk-taking .
but all malay sians must learn how to manage pressures that seem to be pushing their country ’ s constituent communities away from one another .
the notion that democracies can fend off such forces , with their well- resour ced and medi a- savvy ideological apparat uses , with guns alone is a sure loser .
the us and uk governments have a long-standing policy of refusing to pay rans oms to terrorist organizations .
london – we know how to eradicate polio .
in my opinion , there are only five conceivable alternatives in a muslim country .
resolving that conflict - itself a key aspect of arab political identity - might enable arab political culture to change .
but because we muslims like to add qualifications that often derive from sources other than the koran , our religion ’ s unity has been broken .
such saving transl ations in islam have been emerging for a considerable period of time .
iran , with 83 million , is the world ’ s largest shia- majority country , followed by pakistan with 30 million and india with 25 million .
the japanese authorities clearly learned a lesson from their detention of a chinese fishing boat captain two years ago , when they eventually acc eded to chinese pressure – which included a range of harsh , and escalating , political and economic measu res – to release him .
the only recent parallel in latin america was a similar effort fifteen years ago by the colombian drug cartels .
sometimes they are resolved through active diplomatic intervention by regional or international players . and sometimes they are released violently .
kuwait , saudi arabia , and bahrain , in particular , perceive iran as inciting unrest among their own substantial shia populations .
in an interdependent world , isolation is no longer a source of pride ; on the contrary , it is a cause for concern .
two land marks define these changes : the end of the cold war , which rendered nato ’ s defensive strategy against the soviet union obsolete , and the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks on the us , which changed the profile of the enemy and the nature of the battlefield .
princeton – those who lead israel ’ s defense establishment often come to consider peace with the palestinians a necessary condition for the country ’ s security .
the second is the growing tendency among palestinians , other arabs , and many europeans to prefer a bi- national israeli-palestinian state to the original two-state solution .
this includes making sure that people who carry out attacks , and those who aid and ab et their crimes , are law fully punished .
isolating israel
but greece is not alone in opposing the eu ’ s new labeling guidelines : hungary , too , has come out against them .
and the last line of the advertis ement is at least fairly true : “ in israel , i am free . ”
so they have accepted the erosion of democratic values that netanyahu has overseen , determining that they must put identity first .
the fall of netanyahu ?
the failure and eventual s acking in 2013 of palestinian prime minister sal am f ay y ad – whose prof essed intention was to emulate zionism through a labor ious policy of state- building – is revealing .
where should one look for an explanation for this tragic evolution ?
are we in singapore , hong kong , or são paulo ? why challenge the certainties of the present with the uncertainties of the future ?
its ancient bi bl ical past can now coexist seam lessly with its ultra- modern present .
israeli policymakers refuse to talk about the subject .
this is where israel stands today , facing a political upheaval fueled by two developments .
humiliation is not a firm basis for long-term stability .
wilders , for one , is ost ent ati ously philos em iti c , and all the new righ ti sts like to stress the importance of what they call “ ju de o- christian values , ” which must be defended against “ islam of as cism . ”
president barack obama ’ s pragmatism and refusal to embrace the bush administration ’ s “ war on terror ” will also be a key determinant of the outcome .
i do not think so , and to argue as much de values the efforts of many over worked and under paid public servants around the world .
but there was a surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) .
yet , of the company ’ s 10 2,000 employees , only 27 favored lay offs .
it will be founded on family- owned farms and efficient agricultural businesses , and will guarantee [ that ] all citizens have access to the food they need to lead healthy , active lives . ”
the s & p 500 pric e / earnings ratio is gradually clim bing back to its long-term average of 16 .
in france , a law adopted in 2005 requires that sever ance pay for company managers now be subject to a shareholder vote , and the e ads scandal has spurred consideration of further legal changes .
in the czech republic last year , the budget deficit jumped to 13 % of gdp , a thre ef old increase since 1999 .
also gone are the coo k ie cut ter policy recommendations un affected by contex tual differences .
is the price increase justified , or are we witnessing a bubble ?
the european neighborhood policy is worthy enough , but it does not address the pressing concerns about maintaining and securing ukraine ’ s independence .
a possible key to mutual confidence would be for the democrats to hold the crucial finance ministry , while m5s ap points the prime minister .
and , as in those elections , his own party , for za ital ia , will have as its main partner the separatist , anti-immigrant , and euroskeptic northern league .
the financial crisis of 2008 and the debt crisis that followed revealed major flaws in the governance of the economic and monetary union ( emu ) .
for example , both italy and turkey have dispen sed with the dictum that macroeconomic stability must come before growth- promoting fiscal and monetary stimulus .
on the domestic front , both parties have promised to tackle corruption and topple what they see as a self-serving political establishment , while introducing radical policies to reduce unemployment and redistribute incomes .
the appointment was du ly rejected by the italian president .
when populism comes home to ro ost
real disposable income per capita dropped precipitously in 2009- 2012 , and remains below pre-crisis levels , which were already below the prevailing levels prior to italy ’ s adoption of the euro .
europe ’ s december day of reckoning
some state institutions dislike the idea of delivering more powers to the executive branch ; mag istr ates , for example , fear a loss of judges ’ extensive and unchecked powers .
as italians face the prospect of a referendum on eurozone membership , and the french prepare for next year ’ s presidential election , the value of this can not be overestimated .
the italian target credit , however , has now exceeded that estimate .
the huge design challenge is to find the right level of mandatory policy convergence – one that works economically and is acceptable politically .
moreover , a number of eurozone countries ’ continuing economic distress and weak competitiveness reflects their lack of a currency to depreciate .
as a result , since 2007 , the number of immigrants arriving each year has fallen by half , while the number of emigr ants has tripled .
after all , many people here have been teaching the “ efficient markets hypothesis ” that financial markets around the world have become so competitive that it is impossible to make more than a normal return from investing .
the share of workers employed by medium-size mexican companies – a potential engine of job growth – dropped from 41 % in 1999 to 38 % in 2009 .
but , while policymakers ’ desire to be prepared for potential future risks to price stability is understandable , they did not place these concerns in the context of recent inflation developments at the global level – or within historical perspective .
zhao ’ s allies are not out to “ humili ate china . ”
through prudent representation , a republican form of government can enjoy the advantages of profession alization and expertise , as well as new ideas from society , as it pursues the public interest .
while calling for a strong digital agenda in one breath , the same politicians , supported by protectionist interests at home , often argue for putting a brake on the internet ’ s “ disruption ” by imposing strict new regulation .
and , five years after the largest financial crisis in almost 80 years , one can count the number of properly qualified board members – across all megabanks – on the fingers of one hand .
they currently aid more than 1.5 million syrian refugees , including a half-million who are internally displaced , traum atized , angry , and be wil dered by the lack of outside assistance .
to be sure , liberal democracies have felt threatened since communism collapsed in 1989 – but mostly by foreign terrorists , who tend not to form political parties and sit in these countries ’ parliaments .
the aiib seems to offer an ideal solution .
without a strategy for growth , which includes efforts to reduce government expenditures and a policy to stop deflation , japan ’ s economy will remain in the dol drums .
moreover , whereas germany ’ s constitution , or basic law , authorized the use of military force in self-defense or as part of a collective security agreement , japan ’ s constitution stipul ated full and permanent relinqu ishment of “ the threat or use of force as a means of settling international disputes . ”
the structure of the eurozone imposes limits on the use of both fiscal and monetary policy .
these experiences have convinced me that there is an enormous amount of trust in the world about the path that postwar japan has taken .
go to , a journalist who traveled to syria last october to try to secure yuk awa ’ s release , will supposedly be spared if japan sec ures jordan ’ s release of a convicted terrorist .
in fact , there is a sense that abe 's policies are contributing to rising inequality .
the need to restore economic dynamism was the focus of south korea ’ s presidential election in 2012 , which brought the country ’ s first-ever female president , park geun-hye , to power .
this may be old w ine in a new bottle , but old w ine often rewards those who are willing to taste it .
in the immediate aftermath of world war ii , the us opened its markets and deployed its immense financial resources to re construct japan and western europe ’ s devastated economies .
abe ’ s actions in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g-7 summit in germany , where he broke with japanese tradition .
contemporary japan may have its flaws , but it is now much more egalitarian than the us , india , or many countries in europe .
a japanese pon zi scheme ?
in reaching the agreement to raise the consumption tax , the opposition liberal democratic party insisted that the main squeeze on the budget deficit – the amount spent on social-security benefits for japan ’ s retirees – begin to be addressed .
for those who want a stable asia , the interest in establishing close links with japan should be obvious .
without structural reforms , especially of the labor market , abenomics can not succeed in the long run .
this time , prime minister na oto kan ’ s dpj ( democratic party of japan ) government is making an all-out effort , with unprecedented intensive involvement of his cabinet and newly formed specialized task forces .
and , decades after le w is l . straus s , the chairman of the united states atomic energy agency , claimed that nuclear power would become “ too cheap to meter , ” the nuclear industry everywhere still subsi sts on mun ific ent government subsidies .
in order to warn his fellow villagers , who are busy with festiv al preparations , go h ē  uses a tor ch to set fire to his recently cut she aves of rice .
from 1988 to 1993 , the legal work week fell 10 % , from 44 hours to 40 .
the cost of waste disposal , estimated at ¥ 7 7 6.7 billion , will be more than double the disposal cost following the great han sh in earthquake .
structural reform is needed to raise the anemic growth rate .
japanese governments could devote their energy to building up the country ’ s industrial wealth , while the us took care of security , and by extension much of japan ’ s foreign policy .
from the 1980s onward , we have seen the rise of the republic of korea , taiwan , the asean countries , and , before long , china – all taking the path of economic development enabled by the open world order created by the us .
indeed , “ special representatives ” from the two countries have already met 17 times to settle the issue , but have made precious little progress , not least because of chinese concerns about the restive border provinces of tibet and xinjiang .
despite the very different challenges that lie ahead for afghanistan and india , their electoral experiences will have one thing in common : they will serve as a clear reminder that there is no easy route to democracy .
but india , blocked to its west by pakistan , is increasingly looking east for trade and strategic partnerships .
perhaps the clearest indication of the party ’ s decline occurred in december , when it suffered crushing defe ats in four key state- assembly elections .
but india ’ s most important partnership remains that with the us .
pakistan ’ s internal struggles – from inter- communal conflict to relentless terrorist activity – are well known .
advances in the defense industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil- military synerg ies and investment in research and development , which is fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness .
madrid – the geneva ii middle east peace conference , to be held on january 22 , will take place against a backdrop of sing ularly appalling numbers : syria ’ s brutal civil has left an estimated 13 0,000 dead , 2.3 million refugees registered in neighboring countries , and some four million more internally displaced .
voters are critical of today ’ s policies , but the european ideal will survive if it can be modern ized and serve again as a source of hope for eu citizens .
if the eu is to retain public loyalty , it must listen up and proceed to action .
this is not the saudi - us alliance ’ s fin est hour .
france should consider europe its own .
in egypt , both the army – whether under mubarak or field marshal abdul - fat tah el- sisi – and the islamists have demonstrated that they want all power for themselves .
when saddam defied the resolutions , a 3 4- country coalition , supporting the united states -led air offensive known as operation desert storm , drove his troops out of kuwait .
today , the north atlantic economy faces two additional downward shocks .
if we use the 1.6 % annual real discount rate at which the us treasury can borrow via 30-year inflation- protected treasuries , the future per capita costs are $ 5 50,000 .
1 .
and we have made no progress on global warming , preserving a middle-class society , or improving the education system to make equality of opportunity a reality .
even today , i can not comprehend then- new york fed president timo thy geithner ’ s declaration in march 2008 that , “ it is very hard to make the judgment now that the financial system as a whole or the banking system as a whole is under capitalized . ”
they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , had significantly out performed the expected growth of european economies .
this view translates into policies aimed at better mobilizing society ’ s financial risk- bearing capacity , and that use the public sector to outw it the forces of time and ignorance that curb willingness to engage in risky investments .
nor did france support free and fair elections in in do china or in its middle eastern and african colonies .
if parliaments want to tie their own hands , they can do so simply by passing a law .
the eu faces a delicate balancing act between the need to foster investment and the need to remain cautious , especially with public money .
draghi broke three taboos at once .
the underlying question is whether it is right to assume that the euro should have created more solidarity .
paris – the results of last weekend ’ s european parliament election are as puzzling as they are shocking .
clo gged capital markets and resistance to social hardship have also delayed the replacement of incumbent firms by more efficient new entrants .
should this now be read as an unwit ting conf ession that he has lost his own moral bear ings ?
every day , mayors are called on to get the job done for residents .
governments across the region have taken over $ 100 million in financing from the islamic development bank to scale up the m v p concepts themselves .
and the world regions involved then are involved again .
these epidemic diseases are new mar kers of globalization , revealing through their chain of death how vulnerable the world has become from the pervasive movement of people and goods .
moreover , the social and political environment must be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and supporting entrepreneurship and creativity .
now putin claims the right to ignore neighboring countries ’ sovereignty on the pretext that russia is merely defending the rights of ethnic russians abroad , up to and including their right to sec ede and join the russian homeland .
climate negotiators can not answer that question , but innovators like el on mus k of tesla , and scientists like k la us lac kn er of columbia university , can .
one can add many other us actions , including drone strikes on the territory of sovereign states without their governments ’ permission ; covert military operations ; ren di tions and torture of terror suspects ; and massive spying by the us national security agency .
consider the fate of one courageous exception to this rule .
that chance lies in paris in december 2015 , when the world ’ s governments meet for the 2 1st annual united nations climate-change meeting .
these are policies that reduce inequality efficiently , at relatively low cost to aggregate income .
the imf reform would have been an important step in up dating the allocations of quotas , which determine member states ’ monetary contributions and voting power .
without customers , firms do not build new factories , even when the cost of capital is low , while workers who have been unemployed for a long time may drop out of the labor force altogether .
in the case of the environment , comman d- and- control regulation is inefficient , discourages innovation , and can have unintended consequences ( like europe ’ s growing reliance on coal ) .
when , in 2005 , the government finally got around to negotiating a debt swap , it could almost dictate the terms – a 70 % “ haircut . ”
economists feel confident in opposing commodity subsidies because agricultural and energy markets tend to approach the ideal of perfect competition , with a large number of consumers on the demand side and producers on the supply side .
multipl ying a midd ling per capita income by more than 1.3 billion “ capita ” yields a big number .
but imagine that in the future we lived in a piketty world , where inheritance and un earned income fueled strat os pheric income inequality .
three respectable , if un inspiring , former ministers vi ed for the position , but struggled to find a compelling message that connected the party of the left with modern britain .
the government can borrow all it wants from the bond markets at near-zero interest rates .
millions of people simply can not afford to buy the food that they need , which could still be the case if supply were increased .
some argue for “ helicopter money , ” whereby the fed prints money and hands it out .
there is simply no need to look to the ology to call a crime by its proper name .
that motivation can stem from a variety of sources , among the most common being exclusion from power .
profiles in peacemaking
advances in molecular biology offer analogous – but far more sophisticated – solutions .
most important , it would undermine iran ’ s efforts to make in roads into the arab world under the pretext of defending palestine and holy jerusalem .
that would be to expect behavior far above and beyond what is normal .
in fact , the two faces of science are much more intim ately inter w oven – less like faces than like two ingredients of a thoroughly stir red mixture .
in short , the euro exchange rate is too weak for equilibrium in germany and too strong for equilibrium in france and the other less competitive eurozone economies .
in venezuela , the danger is just as great for everybody , and addressing it is much cheaper and easier .
because p em ex , unlike the brazilian and colombian state-owned oil companies , will not be listed on the new york or mexico city stock exchanges , internal reform will be postponed or half- b aked .
instead , putin has now triggered a lasting crisis .
berlin – grand political strategy and everyday experience often have a lot in common .
the memory of 1914 may trigger the most concern in east asia , where all the ingredients of a similar disaster have accumulated : nuclear weapons , the rise of china as a global power , unresolved territorial and border disputes , the division of the korean peninsula , historical resentments , an obsession with status and prestige , and hardly any cooperative conflict- resolution mechanisms .
from iran ’ s perspective , accepting an american hand extended in a spirit of conc iliation could turn it into a f ist .
simply put , the global economy has at its center a dysfunctional political regime that generates recur rent threats of default on the world ’ s major reserve asset .
just as the bretton woods framework restored order to the global economy after wwii , a new monetary framework , underpinned by a truly international currency , could strengthen much-needed economic and financial stability .
other holdouts ( 6. 6 % of total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion .
an initiative at the united nations to encourage the establishment of sdr ms is receiving the support of prominent academic economists and practitioners .
two things should be clear .
moreover , the state should appropriate , through dividends , a larger share of soes ’ value ( some of which might be at the expense of these firms ’ managers . )
the market is far better in making such judgments .
other countries , one hopes , will follow suit .
and a booming high-tech sector has become the envy of the rest of the world .
but the global private financial system seems incapable of recycling the world ’ s surpluses to meet these needs .
the most afflicted countries are in a depression .
one way to do this is through social ventures .
this outraged ukrainians in the country ’ s more pro- eu western regions , spurring protracted popular protests that ultimately toppled yanukovych ’ s corrupt but democratically elected government .
one is that nuclear weapons give political leaders the equivalent of a cryst al ball that shows what their world would look like after escalation .
finally , there is the question of values .
many governments continued to advocate traditional united nations voting procedures for making global decisions , and defend their right to control domestic cyber activities .
woodrow wilson ’ s bet on the ver sa illes treaty of 1919 contributed to the disastrous isolationism of the 1930 ’ s .
japan ’ s self-defense defense
“ i speak of peace , therefore , as the necessary rational end of rational men , ” he said .
yet the question ling ered .
resources are allocated in efficiently across the economy , with a corrupt institutional and legal structure that impedes private investment .
investors are worried that the court could oppose the esm such that they would have to bear the losses from their bad investments .
the d red scott of climate change ?
the following year , i enrolled in school and began to learn that the world extended beyond na ir ag ie en k are .
fresh thinking about structural reform is needed , too .
what did trump get from the europeans , other than a return to a trade negotiation straight out of the obama era ?
after centuries of war , upheaval , and mass killings , europe is peaceful and democratic .
a conservative assessment by louis ku ij s , working with the world bank , shows that , from 1978 to 1994 , china ’ s gdp grew by an average of 9. 9 % annually , labor productivity increased by 6.4 % , tfp rose by 3 % , and the capital- labor ratio increased by 2.9 % .
the problem is that china ’ s domestic capital market remains underdeveloped , owing to administrative restrictions , a non- diverse structure , and a lack of innovation – all of which means that progress in the short term is unlikely .
but china ’ s export-led growth model has limits – and the country is reaching them .
simply put , more liquidity will not lead to more active bank lending until there is more transparency regarding the extent of non-performing loans and the relevant economies have become more flexible .
un deterred by the still- untested icty ’ s reach , serb soldiers finally over ran srebrenica itself – despite its status as a “ safe area ” under un protection – 15 years ago , on july 11 , 1995 , and proceeded to exp el the town ’ s people and execute 7 , 600 cap tives .
because an “ eye for an eye ” can never work when communities are in conflict – re pris al leads to a counter- re pris al in the sort of blood spiral we are seeing in the middle east .
according to the bank , a 10 % increase in infrastructure investment is associated with gdp growth of 1 % .
only poles can do that .
striking the right balance among these different view points is no easy task – but much depends on getting it right .
the magn it sky act should be am ended to include the names of political and military leaders responsible for the invasion of ukraine .
after all , successful economic development – in countries like the us , germany , japan , and china – has depended on domestic credit creation for productive investment .
growing debt burdens suggest that this form of cheap politics has run its course .
but the case for small steps guided by market mechanisms is strong .
internet- inspired movements usually have lasting impact only if they generate traditional political activity , such as street protests or the establishment of political parties .
but there are areas in which there is no evidence .
although the issue has been much debated , until now there has been only modest progress in developing fuel- supply assurance arrangements that would meet this concern .
we are restoring our once- vibrant nation , and the crucial component -- hope -- has already been revived .
just enough republican senators ( three , but more were in reserve if needed ) voted to reject the last of several efforts to fulfill the party ’ s vow to replace “ obamacare . ”
but neither the mexican “ t equ ila crisis ” of 1994 nor the asian crisis of 1997 was caused by large public deficits .
the way the election campaign has unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first transnational political space in european – indeed , world – history .
partly because the united states makes capital increases and governance reforms in global financial institutions so difficult , the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) have launched their own development bank , to be based in shanghai .
a supra- national political space can develop only if european politics gains vis ibility , influence , and credibility .
if the “ technolog ists ” are half- right , gdp will be much higher .
the brotherhood ’ s approach to governance also explains the mess it made of the economy .
on october 27 , 1962 , just after soviet forces in cuba shot down a us surveillance plane ( killing the pilot ) , a similar plane taking routine air sam ples near al aska inadvertently violated soviet air space in siberia .
to my mind , the biggest failure of post-2008 economic policy has consisted in governments ’ inability to find creative ways to write down unsustainable debts , for example in us mortgage markets , and in europe ’ s periphery .
yes , massive institutional improvements concerning central banks have created formidable barriers to high inflation .
at least the existing 2 % inflation target stands for something , because central bankers can portray it as the moral equivalent of zero .
in advanced economies , though the answer should still be yes , the challenges are becoming formidable .
there are other notable , if less consequential , fundamentals in the mix .
through regulation and administrative directives , banks , insurance companies , and pension funds are being forced to hold much higher shares of government debt than they might voluntarily choose to do .
attempts to convert national incomes into a common denom in ator are fraught with complications .
to believe that any country issuing debt in its own currency is risk-free as long as the exchange rate is flexible is aston ishingly naive .
and why have such attacks been treated so cas ually – the february abduction in south sudan elic ited barely any international comment – when they in fact constitute crimes against humanity .
good fences make safe species
but , in the event , many russians p iti ed the prisoners , and some even threw bread to them .
even countries that rallied to bush 's call for help , like my homeland , poland , are now wary of their involvement .
sav or it for a moment .
germany is providing lavish support for the construction of new coal plants .
the current crisis has shown with utmost clarity that private markets are unable to self- regulate ; domestic regulation is therefore a key area in which government has a role to play .
but it ’ s theoretical nihil ism , co ch ran e argues , to as cr ibe these excessive fluctuations to “ ir rationality ” as krugman does .
as i begin to reach out to african leaders one by one , i look forward to the day when we will have achieved universal health coverage for the world ’ s 7.7 billion people .
even some western countries have failed to take a stand .
saudi arabia seeks to run its oil production independently , while iran sca res off potential investors with bureaucratic hurdles and corruption .
according to the international society of ne ph ro log y , kidney disease affects more than 500 million people worldwide , or 10 % of the adult population .
although the needs of kr ill- dependent species were previously considered for large areas of the southern ocean , the cc am l r must still scientif ically sub divide the overall catch limit into smaller units .
there is an important lesson in this for the eu at a time when it is seeking to become a global actor : we must reach an internal consensus while always bearing in mind what the external ramifications of our decision might be .
kim ’ s bon hom ie ( real or fe igned ) and promises of denuclearization have muted trump ’ s threats , brought the south korean government closer to his side , and eroded international sanctions against his regime .
in order to address this problem at the root , the us should have taken a political approach , rather than focusing repeatedly on concluding a narrowly defined military- security deal .
north korea is the nuclear problem from hell .
he accused the british of being “ defe atist ” and argued that afghanistan ’ s deteriorating security situation could be addressed with an iraq - style “ surge , ” which has undoubtedly brought down violence levels in that country .
though the supreme court cleared him of all personal wrong doing , the tragedy ’ s legacy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alien ating his hindu nationalist base .
likewise , big data offers untold benefits to companies and consumers , but poses a real threat to privacy and personal freedom .
improvements in the eurozone are real but ten uous .
the key is to pursue a comprehensive approach – one that recognizes the fundamental linkages among programs and objectives , takes advantage of proven solutions , and adopts a long-term perspective .
but such is the importance of this challenge – and so dire are the consequences of failure to overcome it – that the commission strongly recommends the adoption of a drug- treatment policy with minimum standards across the region .
while the first and second arrows aim to transform japan ’ s actual growth path , the third operates on the economy ’ s potential growth path , which assumes the optimal use of all available resources and technologies .
instead of compl aining about its actions , emerging -country policymakers should be devising strategies for offsetting the spillover effects on their own economies .
both countries ’ experiences have demonstrated that substantial reductions over a short period are far more effective than a gradual , draw n- out process .
but support by jews for the ma id an movement was much more salient .
to ensure the sustainability of peop le- centered cooperation , all countries in the region must grow and develop together .
in a five- page suicide note , tri path i expressed her frustration at having been compelled to study engineering , when her real ambition was to become a nasa scientist .
this alleged russian disruption of the democratic presidential campaign fell into a gra y area that could be interpreted as a propaganda response to clinton ’ s 2010 pro clam ation of a “ freedom agenda ” for the internet or retaliation for what russian officials saw as her critical comments about putin ’ s election in 2012 .
gdp in the third quarter of 2014 grew at a vigorous 5 % annual rate , suggesting that aggregate growth for all of 2015 will be above 3 % .
of course , both estimates are subject to questions of interpretation ; the imf assumes , for example , that the uk was operating well above potential gdp in 200 6- 8 .
and it is a role that the eu seems to have mis understood in at least one important respect : its attitude toward risk .
with pro- reform forces strengthening their position in the new parliament , the government has two choices . it can go along with electoral reform , or it can find an opportunity to dissolve the new parliament .
· at a recent meeting at ex e ter in the uk , some participants warned of a 50- 50 chance that the gulf stream winds could collapse within a century .
but making it difficult for firms to lay off workers provides only an illusory benefit for workers , for it compromises companies ’ ability to compete , and weakens their incentive to create jobs .
only then will it be possible to address unemployment and poverty effectively and unlock the potential of africa ’ s youth .
but it has nonetheless unleashed a tor rent of creativity focused on the basic question of how better to align supply and demand for labor in a fa ster - pac ed world .
an innovation state , established along the lines ske t ched above , would reconcile equity with the incentives that such investment requires .
either way , at a time when we need serious investigative journalism and intelligent analysis of economic trends and business activities more than ever , the capacity to deliver them is rapidly being eroded .
old societies have customs and traditions ; new ones have courts and legislatures .
anyone making such comparisons might seem to have fallen victim to the irrational political rhetoric that is already perv ading america ’ s presidential election campaign .
are these still needed ?
likewise , in southeast asia , hill tribes rarely have legal rights to their indigenous holdings , which are often located in state forests .
while payments to con serve forests are starting to flow under the un ’ s redd+ program , and the green climate fund has committed $ 500 million for forest protection payments , total public investment in sustainable land use remains inadequate .
in fel lin i ’ s film “ la str ada , ” the circ us artists lived on the margins of society ; in the “ wall street circ us , ” they lived like go ds , making millions .
mul len ’ s subjects obs essively held grudg es against anyone whom they viewed as part of the group or community that refused to accept them .
if bush had made this trip several years ago , things would be different today .
the least traumatic way to achieve greater openness without having to blow up the existing agreement is to have mer cos ur join a larger free-trade area .
and africa is being held back by civil conflicts , terrorism , and poor governance .
and the kids have a growing chance of going to university .
and voters ended up re- electing presidents like carlos men em of argentina , fern and o hen rique car dos o of brazil , and al berto fu jim or i of peru precisely because they were able to overcome the debt crisis , balance the budget , and bring down inflation .
in late 2015 and early 2016 , developments in china roiled financial markets .
with the exception of central america , rising commodity prices have improved the external accounts and fiscal positions of latin american countries .
although the inclusion of all latin american states goes some way towards repairing the weakened braz ili an- mexican axis , and creates a new and more positive environment for future political coordination , this new organization is unlikely to contribute much to actual regional integration .
teachers are furious at being blamed for the wre t ched state of the country ’ s education system and view peña nieto ’ s “ educational reform ” law as an excuse to limit the power of their unions while avoiding genuine institutional reform .
london business school ’ s h é l è ne rey has argued that us monetary-policy shocks affect risk premia , and that this channel operates internationally as well as domestically .
if the gains from globalization are not widely shared , political support for greater openness to global flows will decline – as will the economic benefits that such flows create .
republicans are impl ac ably opposed to increases in social-welfare programs and higher taxes on the wealthy to finance them .
competitive cuts in corporate tax rates , the spread of tax havens , and the rising importance of easily mov able intangible capital have already made these incentives more powerful .
in a 2013 survey of economists by the university of chicago , 75 % of the respondents agreed that , “ because the us has under spent on new projects , maintenance , or both , the federal government has an opportunity to increase average incomes by spending more on roads , bridges , railways , and airports . ”
over the long term , however , the outlook for investing in emerging-market economies , particularly those with strong macroeconomic fundamentals , stable political environments , and an expanding middle class , is promising .
the average family income of the bottom 90 % of households has been flat since about 1980 .
my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , although this is not easy to do from moscow .
the success of these programs shows that when leaders focus on creating opportunities for people who have not been treated fairly , they can build more cohesive societies and equip more people to contribute produc tively to the economy .
and , most significantly when it comes to assessing the ease of integration over time , they fully expect their kids to be completely , un hes it antly “ american ” – a promise that , by and large , is readily fulfilled .
but , in the long run , it produced a much better policymaking environment .
government stability will remain a delicate balancing act .
to be sure , political and market volatility in a broad range of emerging-market economies will continue .
the reason for this concentration at the top is obvious : the richest clubs are now able to attract the best players in the world .
but if hic cup can set loose a b unch of schoolchildren to study sugar metabol ism for themselves , they are likely to spread the message far and wide in their own communities , to friends and family alike .
research throughout the world shows that education is a key prerequisite for sustainable growth .
two examples of this are the we f ’ s global competitiveness index and its new inclusive growth and development index .
despite various setbacks , during the last academic year we opened 1,000 public schools to non- lebanese students .
as in lebanon , iraqis might need to create a balance between the offices of president , prime minister , and speaker of parliament , and to agree that a leader of a different major community will occupy each .
like competitors elsewhere , they need to invest abroad to acquire a portfolio of local assets that give then better access to the markets , skills , technology , and natural resources that they need to protect and strengthen their international competitiveness .
but women remain under utili zed , to the detriment of the entire economy .
finally , though some evidence suggests that there is an over- supply of university graduates in china , ongoing demographic and sectoral shifts mean that china will encounter a supply deficit of 24 million highly skilled graduates of universities or higher- level vocational schools by 2020 .
the reasons for this are not difficult to discern : india performs poorly on the fundamental drivers of long-term economic prosperity .
lee ku an ye w , who presided over singapore either directly or indirectly for more than a half-century – remaining influential right up to his death at 91 – had more time in power than most to do so .
but once locked into this eu , a political campaign to exit it is unlikely to steer national politics in the direction of leftist goals .
one team of economists has found that respondents “ prim ed ” by references to lobbyists or the wall street bailout display significantly lower levels of support for anti- poverty policies .
americans find it hard to understand this , as do others in the lucky democracies of the anglo-saxon world .
the second question is how to constrain leveraged growth in the future .
opposition forces were also to blame ; they refused to cooperate with the brotherhood , betting that political isolation and a failing economy would end up weakening their opponents .
it has an important political economy component : are independent central banks willing to force society to sacrifice growth in order to preserve financial stability ?
so , what can the world learn from detro it ’ s plight ?
and , as in libya , american support was crucial in the four areas where france and other european countries fall short : aerial re con na issance , targeting , air transportation , and air -to- air refu eling .
by contrast , the brexiteers promised to “ take back control ” of the uk ’ s borders and claimed – fal sely – that the national health service would enjoy a windfall of £ 350 million ( $ 4 90 million ) per week .
indeed , the kaczyński government embarked on a program of anti- reform .
several factors appear to explain the nordic countries ’ economic success .
this has been the fate of some of our standard macroeconomic policies .
there is , however , no evidence that even the most radical students ever had such ambitions , and the demonstrations had been entirely peaceful .
the final lesson relates to the danger of the ideological echo chamber .
most co2 emissions result from the burning of fossil fuels – coal , oil , and natural gas – for energy , global consumption of which is rising as the world economy grows .
in fact , there is little in the way of a global community of thought or action .
the requirement of consensus before action can be taken is a recipe for di thering .
so , instead of fro w ning on capital controls and pushing for financial openness , the international monetary fund should be in the business of actively helping countries implement such policies .
in my 2003 book the new financial order , i proposed that such units be called “ bas kets , ” since a consumer price index is the price of a representative market basket of goods and services .
any country with a sensible development strategy has the opportunity to make its economy grow , with assistance from trade .
greece and turkey also worked together to prevent the war in iraq from spil ling over into neighboring countries .
two forums are making great strides .
in stalin 's time , the master pieces of , say , boris past ern ak or dmitri sho st ak ov ich were entrusted to give arti s tic voice to a silenced civil society .
yet nowadays the practitioners of politically divisive speech seem to have the upper hand : donald trump ’ s border wall and viktor orbán ’ s closed borders are big vo te- ge t ters .
likewise , preserving today ’ s good politics also requires that we give urgent attention to four topics : the political and social limits of globalization ; the financi alization of the real economy ; the role of fiscal and monetary policy ; and the del inking of rewards from work in an era of accelerating automation .
but the dividing line between person hood and the external world upon which liberal individu alism based its concepts of autonomy , self- ownership , and , ultimately , freedom could not be maintained .
for the budget proposes contracting with american startups to send astr on au ts and c argo to low- earth orbit – mostly to the international space station .
repressive dictatorships can not win free and fair elections .
fully aware of its growing importance in an oil- starved world , libya will use that advantage to the full and it will no doubt guard , with g addafi at the forefront , its sovereign rights vo ci fer ously and as sid uously .
both parties fa red poorly in the election in july of a new general national congress , with only q aid winning a seat .
qaddafi frequently farm ed out power to municipalities and citizens in an attempt to bypass the civil servants who consistently thwarted his grandiose plans .
bureaucrats lament ministerial di thering .
new york – the post-1945 order constructed by the us in europe and east asia has been fra ying at the ed ges for some time now .
furthermore , only 15 % of the genetic sequ ences found in the sam ples from the environment and from fec es analyzed in met ag enom ic studies belong to the three domains of mic robes currently recognized in the tre e- of- life framework – bacteria , archa ea , and eu kar yo tes .
whether we are choosing what to eat or how much to exercise , or trying to assess our chances of a specific condition , the numbers make it feel real and immediate .
the rich so-called “ annex  1 ” countries have had compulsory obligations , while poorer “ non- annex  1 ” countries merely have been required to make voluntary efforts .
of course , policy failures – for example , protectionism – do occur in all of these areas .
the limits to green growth
these companies have ev is cer ated traditional media , though many of the losers were themselves olig opol ists or monopol ists .
this idea matters a lot in trade policy .
in short , though central banks ’ creation of macro liquidity may keep bond yields low and reduce volatility , it has also led to crowded trades ( her ding on market trends , exacerbated by hf ts ) and more investment in illiquid bond funds , while tighter regulation means that market makers are missing in action .
i was frustrated because the hotel management was not listening to me when i asked for a quiet room – or later , when i complained .
but such socio- biological explanations of leadership are of only limited value .
many brexiteers will say that there is no contradiction .
ke ating believed that the fighting at ko k oda represented the real birth p ains of an independent australia , not some colonial ap pend age of britain created to serve imperial purposes in the far east .
the task of social workers and police , therefore , is to try to resolve – quickly and discre e tly – each particular incident , in order to dampen the revolt .
none of this exc uses the v ile language of liv ing stone and others like him .
the disruption can be caused not only by an industrial closure .
and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible pictures much longer .
these attacks brought m ü nt ef ering vast public support and triggered a major debate .
bar ni er favors european directives that impose uniform rules for all member states – so called “ maximum harmonization ” measures .
crucially , the us also wants to retain its technological and military superiority .
investments , both public and private , are needed to foster green growth , support innovation and entrepreneurship , contribute to closing the inequality gaps that have widened during the crisis , and help build the skills that are essential for more resilient economies and more inclusive societies .
unfortunately , no .
unfortunately , these problems are yet to be fully resolved .
ideally , asian currencies would rise much more than 15 % while european currencies would rise less .
public expenditures over several decades supported basic research into photo volta ic technology , and large subsidies for initial deployment , particularly in germany , enabled the solar industry to reach sufficient size for lear n ing- curve and economy- of- scale effects to kick in .
and there probably are some on the far left who , as ar a ú jo fears , would like to turn the fight against climate change into a new justification for eliminating private enterprise .
maybe i can help .
and a sign of prosperity is supposed to be good health and longevity .
as for the new swing producer , the us has a much slower ( and leak ier ) reaction function relative to that of saudi arabia and opec .
the increased spending leads to higher employment , an increase in capacity utilization , and , eventually , upward pressure on wages and prices .
of course , given the multitude of existing taxes , fees , and subsidies on energy products in various countries , the goal of aligning the effective cost of carbon with its most economically efficient level would take time to achieve .
faster technological progress and a greater preference to work or to save were to be welcomed , because they would boost the supply of labor and capital – and thus employment and investment .
she has received death threats from muslim extremists ever since she ren ounced – indeed , denounced – her muslim faith , and was forced to live as a virtual fu g itive , albeit under the protection of the dutch state .
although corruption is pervasive , no top official has been prosecuted .
getting caught up in factor ing in all of the different perspectives would cause decision-making to gravit ate toward the lowest common denom in ator , with outcomes that achieve very little for anyone .
allegations of wrong doing range from mat ch- fixing and bribery among members of fifa ’ s executive committee to questions about how qatar was chosen to host the world cup in 2022 .
lying and leadership
her approach helped to shape human rights watch ’ s research method ology , which has proved vital to our reputation for responding to developments not only rapidly , but also appropriately , based on accurate information .
indeed , macri has announced that , in response to human rights violations in venezuela , he will invoke the so-called “ democratic clause ” in the stat utes of mer cos ur , which could lead to venezuela ’ s suspension from the regional trading bloc .
social origin is more positively correlated with educational outcomes in france than in any other oecd country .
no one who wants to build a union for peace can afford to permit , much less encourage , that outcome .
in principle , these changes increase economic efficiency , enabling the winners to compensate the losers .
by reaching out to two world leaders who made no secret of their hope that he would never make it to the é l ys é e palace , macron has set the stage for a new and ambitious french foreign policy .
corporate taxes are another area ripe for reform .
though he has proved flexible on the timing and method of introducing competition , he will likely defend his red lines , particularly those relating to new sn c f recruits as of 2020 .
but he has promised to maintain pension benefits , and his preferred social model appears to be nord ic- style flex ic ur ity – a combination of high levels of economic security with market-based incentives .
the real difference between these economies is that germany and the netherlands , unlike france , run large current-account surpluses .
can he keep it up ?
after a v ex ing encounter with trump at the g7 summit in italy in may , merkel summ ed up a sentiment that most other european leaders now share .
the traditional policies of the center-right would not easily be compatible with a strong inter nationalist bent .
who are le pen and mé l é n ch on trying to k id in fe igning concern for public civil ity when they only fan resentment and hostility ?
but how long can “ at- the- sam e- time- ism ” suffice as a policy ?
unfortunately , the development and use of macroprudential tools faces considerable economic and political obstacles .
larger firms are more capable of pooling resources for research and development , which is the key to china ’ s aspirations to climb the value ladder .
one can only regret that the media seem less interested in this exciting and momentous story , which has the potential to help millions of children , than in mad on na ’ s adoption of a single mal awi an infant .
you might invest in the emb i + because it promises higher returns , or because you want to make your savings available to a larger segment of humanity .
c need not br ibe the judge to get his cow back .
in the philippines , where 60 % of gdp is generated by industries and associated services in the lag una lake region of metr o manila , pollution and sil tation has already reduced the lake ’ s depth by one third .
this technology-driven shift in the way people create , cur ate , share , and apply data should be reflected in development efforts for two reasons .
many now argue that the emerging economies are settling into a “ new normal ” of slower growth , and that their days as the key driver of the global economy are over .
now , instead of applying another turn of the scre w – and possibly causing the regime to bu ck le – obama is easing the pressure .
with the assassination of king fa isal in 1975 by his ne p he w , the su de iri branch of the family became its dominant faction .
economic aid for poor nations is crucial , because poverty provides the tin der for violence , conflict , and even terrorism .
the commission on human rights must rid itself of members that de test freedom .
similar reforms are urgently needed in countries like italy and spain .
making globalization work
accounting for only 15 % of the world 's population , they cause 50 % of global carbon dioxide emissions - with all their implications for climate change .
but if one really thinks that free lun ches exist , there is still no reason to privatize : government could get the additional returns by investing in the stock market itself .
with hindsight , one can identify other deficiencies in the euro of which its architects were unaware .
detractors ultimately fall back on the argument that multilateral lending to middle-income countries is waning along with demand .
the idea of creating and publishing an index with country rankings is a strategy adopted by many organizations and social movements to raise awareness about issues such as corruption , governance , freedom , gender equality , competitiveness , productive knowhow , and the investment climate , among others .
thanks to concerted investments in prevention , diagnosis , and treatment , the number of people killed by the disease each year has declined 60 % since 2000 , saving more than six million lives .
but these efforts must now be fully integrated into national health systems to ensure that all patients are consistently receiving high-quality care .
while the pas has only about 15 % electoral support , it has managed to push the umno to implement elements of its national ist- religious agenda .
all this changes now that the national front no longer has a two-thirds majority – which had allowed it to amend the constitution 40 times in 50 years .
in the four teenth century , the powerful mali empire included parts of modern-day senegal , guinea , and niger .
for more than a decade , my think tank , the copenhagen consensus , has studied and compared development options for governments and donor organizations operating at a global , regional , and national level .
the effects of wasting on human development and economic progress are almost as profound .
( mueller wants to avoid any perception of political meddling like that created by former fbi director james comey , who is widely seen as having hurt hillary clinton ’ s presidential campaign in 2016 . )
if commercial banks had been allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad - loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets .
high prices also enabled the coalition provis ional authority to add even more private security personnel to protect refin eries and pipelines .
different crops are affected differently , and weather insurance must take account of a farm ’ s various crops and when they were planted – complexities that modern information technology can solve .
other regions have done exactly that .
new delhi – world powers have often been known to intervene , over tly and cover tly , to overthrow other countries ’ governments , install pli ant regimes , and then prop up those regimes , even with military action .
indeed , along with london , it would be a second dynamic economic zone that regist ers on a global scale .
although recent studies suggest that high bm i scores do not necessarily increase risk of death , doctors find the bm i categories a useful basis for prevention and treatment .
side- effects are common in most medical interventions , including treatment with psycho active drugs .
the judges have offered no indication when they will make a decision .
the manufacturing of scientific uncertainty end angers the public ’ s health , as well as programs to protect public health and to compensate victims .
according to china ’ s ministry of land resources , there were more than 9 0,000 cases of illegal land transfers last year , yet there were precious few prosecu tions .
mao made china proud . deng made it prosperous .
the most obvious similarity is russian president vladimir putin ’ s assertions that his country can weather any and all western sanctions .
but deciding when to adopt the euro is a matter of heated debate .
the easy gains have already been ban ked ; any further structural change will take longer to agree and be tougher to implement .
translated into british terms , it meant releasing the impulse to wealth creation from the dead hand of socialism , bureaucracy , and trade unions , which in her reading of history had brought about britain ’ s decline .
the task of eliminating malaria , country by country , and eventually reaching global eradication , is underway .
first , the measured mass of the higgs bos on r enders the full theory “ me ta stable ” in the absence of any new physics phenomena .
i recently argued that the ecb , working with the nascent european stability mechanism ( esm ) , was the only institution that could save the eurozone .
space for brilliant blunders is vital to achieving the kind of creative breakthroughs that drive scientific progress .
this added attention is most welcome .
the media may make money , but as the recent anti- japan protests suggests , an excess of such market- driven jin go ism can damage a nation ’ s interests and international standing .
parents , especially if short of education themselves , can not easily evaluate the quality of their children ’ s schooling .
in recent years , markets have faced an unusually large ( and expanding ) set of unconventional political statements and maneu vers .
indeed , the world economy in 2016 will continue to be characterized by a new abnormal in terms of output , economic policies , inflation , and the behavior of key asset prices and financial markets .
we are at an inter reg n um .
first , bnp ’ s in fraction was part of a pattern of deliberate and repeated behavior .
but , as regulators reflect further , they will recognize that they can not rely on the derivatives industry to revise its contracts any more than industrial bankruptcy relies on creditors ’ contracts to stop failed firms from being ri pped apart .
that , however , is not the only way to view jpm ’ s – and the economy ’ s – luck .
and they do nothing to solve the basic problem of restricting government access to personal data held by private companies .
instead , it could settle for offering a range of assessments .
cambridge – china ’ s economic policymakers want to shift the country ’ s production away from exports and heavy industry , and to increase the share of consumption in gdp .
the fed could argue that the gap between current and full- employment gdp is larger than the 6. 1 % unemployment rate implies , owing to the large number of part-time workers who would prefer full-time employment and the sharp decline in the labor force participation rate .
employers can avoid the mandate by reducing an employee ’ s work week to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) .
it could repatri ate $ 500 million at any time with no additional tax liability .
the recent expansion of private airlines and airports shows what private firms in this sector can accomplish .
although there are serious risks facing the us economy in the coming year , there is also a good chance that growth will be substantially stronger than it has been since before the recession began .
an important study co- author ed by alan kru eg er of princeton university , who served as chairman of president obama ’ s council of economic advisers until last year , showed that the inflation rate reflects the level of short-term unemployment ( lasting less than six months ) , rather than the overall unemployment rate .
with so many of america ’ s top entrepreneurs , executives , and researchers having received support from the defense department , it is no surprise that google ’ s founders and executives , for example , have exchanged friendly emails with n sa officials .
annual gdp growth was close to 5 % , just behind china and india .
and chile ’ s national public investment system evalu ates all proposed public projects using standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % .
will the second arab awakening finally achieve its goals ?
that is the real challenge facing europe .
the lack of a counterv ailing ground force in northern china makes it vulnerable to a possible coup by shen yang , which has already taken advantage of its influence on the north korean regime to put pressure on china ’ s leaders .
yes , there was a bubble in the housing market , but it was no worse , current fed chair janet yellen said in 2005 , than a “ go od- sized bu mp in the road . ”
this vision of the world may seem ide alistic .
if that sounds far fetched , consider this : inst agr am co- founder mike k ri eg er is a brazilian who left home to find his fortune in san francisco .
instead , the welfare state must make its services available to him .
these trips – the first such deleg ations between the two countries in decades – suggest that iraq and saudi arabia might be forging a new , mutually beneficial relationship .
with a cap-and-trade system , the costs – in terms of jobs , household consumption , and economic growth – are hidden , shifted around , and not easy to estimate , though models indicate they will run into trillions of dollars .
it will have major consequences .
mohammed ’ s hij ra is not narr ated in the koran , but the sacred book is structured around the event , divided into revelations he received in mecca and those he received in med ina .
the scientific method is perhaps the greatest arbit er of truth humanity has ever devised .
as a result , its contribution to gdp ( as we currently measure it ) may be falling , even as the quantity and quality of services are increasing .
an emissions cut of a couple of percentage points is nothing to s ne er at , but it is certainly not what will “ save the planet . ”
media literacy programs have been around for decades in the us , focusing on issues like media bias and the impact of violence on children .
aggressive , fact- based journalism is a public good .
to reverse this trend , we must allow medical students to train in world-class clinical settings , while encouraging them to return to practice in their home countries .
ankara – if it is true that we live in a “ global village , ” bound to one another through commercial , financial , and social ties , then it is also true that informal economic activity in one part of the world has a negative impact elsewhere .
this gap is not about the number of women farmers .
implementation of such a scheme is unlikely , however .
europe has been unable to attract much more than a few dis reput able oligarchs , who migrated to the french riv i era , and a handful of li vely street sing ers .
seattle – africa ’ s progress in fighting men ing itis a is one of the best- kept secrets in global health .
bahrain , along with jordan and tunisia , has made significant political and financial commitments to boosting education , resulting in remarkable progress toward reducing illiteracy and closing the gender gap .
as rever by put it , “ i ’ d spent nearly two decades explaining that there had been no in oc ulation at tus ke ge e , that while the ph s had used depl orable ethics , they had never infected anyone with sy phil is . ” that was not true in guatemala .
not everybody with a mental illness needs expensive drugs , hospital care , or even direct access to highly trained psychi atr ists .
the great leader revival
crucially , she and macron announced plans for a common eurozone budget , to be funded by a financial transaction tax and eu disbur s ements .
while merkel did not spear head these reforms – not least because she had to avoid alien ating those in her party who viewed them negatively – she offered tacit support .
and , before the iran shock had been absorbed , the us threatened a 25 % import tariff on cars , which would s have at least $ 5 billion annually from german exporters ’ revenues .
to be sure , rising inequality , wage stagnation , and working-class frustration are evident across the developed world .
saving emerging markets from trump
but that foreign technology offered such important potential gains that president en rique peña nieto was able to marshal a majority in the mexican congress to amend the constitution and pass legislation that will bring foreign energy firms to the country .
princeton – when mexico ’ s then-president carlos sal in as de gor tar i and his american counterpart , bill clinton , signed the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) more than 20 years ago , the hope was that the mexican economy would be swept forward by a rising wave of globalization .
the answer is more nuanced .
protests erupted across mexico .
amlo is a faithful member of that brotherhood .
the agenda includes an expansion of the tax base to reduce dependency on oil , an initiative to increase competition in media and telecommunications , and a constitutional change that will permit the state-owned oil company p em ex to enter into joint ventures with foreign firms .
at a recent debate with , among others , fare ed z ak aria of new swe ek and cn n , as a hu t ch ison , the former head of the united states drug enforcement agency , the main question was whether the us was to blame for mexico ’ s drug war .
this is not the first such treatment of a prominent economist in latin america .
some of ukraine ’ s regions have historically been a part of russia , poland , or the ottoman empire .
the second option is serious , concerted structural reform .
the fact that inflationary pressure is still low is not a reason to postpone planning an exit from ultra- loose policy ; on the contrary , the time for such discussions is when inflation is low and markets are calm .
over the next two months the ipcc will release further reports detail ing the human and economic impacts of probable climate change and the costs and benefits of combating it .
washington , dc – in an impressive exercise in democracy , 5 50 million eligible voters participated in india ’ s 16 th general election .
when the un was founded in 1945 , polls showed similarly conflic ted views .
policies that extend social services and create new economic and entrepreneurial incentives for rural communities are key .
the lessons to be learned from these cases are useful not only to new and potentially new small countries .
these adverse trends date back to about 1980 .
all advanced economies ’ structures and portfolios of employment opportunities are facing similar competitive and technological forces , and all are t ending to shift income toward the upper end of the distribution and toward owners of capital .
the second is fiscal , and the third is structural .
with a huge potential global market to am or ti ze the up front fixed costs of design and testing , the incentives to invest are compelling .
if italy is to take advantage of the growth potential on the tradable side of the economy , following through is crucial – just as it was for spain .
since china launched its process of “ reform and opening up ” more than three decades ago , it has benefited from its willingness to consider – if not adapt – foreign ideas .
we have gone about as far as we can with a global system that is at best partly governed and regulated .
meanwhile , in the european union , an election has come to a close .
through all of this , governments have strengthened bank regulation only slightly , leaving key issues like liquidity creation , exposure to derivatives , and tax avoidance largely unaddressed .
these projects already have a proven track record .
who ’ s winning the middle east ’ s cold war ?
to be sure , political factions in tunisia have set a good example by often compromising with one another in order to create a viable governance structure ; but domestic social and sectarian grievances are still very much a part of tunisian politics .
“ a lot of the hope we had is now dead … it was killed . ”
the lebanese model is a good starting point for developing a framework that can be used worldwide .
we found that projected life expectancy has declined across the board since 2010 .
to that end , in iraq , terrorist groups will continue to exploit sectarianism , which had divided the country long before the united states invaded it in 2003 .
and while the recent nuclear deal with iran may reduce the proliferation risk , the lifting of economic sanctions on iran will provide its leaders with more financial resources to support their shia proxies .
technology can lift mena countries out of the middle-income trap – but only if the region ’ s governments take the lead .
sal am f ay y ad , the energetic western- trained palestinian prime minister , has implemented a detailed blueprint for declaring a de facto palestinian state by august 2011 .
boston – the middle east ’ s public-health challenges are enormous , especially when one accounts for the region ’ s transi ent population of refugees and guest workers .
just like in the developed countries of the west , migrants in the middle east can offer untold contributions to their host societies .
with the closure of jordan ’ s last border crossing with syria , that country faces a similar fate .
but , in order to break the cycle of violence and insecurity , all countries will ultimately have to step up to improve water management and protect ecosystems . otherwise , their water woes – along with internal unrest – will only worsen .
the region continues to breed only losers .
for more than a half-century , gulf countries absorbed millions of workers , primarily from their arab neighbors ’ lower middle classes .
democrats could raise government revenue further by implementing a carbon tax – an approach that would also have environmental benefits .
evidence from latin america , africa , south asia , and elsewhere shows that remittances reduce the depth and severity of poverty , and that the additional income is disproportionately spent on education and health .
donald trump , the republican us presidential nominee , portr ays syrian refugees fleeing for their lives as a security threat , despite the thorough screening procedures implemented by the current administration , which has committed to taking 10,000 syrian refugees by the end of the fiscal year .
and , indeed , efforts are underway to produce a new shared framework to manage the cross-border flow of people .
but there is still room for hope .
the unity of water
jean kam ban da , former prime minister of rwanda , pled guilty to crimes against humanity and genocide and is serving a life sentence in prison .
annan , after all , traveled to tehran as well .
india is likely soon to gain full membership in the shanghai cooperation organization , the club of central asian and asian states formed after the breakup of the soviet union .
another is that policy frameworks often are not accommodating .
a more radical change could come from a serious engagement in markets for secondary materials .
given that xi has ruled out mobilizing the chinese public to support his reform plans , his only means of forcing the bureaucracy to comply with his agenda is the threat of corruption investigations and prosecu tions .
while recent scandals have put china ’ s princ elings under a harsh media spotlight , they have been hot commodities for western companies seeking to capitalize on their gu an xi ( connections ) in order to secure multi- billion dollar transactions .
fallen tiger , shaken drag on
the good news is that president xi jinping seems to recognize this problem .
not long ago , i posed that question to a monetary-policy authority ( whose name i am not at liberty to di vul ge ) .
we would still have to pay by the end of the century , only now we would also have made ourselves poorer in the 90 years preceding it .
new york – the chinese often point out that in their language the character for crisis and opportunity are one and the same .
but for how long will a majority serve a minority ? for how long will it accept a lack of water , sanitation , education , and dignity ?
without revealing which programs he would reduce , romney promises to slash federal spending by more than $ 500 billion in 2016 , cap ping it at 20 % of gdp thereafter .
there was an astonishing sequ el .
egypt ’ s military regime , led by general abdel fat tah el- sisi , has been un relent ingly hostile toward hamas , blaming it for the fighting in sinai between the army and insurgent groups .
it is a uniquely foolish charge .
berkeley – an economic development revolution lies literally in the pal m of a single hand .
first , a growing number of institutional investors are reducing their dependence on financial intermediaries .
and ice in the bering sea has reached record lows .
being bad at math has become “ mathematics disorder . ”
and others have been far too willing to accept at face value sub missions from countries where the rule of law is routinely abused .
already 100 million people have been driven into poverty as a result of high food and fuel prices , and current estimates suggest that every 1 % decline in developing-country growth rates pushes an additional 20 million people into poverty .
more recently , hamas and israel have conducted air and land operations in the den sely populated gaza strip .
it is still too early to gauge the impact of his economic and foreign policies , but there is one area where his government is making palpable progress : taming india ’ s entrenched elite .
we do know that some of india ’ s business heav y weights , such as the t ata and ad ani groups , are also hoping to benefit from a plan to for give power- sector loans .
to this end , the fed has become much more “ transparent ” with markets in the last few years , sharing more readily the minutes and trans crip ts of its policy discussions .
there is a risk that , by tempting policy complacency , this year ’ s economic upturn could end up being counterproductive .
more and more americans are being led to forget how , just a few years ago , a united us government reacted decisively to “ market failures ” and thus helped to avoid a global economic meltdown that would have devastated millions of lives and undermined future generations ’ prospects .
but europe ’ s renewed sense of hope and confidence , however encouraging , is not sufficient – at least not yet – to produce appreci able welfare gains for current and future generations .
all of them share the unfortunate likelihood that their situation will become worse before it improves .
what about the solutions ?
suspicion of the powerful , after all , has been one of the revolution ’ s anim ating factors .
it is time , therefore , for the us to rethink its policy toward the israel-palestine conflict .
we understand why they go .
we can not expect loyalty to an unjust regime .
what matters deeply for moldova ’ s citizens , though , is to move towards a vis a- free regime with the eu .
conditions today are very favorable for monetary policymaking , particularly for the ecb – as a brief look at history makes clear .
central banks have been forced onto a policy path that is far from ideal – not least because they increasingly risk inciting some of the zero-sum elements of an undec la red currency war .
but this would mean reversing the priority given to deficit reduction .
standard economic theory suggests that the correct monetary-policy response to such positive supply shocks depends on their persistence .
the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at an increasing cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
but asset-price bubbles also tend to feature new innovations that enti ce markets and central banks into believing that this time really is different .
but , as 2015 begins , one billion people – one in seven – still live on less than $ 1.25 a day .
in 2014 alone , ordinary people suffered from heat waves in australia , floods in pakistan , and droughts in central america , while the collapse of the west antarctic ice sheet has been shown to be irreversible .
the limits of technocratic ut op ianism have been reached .
but , by enabling the rise of monopoly power , and by facilitating barriers to entry , the growth of it has also had major negative economic , social , and political side effects , including the proliferation of “ fake news . ”
china is , after all , a highly fru gal country , with gross savings totaling 48 % of gdp .
otherwise , he would face a serious domestic backlash from both the left and the right .
specifically , in order to lower the youth unemployment rate , which currently stands at 1 1.2 % , moon pledges to create 8 10,000 jobs in the public sector – including 17 4,000 civil- service positions in national security and public safety and 3 40,000 in social services – over the next five years .
humans evolved from prim ates who formed communities that worked together to survive .
are risks being correctly assessed and mitigated ?
the nazis forced treaties on weaker neighbors and seized others , then sought to de popul ate slav ic lands to make way for t eu tonic settlers .
and over the last half-decade , japan ’ s expatri ate population has surged to 2.4 million , an increase of 500,000 foreigners .
some observers argue that more should be done to contain risk in the system ; to the extent that risk has simply shifted from banks to shadow banks , they may be right .
with 13 1 turbines and a daily capacity of more than 300 m w , tar f aya will help reduce morocco ’ s carbon dioxide emissions by 9 00,000 tons annually , and cut the country ’ s annual oil import bill by more than $ 190 million .
it remains to be seen whether “ equity pricing ” will be feasible , considering the millions of dollars invested into research and development .
mothers of the disappeared
all of this is true .
now memories of kr is remain alive and accessible from anywhere .
thai cin em a ’ s gif ted young director ap ic hat p ong we er as eth ak u l ’ s film , un cle bo on me e who can recall his past lives , won the pal me d ’ or .
since the global crisis erupted in the fall of 2008 , both merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy have been faced with threats that their political majorities might disappear if they put aside their national interests in favor of a european compromise .
the impact has become impossible to ignore .
one question raised by the deal is whether the $ 13 0,000 , which co hen says he paid out of his own pocket without trump ’ s knowledge , amounted to an illegal campaign contribution .
as well as killing consumers , the effects of bad drugs can be passed from parent to child , and even create new drug-resistant strains of diseases that threaten us all .
in tunisia , meanwhile , the technocratic government that had taken charge for several months was replaced democratically .
six years after the eruption of the financial crisis , the recovery remains weak and uneven .
it was not an easy negotiation , and the ce ta has faced resistance from groups that worry that more trade will hurt their livelihoods .
an area which we are just beginning to think about , genetic engineering , will require global rules and restraints .
in recent years , a number of initiatives have been launched to help address such failures .
when the pon tif ical academy of sciences announced that it would organize a summit on refugees and migrants later this year , it stressed that mayors “ must be provided with the ability to meet the needs , accommodate , and regul ar ize all types of migrants or refugees . ”
those who view islamic extremism as the problem also tend to hold up young killers like mer ah as examples of failed integration .
“ i never thought i ’ d say this , ” one senior national security figure in new delhi said to me , “ but pervez mushar raf … may be india ’ s best hope for peace with pakistan . ”
the number of people working in science fields in the muslim world is also well below the global average .
and few in the arab world are likely to view advances in iranian nuclear technology with the same equ anim ity as developments in malaysia ’ s software industry .
at the recent asean foreign ministers ’ meeting in y ang on , it called for the coordination of humanitarian aid and an investigation into alleged atrocities committed against rohingya .
new delhi – in ways big and small , asia is still living with the tainted legacy of imperialism .
in biomed icine , a series of legal cases have generated powerful momentum toward the transfer of rights over the body and its component parts from the individual “ owner ” to corporations and research institutions .
either way , a rise in long-term interest rates is liable to cho ke off the recovery . the prospect of the greatly increased money supply turning into inflation is likely to lead to a period of stagflation .
by and large , the first group is more sophisticated and more western- oriented : it keeps its money and its children abroad .
this , then , is my plan to drop the bomb . global security challenges are serious enough without the risks from nuclear weapons or their acquisition by additional states or non-state actors . of course , strategic stability , trust among nations , and the settlement of regional conflicts would all help to advance the process of disarmament . yet disarmament has its own contributions to make in serving these goals and should not be postponed .
here the conventional wisdom moun ts its next line of defense : brazil is sitting on $ 3 60 billion of reserves , while argentina barely has $ 50 billion or so , plus the undis bur sed portion of the imf loan .
one of the primary goals of synthetic biology has been to create a platform , or ch ass is , to use as a foundation for building organisms designed for specific tasks .
rather , n- 11 was simply a label we applied to the next 11 most populous , highest- potential emerging economies after the brics .
if designed properly , all three have the potential to spur global growth .
the us international trade agency confirms that high sugar costs are a “ major factor in relocation decisions . ”
initially , the trump administration called for a provision requiring the new agreement to be renewed every five years , with sun set as the default option – an extreme demand that would have crippled the deal .
indeed , governments are often advised to impose tu ition as a form of “ cost recovery . ”
but how can nam help its members when nothing else unites them ?
strong and effective global financial institutions are still very much in america ’ s interest .
there are many reasons to treat the two types of investment differently .
but what caused the nation to right itself ?
why else would citizens across the developed world be so preoccupied with their economic competitiveness ?
liberals and social democrats supported a private- ownership economy , markets , european integration , and increased trade , tempered by substantially redistributive taxes and transfers , a strong social safety net , and some public ownership in areas such as infrastructure and finance .
even the latest euro barometer indicates that 55 % of poles view the eu positively .
mutually beneficial international arrangements governing flows of goods , capital , technology , and people ( the four key flows in the global economy ) are appropriate only when they reinforce – or , at least , don ’ t undermine – progress on meeting the highest priority .
the greens drew votes from the more moderate social democratic party , and the far-right alternative fü r deutsch land gained significant ground .
it is critical to look beyond a simple story of populism , of masses versus elites .
after the vote , britain ’ s home secretary am ber rud d suggested that firms hiring foreigners should be named and sh amed .
but by far the biggest problem that nato faces today is afghanistan .
conserv ing and restoring pe at lands could significantly reduce global co2 emissions , which is why , in 2015 , the nordic council of ministers announced a commitment to preserve the region ’ s pe at lands .
so were the profligate borrow -and- spend policies and the use of public-sector hiring to co- opt political factions , both of which resulted in lebanon ’ s massive debt problem .
in china , for example , extreme poverty has been cut from well over half of the population 30 years ago to around 10 % or less today .
the truth , however , is that the only way to ensure that “ new money ” is put into circulation is to have the government spend it .
when you hold a checking or current account in your bank at a zero interest rate – as most people do in advanced economies – the real return is negative ( the nominal zero return minus inflation ) : a year from now , your cash balances buy you less goods than they do today .
the fact is that the eurozone ’ s structure and the ecb ’ s policies have ensured that banks in the under performing countries , and especially in the crisis countries , are very weak .
beyond causing widespread physical suffering , nt ds have a severe long-term socioeconomic impact on millions of women and girls .
it is a country that we call israel and they call palestine .
during the dark est days of the soviet union , the chiefs of the n k v d were the country 's second most important officials .
virtue is the root ; wealth is the result .
india , too , supports an inclusive approach , having recognized from its own experience of managing diversity the importance of providing minority groups with a sense of security .
its bloody ten-year civil war , however , was seldom in the international lim el ight .
palestine is no different from iran , from this perspective .
the just- completed police inquir ies – co de- named “ case 10 00 ” and “ case 2000 ” – are not the only legal challenges netanyahu faces ; other corruption prob es are ongoing .
“ what happens to a dream deferred ?
as a result , palestinian leaders have for decades mobilized their society to out last israel .
with the advent of peace , we all hope that this bond will become consolidated around a common israeli citizenship .
that is 1 4- 65 times the amount of land the united states uses to grow corn for ethanol .
people have complex reasons for acting illegally .
the chinese people are educated and talented , and their country has great potential , with high economic growth rates and an industr ious work force .
but the similarities between anti-semitism then and now are glaring .
countries should deepen existing partnerships and strive to create new ones .
standard medical investigations of the causes of death are rare .
the speculative uncertainties associated with a “ grexit ” might well threaten other eurozone economies ( for example , cyprus and portugal ) , while greece , with a de valued dr ach ma , would find it painfully expensive to import the capital goods it needs to generate a broad base of high- wage jobs .
that said , the lion ’ s share of the responsibility for the emergence of a second cold war is russia ’ s , and above all vladimir putin ’ s .
on the other hand , un member states and people around the world are asking it to do more , in more places , than ever before – a trend that will continue in 2011 .
while i don ’ t see that happening anytime soon , japan could undertake two policies to in oc ulate itself against such concerns .
two decades of spreading global uncertainties have taught us a clear lesson : my neighbor ’ s weaknesses and my partner ’ s weaknesses are my own weaknesses .
in fact , oda disbur s ements have not been stable , reliable , or reflec tive of need , and doubts about their effectiveness ling er .
while they may not like this kind of dependence , they dislike even more the alternative : a “ fresh start ” in which the cards are st acked against their attainment of anything approaching what was once viewed as a basic middle-class lifestyle .
germany must finally start thinking of itself as the major economic player it is , and behave accordingly – prefer ably before new ministers settle into old rout ines .
they also struggled to pursue a united approach to azerbaijan and ukraine , and continued to seek a coherent approach to turkey as accession negotiations remained blocked .
a new grand coalition working alongside french president emmanuel macron ’ s government would make that possible .
for example , a new zealand government focused on wellbeing would direct more of its attention and resources to childhood poverty .
but the international community has a choice .
the scandals surrounding the top aides to lee – nic kn amed “ the bull doz er ” from his career as a construction industry executive – have complicated matters for the ruling sa en uri party ’ s candidate , park geun-hye , and buoyed the hopes of her leftist rival , moon ja e- in of the democratic united party .
in some cases , the development of norms among like-minded states can attract adherence by others at a later point .
there was quantitative easing ( qe ) , or purchases of long-term government bonds , once short-term rates were already zero .
after all , china is pursuing precisely this strategy , building cities for millions of people to create no des of economic and social activity across the countryside .
we should not del ude ourselves ; we can not solve all the problems of this crisis in the coming days .
the united states , europe , and japan have produced comparable amounts of wealth over the long term . yet their labor markets , cor ­ por ate governance , antitrust rules , social protection , and financial systems differ considerably , with a succession of these “ models ” – a different one each decade – ano in ted the great success to be em ulated .
serious problems confronting humanity are tackled only when stakeholders become full participants .
because social media companies , for all their power and potential , never developed the journ alistic capacities needed to displace traditional news media , the pendulum has changed direction .
indeed , no more than one in ten children with tb is diagnosed by s pu tum mic ros copy .
the costs to the us of allowing so many of its children to grow up in poverty , poor health , poor schools , and poor housing are staggering .
i named it in memory of my friend tom as so pad o a- sch i op pa , who , as italy ’ s central banker in the 1990 ’ s , helped to stabilize that country ’ s finances .
in pres ent- day bab yl on in chin at own , in little italy , in russian brigh ton beach , and in the al le ys and by ways of new york , all the world ’ s languages are spoken .
the euro was supposed to bring shared prosperity , which would enhance solidarity and advance the goal of european integration .
but that is where the similarity between him and powell ends .
to turn a feu dal kingdom into a modern nation-state , saudi arabia needs to address its internal weaknesses ; it does not need more comb ative alliances and colossal arms deals like the one its leaders signed with trump on his recent trip to riyadh .
this allowed for a faster and more orderly restructuring than otherwise would have been possible .
for every word that krugman publ ishes , he must h enc e forth commit to having first read at least a hundred words by other writers .
even od der is the relationship or tega has forged with the local business community .
the bank provided up front long-term zero- interest loans for the purchase of oral polio vaccines in nigeria and pakistan , while the other three organizations covered all service and commitment charges associated with the loans .
london – many people have long believed that if government and the private sector agreed to share their data more freely , and allow it to be processed using the right analytics , previously unimaginable solutions to countless social , economic , and commercial problems would emerge .
these efforts have the additional benefit of ensuring that nigeria cements its pol i o- free status .
rising food and energy prices pushed inflation up to 9. 7 % in may , from 8. 2 % in april .
moscow – throughout his years in power , ed u ard shev ard nad ze was known as the “ silver fox , ” a man who seemed to gli de effor t lessly from leader of soviet georgia and kremlin politburo member to mikhail gorbachev ’ s reform-minded foreign minister , before re emerging as post-soviet georgia ’ s pro-western president , ironically opposing gorbachev .
putin is only 61 , a decade younger than the leaders who led the soviet union to the precip ice , and the constitution permits him to remain in power for at least another ten years .
one sign of this is china ’ s lack of the necessary institutions and rules .
we do not , after all , have a normal administration that can be served hon or ably .
should we deal with the few remaining alawite leaders whose hands are not st ained with blood , or those members of assad ’ s clan who chose exile early and thus were not involved in the massacres ?
so , had britain adopted the euro , two things would have happened with certainty : there would be no uk referendum on eu membership , and greece would not be the domin o that fell first .
instead , the ldp , having failed to reinvigorate itself and attract allies , has occasionally taken a buc k- passing approach , such as permitting the dpj to pass an unpopular but inevitable and necessary increase in the consumption tax .
america ’ s f ond hope to contain terrorism regi onally promises instead to ensure that afghanistan and pakistan remain a fest ering threat to regional and global security .
indeed , according to the un high commissioner for refugees , 34 % of the 13 7,000 people who arrived in the eu from january 1 to june 29 were from syria , with the next- largest contributor , afghanistan , accounting for 12 % .
with blin kered analysis and misplaced concern , the academics essentially say that to reduce global warming slightly , we should end growth that can lift hundreds of millions out of poverty , avoid millions of air pollution deaths , and give billions the opportunity of a better life through improved health care , shelter , education , and income .
but , just before its takeover by microsoft , nokia actually built a line of and ro id -based phones called nokia x , which did not include google apps , but instead used nokia maps and microsoft search .
if a bank is too big to fail , regulators should go even further , and regulate proprietary traders ’ compensation packages to ensure that risks and rewards are properly aligned .
and they got good grades .
the democrats had argued that the increase in the debt ceiling and extension of appropri ations should last for only three months , thus forcing the republicans to take elector ally risky votes before the 2018 elections .
globalization is the only answer
and , finally , higher inflation causes distortions to relative prices and to the tax system – distortions that have potentially significant costs , and not just in recessions .
the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive in the first place was driven by market price signals – by the incentives those signals created for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms .
but now japan ’ s political and economic influence in south east asia is gradually declining , owing in part to its failure to exert influence over security and defense matters .
will kim respond to that isolation reck lessly , by continuing to antagon ize the south , or pragm atically , by becoming more flexible ?
following kim ’ s response , sanctions should be tightened even further , to stop all trade with north korea , including halting all fuel imports .
six ty years after the end of the korean war , south korea is well equipped to take the lead in the event of a north korean collapse .
to be sure , claims that the north was showing restraint were clearly premature : north korea has since fired three short- range ballistic missiles from its east coast into the sea , and , more ominously , launched a ballistic missile over northern japan .
but as the two us allies , who were once bitter enemies , improve their bilateral security relationship , china and russia both fear that a close us- japan- south korea alliance could emerge as the equivalent of a mini- nato to their east .
as we know , of course , life in north korea is anything but am using .
the us and south korea have also canceled military exercises and relaxed their force posture , respectively , easing the pressure on the kim regime .
a us commitment not to attack north korea with conventional or nuclear weapons was also included in the deal .
rather than a potent arsenal with credible long-range capabilities , it would have an unreliable arsenal with potentially no min i at ur ized nuclear warheads .
so , like in 1962 , there is a need for a strategic solution .
it may not be true for much longer .
nonetheless , north korea has shown little interest in reform .
now it appears that china is beginning to lose patience .
a second set of options would employ military force , either against a gathering north korean threat or one judged to be imminent .
but all nuclear powers would have to for swe ar so much as threatening to use nuclear weapons on the korean peninsula .
the united states first tried to resolve the issue back in 1994 , with the us- north korean agreed framework ; but that effort gradually collapsed , owing to actions taken – and not taken – on both sides .
kim ky ong- hui has returned to the methods of her father , the dynasty ’ s founder , kim il- sung , who viewed party control as the most convenient and reliable means of exercising power .
the constitution ’ s writers were undoubtedly aware that jews had long been persecuted in other countries , but they concluded that it was not norway ’ s problem .
when corruption hurts partners with that level of clout , it hurts you , too .
since china ’ s multilateral surplus is the economic issue and many countries are concerned about it , the us should seek a multilateral , rules-based solution .
for example , in july , the international monetary fund comm end ably announced a substantial increase in conc essional lending to least- developed countries .
the writer james bal d win put the case for “ progressive ” patriotism well : he loved america more than any country in the world , and for that reason insisted on the right to criticize her perpe tually .
first , the middle east turmoil could affect global markets if one or more terrorist attack were to occur in europe or the us – a plausible development , given that several hundred islamic state jihadists are reported to have european or us pass ports .
moreover , the deep causes of last year ’ s turmoil in emerging markets have not disappeared .
nor does it include asia ’ s geopolitical risks arising from the territorial disputes between china and many of its neighbors , including japan , the philippines , south korea , and vietnam .
russia ’ s lack of reform and adverse demographic trends imply low potential growth and insufficient financial resources to create the fiscal and transfer union that is needed to bring other countries in .
the fed ’ s exit from qe will be slow , keeping interest rates low .
similarly , the risk of deflation worldwide has been contained via ex otic and unconventional monetary policies : near-zero interest rates , quantitative easing , credit easing , and forward guidance .
but this year is different .
as sa unders and his colleagues observe in their journal article , “ this was the case in the uk in 17 00 , is the case in the un developed world not on grid electricity in modern times , and is the case for the developed world in modern times using the most advanced lighting technologies . ”
as my colleagues and i put it in our boo k- length report nuclear weapons : the state of play 2015 , launched in geneva , vienna , and washington in march : “ on the evidence of the size of their weapons arsenals , fis s ile material stocks , force modernization plans , stated doctrine and known deployment practices , all nine nuclear-armed states foresee indefinite re tention of nuclear weapons and a continuing role for them in their security policies . ”
to that end , it is vital that neither country modern izes its nuclear arsenal in a way that is seen as expanding its nuclear capabilities .
the problem is that fusion involves joining two positively charged nucle i – and , as basic science shows , sam e- sign charges rep el each other .
and china ’ s approach toward north korea seems to be changing , spurred by the nuclear issue .
if indi a �� s demand is acceptable , why should other technologically advanced npt signatories , such as brazil , egypt , saudi arabia , and japan – to say nothing of less responsible nations – continue to restrain themselves ?
and , by doing so , it has cem ented its status as a rogue state .
rather , it is that our most deadly weapons could be compromised in an instant .
the united nations has declared 201 6- 2025 the “ decade of action on nutrition , ” and the un ’ s sustainable development goals encourage comprehensive strategies for improving health , eliminating hunger , and promoting sustainable agriculture .
the elections earlier this year , which many at first assumed were a sham , now appear to have produced changes to which asia ’ s countries will need to collectively and individually respond .
if we are to get our policies right , it is crucial that we get our facts right .
president-elect obama has shown pragmatism and realism , and seems to understand that accepting limitations is not weakness ; refusal to acknowledge reality is .
voters concluded that even his own party no longer supported him , and his popularity fell further .
if european sensitivities must be assu aged , greece ’ s debt repayment could be drawn out over 100 years .
in syria , a central element of such an approach would have been engagement with assad .
given the kim regime ’ s past negotiating tactics , obama is understandably reluctant to launch any new diplomatic initiative and may well believe that negotiating with north korea would provide his domestic political opponents with ammunition to ruin his iran deal .
actually , he has not handled them very much , at least not in public .
in this sense , congressional intransigence may have undermined america ’ s position in its competition with china for global power and influence .
in truth , his visit to africa is a reward to his stal war t african-american supporters , who voted overwhelmingly for him in the november election and who remain one pillar of his base .
of course , even leaders who are more like obama than trump struggle to ap prise themselves of everything that is going on .
obama ’ s visit to india can help to realize that relationship ’ s potential .
the same middle- of-the- road approach can be taken in the second year to address the still- outstanding fiscal issues .
moreover , it was under truman that the first great step in america ’ s civil- rights revolution , the des egreg ation of the army , took place .
he would likely accomplish far more if , instead , he offered an explicit promise that the us would come to the gcc countries ’ defense against external aggression in all its forms .
but , come election day , many ( if not most ) americans are likely to ignore recent history and vote against the incumbent .
second , obama did not seriously seek to resolve existing us-china economic disagreements , particularly over trade .
but obama might soon realize that most of his predecessors started as believers in international cooperation , until events forced them to fall back on a strategy of confrontation .
pand ering to israel ’ s un compromising policies may be the easiest way for america ’ s democratic president to avoid trouble in an election year .
he has registered the us congress ’ s hostility toward iran and the desire to confront the islamic republic militarily .
the new strategic arms- reduction treaty , which is still a work in progress , and the ctbt have already ar oused skepticism from opposition legislators and opin i on- makers .
a man without a plan
obama managed two other major achievements before republican obstruc tion ism took hold : the dodd-frank financial reform bill and the affordable care act ( aca , also known as “ obamacare ” ) .
obama ’ s proposals to boost job creation are convincing , whereas romney ’ s proposals would have little or no effect – and some could even make matters worse .
and , given similar per capita income levels and cultural ori ent ations , overl aps in production and consumption are considerable .
applied appropriately and with a healthy dose of common sense , economics would have prepared us for the financial crisis and pointed us in the right direction to fix what caused it .
policymakers can respond in three ways .
the fact that they didn ’ t not only shocked the moral sentiments of many , but also revealed a fundamental def ect in sovereign debt markets ’ institutional architecture .
cyber security is regarded as complicated and costly ; but cyber offense is seen as inexpensive and sex y .
min dless subsidies that we can not afford will not create a green economy ; what will is investment in research and development to bring down costs , so that green energy eventually can out compete gas .
but it is costly in terms of both money and energy : a coal-fired power station that adopts ccs must burn even more coal in order to produce the same amount of energy .
after the explo sions at deep water horizon and ix to c , oil and gas under high pressure entered the water at the se ab ed .
as a first step , the gcc states are moving toward new tax regimes in early 2018 , including a value-added tax , a corporation tax , property taxes , and taxes on fuel , tobacco , and alcohol .
growth in the eurozone will be based on the resulting increase in domestic demand , rather than exports .
any economics textbook would recommend exactly this outcome .
a decline in oil prices is to some extent a zero-sum game , with producers losing and consumers gaining .
my answer is that oil companies need to complete the commodity- analysis quest that i started but never finished .
total health-care spending in the united states is expected to reach $ 4.8 trillion – nearly one-fifth of gdp – in 2021 , up from $ 2.6 trillion in 2010 and $ 75 billion in 1970 .
first , and most obviously , the supposed turn to the left is running out of steam , fast .
in september , india adopted a landmark law on food security , guaranteeing five kilograms of subsidized wheat , rice , and other fo od stu ffs monthly for two-thirds of the population , and enhancing support for pregnant women , schoolchildren , and the elderly .
cuba is out of the question as a patron , due to its pre occupation with raúl castro ’ s efforts to reshape its depleted economy in an im probable bid for chinese- style capitalism in a one-party state .
as in sports , so in economic life : government commitment can start a virtuous circle of success , while government neglect can trigger a vicious circle of decline .
even the recent earthquake in sichuan revealed how chinese politics are changing .
and what accounts for south korea ’ s exceptional performance if not a coherent sports policy ?
since taking power in 2012 , xi has increasingly centralized power , while tightening censorship and using anti-corruption prob es to take down political enemies .
the final question is what such a eurozone banking union would mean for the single financial market , and especially for eu countries that are outside the single currency .
when japan ’ s government recently decided to ignore chinese protests and allow taiwan ’ s former president , lee t eng - hui , to visit japan , china l ashed out at its asian neighbor , even threatening retaliation . but this latest dispute is characteristic of a remarkable fl ur ry of anti-japanese activity in china since 2003 .
while house hol d- sector debt was pr un ed to 1 15 % of disposable personal income in early 2011 from the peak of 130 % hit in 2007 , it remains well in excess of the 75 % average of the 197 0- 2000 period .
san francisco – this is an age of anxiety about the job- killing effects of automation , with dire headlines warning that the rise of robots will render entire occupational categories obsolete .
witness the recent car - bomb attacks in a hezb oll ah -controlled neighborhood of beirut and in the northern city of tripoli .
those users have contributed to the collection of millions of network measurements , all of which are published on o on i explor er , arguably the largest publicly available resource on internet censorship .
saudi arabia killed it .
of course , repl icating studies is crucial , and science is now plagued by a re pro du ci bility crisis .
costa rica ’ s climate change port al is just one example of how improved access to information can stream line urban planning .
not only is foreign capital conspicuously absent , but so are foreign managers , workers , intellectuals , and ideas .
these will include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded gener ics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutr ac eu ticals ” and other “ well ness options . ”
it is possible that of s will displace rather than develop low-income areas , and that the lion ’ s share of the benefits will accrue to investors and developers who already have stakes in locations that qualify for o z design ation .
the eu ’ s mafia state
america remains indispensable ; alas , it has allowed the notion that it is un available for duty to take root .
for example , china and the us reached a bilateral agreement restricting cyber espionage for commercial purposes .
in 1990 , he co- wrote a paper about executive pay , arguing that it was not sufficiently linked to performance .
london – there is a growing apprehension among britain ’ s financial pundits that chancellor of the exchequer george osborne is not nearly as determined to cut public spending as he pre tends to be .
but try naming a country that has sustained an economic transformation without advances in education .
the german leadership question
there are several reasons why the g-20 world has become a g- zero world .
along this path , many potential drugs are withdrawn , and even successfully tested drugs face the additional hurd le of regulatory approval .
so , when unprecedented extreme weather events occur , the prime suspect is naturally the biggest atmospheric change that has happened over the past hundred years – one that has been caused by human emissions .
moreover , barack obama ’ s insistence that iraq has never constituted a central front in the war on terror insul ts the memory of tens of thousands – perhaps hundreds of thousands – of iraqi civilians and us troops murdered by al-qaeda ’ s suicide bombers since 2003 .
emerging markets will have to ensure that they are not vulnerable .
to be sure , africa is a far better place to do business than five years ago .
but , if the country doesn ’ t manage such a rebalancing , the long-term cost of brexit might turn out to be substantially higher than current estimates .
though it is mathem atically impossible for bernie sanders to win enough pledged delegates to capture the democratic nomination , he is staying in the race , which means that hillary clinton can not yet begin her healing effort .
so , last december , i sought to introduce a bill that would have am ended section 3 77 and dec rim in alized all consensual sex between adults , ir respective of their gender and sexuality .
getting past slow growth
but such an allocation would implicitly transfer hundreds of billions of dollars from rich to poor .
s ally enters am anda ’ s address in the mag hic le app , and the robot chooses the best route .
by abandoning ambiguity and taking its own bomb out of the “ bas ement , ” israel might be able to affir m its capacity for nuclear deterrence more convinc ingly , and , more importantly , enhance a serious debate about the urgency of a nuclear- free zone in the middle east .
the best candidate for this role may well be the joint un employ ment- insurance scheme .
sha h id k ha q an abb asi  – a well-educated former petroleum minister , who is regarded as a skillful manager – is now serving as interim prime minister . that could mean that he will serve for 45 days – long enough to elect sha h ba z sharif , nawaz sharif ’ s younger brother , as pakistan ’ s next leader .
there is a clear need for systemic reform of all aspects of pakistan ’ s energy system .
new imf funding will no doubt lead khan ’ s government to repeat past mistakes .
the government issued no a formal statement about z ad ari ’ s health , but his supporters disclosed that he had suffered a mild stroke , which left him unconscious for several minutes .
not only has the expansion of primary and secondary education been linked to accelerated economic growth , poverty eradication , and improved income equality , but education also appears to be closely associated with social enrichment and inclusion , the upgrading of human capital , increased opportunities , and enhanced freedom and welfare .
in iran , apart from senior commanders , who were either killed or fled the country , the shah ’ s powerful , staun ch ly secular army switched sides to khomeini ’ s revolutionary government virtually overnight .
two key actors behind the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks in the united states – osama bin laden and khal id she ik mohammed – were found ens con ced in pakistan .
it remains to be seen , however , whether he will be progressive enough .
one is ji br il raj ou b , imprisoned for 19 years and de ported in the first intifada , only to return to lead one of the security services after the pa was established .
for netanyahu , incitement is a powerful political tool .
jerusalem – although the crisis over israel ’ s naval interventions to defend its blockade of gaza is gaining all the headlines around the world , something of far more historic importance is taking place in the middle east .
any new leader must spur the economy , enforce the rule of law , fight corruption , unify the pa ’ s security agencies , and preserve public safety – and he must do so quickly or lose authority .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and a canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ?
this was the case for both yellen and flu g – until the preferred , male applic ants dropped out .
an execu tive- legislative agreement would have the same status as a treaty , except that a treaty must be ratified by two-thirds of the senate , whereas an execu tive- legislative agreement must be adopted by the senate and the house under the same rules that apply to all domestic legislation .
every country ’ s emissions must peak , decline , and eventually reach zero .
clarity of analysis is what we now need the most .
a drought in syria understandably makes news .
for example , it makes little sense that airlines – which actually serve just 7 % of the global population – are exempt from paying fuel taxes , especially at a time when ticket prices are at an historic low .
but the best way to address these fairness concerns is through the agreed emissions targets .
as we reflect on that success , one thing is abundantly clear : the need for ambitious coalitions has returned .
this is , in one sense , an admission of failure ; such an approach is unlikely to limit the rise in global temperatures to less than 2 ° celsius , the target set by the united nations in 2010 .
india , the world ’ s third-largest em itter , has pledged to reduce emissions intensity by 3 3- 35 % from 2005 levels , and generate 40 % of its power from non- fossil-fuel sources , by 2030 .
paris – “ france ’ s 9/ 11 . ” in the immediate aftermath of the massacre at the s ati r ical magazine charlie he b do , the comparison with al qaeda ’ s 2001 attack on the united states has taken hold across france .
the efficiency of this model is apparent in the chaebols ’ success as “ fast followers ” of top us and japanese firms .
occupational exposure to hydro carbon- containing solv ents , such as n- h ex ane , has been associated with ear li er- age onset of par kinson ’ s .
international affairs and international organizations largely operate under mid- twentieth-century arrangements , which has two serious shortcomings .
lag os – nigeria has been getting a lot of bad press lately , owing largely to the militant islamist group boko haram ’ s abduction of more than 200 school girls in april , part of a brutal campaign of kidn appings , bombings , and murder .
we know what success will look like for our region ’ s citizens .
samuelson was a convinced keynesian , though in a limited sense .
so , if two platforms that appear to be performing similar services are complementary – for example , because one platform connects consumers with a set of users that helps them to value another set of users more highly – market entry can be bad for consumers .
sub-saharan africa is the only region where women still do not en roll in or graduate from tertiary education at the same rates as men .
in large countries , the fear of being on the losing side is not out weighed by people ’ s appreciation that the country as a whole will do better .
all to no av ail .
and yet there is something unique about the holocaust that made the united nations single it out and devote a special day to its commemor ation .
it would be helpful if the t aba understanding or the more recent efforts by abbas and former israeli prime minister ehud olmert could become the basis for direct talks .
but making a settlement freeze a precondition for negotiations was obviously unacceptable to the israeli government , which maintained that no preconditions for negotiations should be set .
a shift in focus to economic development will save a vast number of lives and convert the un thin k ably large economic costs of war into economic benefits through development .
in brazil , too , the authorities acquired greater control over the internet , as the country moved to the forefront of the international fight against cyber crime .
for the past month , women in georgia who were displaced from abkhazia during the 1993 conflict have witnessed history moving back wards ; everything they lived through 15 years ago is repeating itself .
the economic situation , which is still very precarious , with many people living close to starvation , constitutes another key challenge .
and so the fed , under ben bernanke ’ s leadership , turned to the liquidity injections of quantitative easing , making it even more of a cre ature of financial markets .
by establishing “ education can not wait ” , we are sending a message to the down cast and dis possessed everywhere .
consequently , the prestige of the taliban and other militant groups operating in the area has grown .
francis is certainly in a strong position to initiate such a shift ; his political capital is extraordinarily high , sur passing even that of us president barack obama in his early days in office .
genetically modified crops are now grown on about one- tenth of the world ’ s cro pl and , and none of the disastrous consequences that we greens feared have come to pass .
last month , someone bought one of those variations for $ 84 million .
others defend stalin ’ s greatness on the basis of his role in rep elling the nazi invasion and ultimately defeating hitler .
if a majority of the voters in a distinct region of a country favor independence , does that mean that they have a right to sec ede ?
how many other disciplines can say that ?
the company expected that its critics would give up .
si kor ski has had the last l augh .
the group ’ s proposal – which includes lower remitt ance costs , increased pension port ability , and strong action against human trafficking – calls for a specific set of targets and indicators , which would substantially enrich the next development agenda .
such large numbers of deaths in and around europe should do more than briefly seize headlines .
but there is a growing sense in the european council that cameron is ab using this goodwill .
and , as a result , banks are being hit with regulatory constraints that limit some aspects of their business .
meg af un ding drug research
is it really any wonder that popular support for the governing parties that compli ed with this di k tat plunged from 69 % in the 2009 european parliament election to 31 % in 2014 , that a far- left coalition demanding debt justice top ped the poll , or that the neo- nazi golden dawn party finished third ?
the ber lin -based di w institute calcul ates that from 2006 to 2012 , the value of germany ’ s foreign portfolio holdings fell by € 600 billion , or 22 % of gdp .
they serve as a reminder that disaster preparedness is not an op tional luxury ; it is a constant , intensive process that is necessary to save lives , protect infrastructure , and safeguard development .
reform of the ip regime is a valid us concern .
although it ill um inated the flaws of america ’ s political system , it also restored my belief in the compassion of ordinary americans .
but the reality is that i still own one house and my neighbor still owns two .
that recent new york times headline might sound like the syn op s is of a horror movie .
since then , governments worldwide have recognized the potential of water infrastructure to complement other economic and social policies , including those intended to improve health outcomes .
while no one in venezuela or abroad can be sure how maduro will go , it seems increasingly clear that he will .
africa ’ s towns and cities have been growing at some of the world ’ s fastest rates , but their absolute size is so small that they can absorb only a fraction of all new workers .
with 82 % of municipal waste now separated at source , just 18 % of residual waste ends up in land fills .
examining work patterns in these diverse countries yields three key lessons .
newly emboldened , the government pledged to crackdown on groups that engage in violence , and announced plans to empower authorities to dis band organizations that threaten ‘ security and order . ’
to speak of human rights is not politics ; only authoritarian and totalitarian regimes try to make it so .
though a vaccine for p neu mo coc cal infection – a leading cause of pneumonia – was developed at the turn of the century , it is not included in routine immunization programs in five of the countries where pneumonia is most pervasive ( chad , china , india , indonesia , and somalia ) .
during the po government ’ s eight years in power , poland ’ s gdp grew by almost 25 % , while unemployment and the budget deficit fell by almost half .
as president , l ech kacz yn ski was an enemy of anti-semitism in poland and celebrated han uk k ah in a syn agogue .
even polish president andr ze j du da has acknowledged that there are two sides to poland ’ s wwii history .
but that assumption ’ s flaws have now been laid bare .
mor awi ecki is not exactly known for his t act or foresight .
she notes that children are “ un critical and innocent , ” and that “ shame only comes with socialization . ”
in 1998 , however , prosperity vanished .
meanwhile , the renowned polish fil m maker agn ies z ka holland issued a strong rebu ke against liberal media outlets that would attribute pi o tr  ’ s protest to mental illness .
india has responded to this external volatility by trying to create a domestic platform of macroeconomic stability on which to build growth .
since then , however , a long , stubborn “ tail ” of infection has persisted , mainly in remote , poor regions and conflict zones .
meanwhile , the us government is focusing on supporting the development of new drugs via the biomedical advanced research and development authority .
while it is hard to detect the trump administration ’ s priorities at this point , it would be hard to argue that they include a concerted and narrow focus on policies designed to make growth patterns more equitable and sustainable .
power by itself has no principles .
the heart breaking story of my childhood friend , chris si e , is illustr ative .
in all aspects of life , we should insist on a scientific process that bases decisions on accumulated observations .
the first election campaign that i got involved in was some 50 years ago , in new york , where all of today ’ s candidates – republican and democrat – recently traded blows , with trump and democratic fron tr unner hillary clinton emerging triumph ant .
kur z , for his part , has bent the entire ö v p to his will .
their arrogance – recall clinton ’ s description of trump voters as “ a basket of depl or ables ” – has not helped .
and , as in egypt , the protracted transition risks faltering under the weight of rising political violence and socioeconomic decline .
madrid – among the numerous challenges the west faces , one is consistently overlooked : its addiction to meaningless rhetoric .
it would be a mistake , however , to think of the pe k os as today ’ s equivalent of the “ great dictators ” of the 1930s .
in other words , today 's mounting threats can not be covered up .
but china ’ s remarkable success has b red its own problems , which should be addressed sooner rather than later .
meanwhile , the migration crisis threatens germany ’ s government ; spl its are now deepening within chancellor angela merkel ’ s party , which is losing popular support .
seattle – even in good financial times , development aid budgets are hardly over flowing .
uganda , for example , took in more refugees from south sudan in 2016 than the total number of migrants crossing the mediterranean into europe over the same period .
low-income african countries can sustain moderate rates of productivity growth into the future , on the back of steady improvements in human capital and governance . continued convergence with rich-country income levels seems achievable .
since the early part of the twentieth century – and , most clearly , since john paul ii ’ s pap acy ( 197 8- 2005 ) – the traditional dominance of italy and other european countries in the locations of blessed persons has wan ed .
who could oppose such an obvious win-win proposition ?
but those assets will never attain their full value if they are not documented .
before and during his visit to the us , his views on three issues – none of which is without controversy in the us – will have a particularly strong impact .
the two are linked .
that is not an appealing deal , to say the least .
for several decades , growth has served as a substitute for sensible social cohesion policies .
already , the share of italian two- year- olds who have been in oc ulated against measles is under 80 % , well below the world health organization ’ s recommended threshold of 95 % .
voters are attracted to political outsiders – the more authoritarian the better – who promise to “ drain the sw amp . ”
of course , europe is not alone in being swept up by populism .
if europe ’ s leaders are to inspire their people to build a shared future , they must demonstrate an understanding of what that future has in store – and how to make the most of it .
bu cha rest – i recently joined a tour in bu cha rest of the palace of parliament , the gigantic folly built in the 1980s on the orders of the late romanian dictator nicol ae ce au ş escu , who was executed before he could see it finished .
the severity of the effects will depend on how the uk and its european partners negotiate their tricky separation , particularly the extent to which free trade and financial pass porting are upheld .
nonetheless , it is not a particularly reliable tool for balancing income distribution .
yet traditional patri arch al systems are still blocking women from contributing as much as they otherwise could , and without more data , we can not see where those block ages are occurring .
these may all sound like obvious no str ums , but governments have mostly done the opposite .
once oil and soy bean prices collapsed , according to this view , no anti-democratic an tics short of su spending elections ( which was intens ely ru mored in venezuela ) could save the populists from defeat .
he is everything that nativ ists and anti-sem ites hate : rich , cosmopolitan , jewish , and a liberal dedicated to what karl pop per , yet another child of jewish origin from the au stro - hungarian empire , called “ the open society . ”
the only question is which city will win the race to replace london .
in a brexit scenario , the uk ’ s intelligence ties with the us would probably become even stronger , regardless of any new limitations on its access to intelligence from some eu member countries .
the key to boosting those gains , according to the i ad b , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and within markets .
why should this historic event cause such political upheaval ?
even the germans play the passing game with fl air and imagination .
originally a concept created by economists for economists , its use for determining when , and by how much , a public deficit must be corrected is becoming a matter for wider discussion .
to help people escape , human development strategies must consider how to bolster personal agency , aspiration , and self- efficacy – the belief in one ’ s ability to influence events that affect one ’ s life .
yet glob alism and patriotism are not incompatible concepts .
britain has a less traumatic recent history .
it is principally focused on access to medical care , and typically faces diminishing returns .
rather than searching for overarching rules or a grand theory , look instead for what is likely to work – and make policy accordingly .
but this is impossible . there is no future free of risk .
but , in the context of algorithms , machine learning , and ai , humanity can not afford to wait .
whether an “ establishment ” figure – one backed by the party leadership , such as former florida governor je b bush or new jer sey governor chr is chris tie – can catch on with voters will become clearer only after i ow a and new hamp shire have voted .
but europe and the western world must also cooperate more closely with key muslim countries .
the tea party movement exploited this resentment , and obama is now on the defensive .
a japan that had , over the next 12 months , truly embraced the growth-enhancing strategy of liberalization that has often been promised by prime minister shinzo abe would be in a stronger position .
as secretary of state condoleez za rice said recently in paris : “ i use the word ‘ power ’ broadly , because even more important than military and indeed economic power is the power of ideas , the power of compassion , and the power of hope . ”
this , clearly , is no longer the problem ; on the contrary , the financial sector today is one of the fed ’ s last staunch defenders .
the us has had the good fortune of choosing largely from among presidential aspir ants who adhere to generally accepted norms .
and a huge number of organizations aid journalists in distress in the middle east , in eastern europe , and elsewhere .
to understand what is at stake , consider the distinction between “ narrow ai ” and “ artificial general intelligence ” ( ag i ) .
yet subsequent actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise concerns about these early positive steps .
war is strengthening the hand of those who regard terror as the only effective weapon , thus creating a breeding ground for more violence , insecurity , and extremism across the middle east .
unpredictable shifts in supply and demand will , of course , cause fluctuations within this trading range , which past experience suggests could be quite large .
so when the five-year price starts moving in a different direction than the spot price , i take notice .
in july , the united nations will hold a conference on financing for development in addis ababa , ethiopia .
at the africa finance corporation ( af c ) , reducing poverty on the african continent through private-sector initiative is our mission .
but are the incentives provided by the patent system appropriate , so that all this money is well spent and contributes to treatments for diseases of the greatest concern ?
in laboratory r ats , swe et ness even sur passes cocaine as a co ve ted reward .
given this , governments should devote resources to reducing inequality , regardless of the shifting preferences of the average citizen .
“ techno- optimists , ” for their part , believe that ict advances do have the potential to drive rapid productivity growth ; their benefits are merely subject to lags and come in waves .
indeed , there has been a new wave of heated discussion about whether companies should put profits or the common good first .
third , asset- light , heavily dig itized firms have a much larger presence in the us than they did even a decade ago .
it is thus time for a radical change , one that replaces traditional anti- monopoly laws with legislation man dating a wider dis pers al of share holding within each company .
at the same time , tu ition costs are clim bing much faster than median family incomes across the board .
furthermore , many states are exploring the possibility of making disclosure rules permanent through constitutional amendments .
globalization has not lifted all boats .
the ni h action still needs to be ratified by the director , francis coll ins .
migration reform is not for the f ain t- hear ted .
even the us lost its a aa standing .
a student of the egyptian style of koran rec itation , he ga thers koran rec it ers from egypt , as well as from other islamic countries , in his home every ram ad an .
for example , both turkey and greece could reduce their military spending ( though naturally to varying degrees , given their respective geopolitical environments ) .
what if , with only gene sequ ences , scientists could “ anim ate ” the appropriate genetic material ?
sand m ounds are particularly advantageous , given coastal areas ’ economic value .
that implies a transparent rule of law , and competent , conservative , and countercyclical macroeconomic management .
“ there is great danger that the system will break down … or that it will collapse in a grim re play of the 1930s . ”
in our own time , the emigration of capital has led to the emigration of jobs , as technology transfer has made possible the real location of domestic production to foreign locations – thus compounding the potential for job losses .
the french chamber of depu ties was outraged by american taxation of french speci alty exports and urged an economic war against the us .
at the margin , the us and europe might have some scope to make trade fairer , as trump says he will do .
whether we will overcome our inclination to choose otherwise remains to be seen .
beyond the am pe d-up military and the powerful security services , there is now the national guard of the russian federation , or ros g var di ya , a contingent of some 3 40,000 personnel created by putin in 2016 that answers directly to him .
developing countries must implement more effective mechanisms for monitoring the agro chemicals that are in circulation .
according to the international monetary fund , more than 45 % of low-income countries are either in or near debt distress .
graphic images of the damage that smoking causes can counter- balance the power of these appeals to the unconscious , thereby facilitating more deliber ative decision-making and making it easier for people to stick to a resolution to quit smoking .
that brings us to the third factor behind the global economy 's anemic performance : underinvestment , particularly by the public sector .
that means that m t va – which runs television stations , a radio network , and a news agency – had a daily budget of $ 8 4 6,000 .
a threat to turn from talks to tanks must be credible , which it will not be if an opposing player can simply count votes to see if the necessary legislative majority exists .
innovative approaches can pop up almost anywhere , and government has a critical role to play in promoting them : rig or ously evaluating programs , scaling up those that work , and withdrawing funding from those that do not .
the result is frigh ten ingly familiar to anyone who has studied eastern european history .
puerto rico should , over time , become more like one of the 50 states in its fiscal relationship with the federal government .
the value of fiscal multipliers depends on how the economy is performing .
the key issues are strategic , organizational , and regulatory .
in 2011 , ku dr in resigned as finance minister after publicly suggesting that medvedev was an incompetent fool .
what if they quar rel ?
bold , comprehensive reforms of the type proposed by the liberal former finance minister alex ei ku dr in are not in the cards .
put inism in crisis
the soviet union was an unsustainable empire ; if it could not survive at a time when isolation and bi polarity were the order of the day , it certainly could not be recre ated within today ’ s interconnected multipolar global system .
as merkel correctly fores aw , the migration crisis has the potential to destroy the eu .
it lacks legitimacy and its members are unknown .
in his 1946 long tel e gram , which marked the start of the cold war , the united states diplomat george f. kennan understood that the communist party line did “ not represent the natural outlook of russian people . ”
but , like the pol onium attack a decade ago , the first- time use of a sophisticated nerve agent , nov ich ok , did not go un detected , and the kremlin is now resorting to a crude arsenal of lies and disinformation to try to hide its tracks .
putin ’ s previous vote record was the 50 million or so that he received in 2004 .
far from embracing change , putin will seek a fourth term in next year ’ s presidential election – a race he will surely win , given the kremlin ’ s control over the media and the courts .
throughout the tour , the american answered with pol ite ex clam ations like “ ex qu isite ” or “ striking . ”
many of the law ’ s supporters want it to replace the so-called jack son- van ik amendment , a cold war- era law that restric ts us trade with russia – and that the obama administration is pushing to repeal .
this is the as ef effect in action .
it is enough to make even the cynical shake their heads in dis belief .
furthermore , while russia has finally joined the world trade organization , doubts about the country ’ s human-rights record persist .
russia is no enemy of the west ; vladimir putin is .
“ indeed , time to initiate world war iii , ” en th uses putin .
putting lebanon together
today , bahrain ’ s sunni rulers desp ise qatar ’ s friendly ties with iran , accusing the islamic republic of fom enting unrest among bahrain ’ s major ity- shia population .
nasser re plies “ poison ” ; sadat says “ assassination ” ; and mubarak answers “ al jazeera . ”
unfortunately , this leaves plenty of room for distortion and bias .
finally , the fed and the ecb were saying that markets will not quickly restore full employment on their own .
judging by the overwhelming victory of abe 's liberal democratic party in a
for most countries , such small differences would be spl itting ha irs .
the ceo needs to be talking about the business of the company to its workforce , investors , and the wider world , not be stuck at the ag m defending the executive team ’ s salaries .
after all , without appropriate statistics , it is difficult to prove discrimination .
but rac i alized drugs ? they may be coming soon , accompanied by the retro grade racial thinking - with its full range of dangerous assumptions and historical associations - that molecular biology was supposed to have dis p elled .
and they believe that their racial or religious “ supremacy ” justifies the sub jug ation , and even enslav ement , of others .
with very few exceptions , the countries that have been attacked are those that have been engaged in the post- 1990 western -led military operations in afghanistan , iraq , libya , and syria .
as long as fidel is around – writing , meeting foreign dign itar ies , and weighing in on everything from ethanol to the american presidential campaign – two things will remain clear .
his own links with the scand al- plagued g up ta family will feature prominently .
but they might well be mis reading their citizens ’ concerns .
it is as if intelligence has become to tem ic in our culture .
but we already know that actions taken by governments , donors , and development partners will determine the way forward .
if not , however , they may be forced out with no compensation .
indeed , it is here that russia ’ s renewed confrontation with the west begins , because the new europe is based on the principle of the in viol ability of boundaries , peaceful conflict resolution , and the rule of law , so to for go this principle for the benefit of imperial zones of influence would amount to self- abandonment .
for iran , this development would be tantamount to a strategic worst-case scenario , bringing about its definitive isolation .
while these applications are important , they are fairly limited in scope .
by withdrawing from international agreements and trying to renegotiate existing trade deals , the us has already become less predictable .
in other words , an autocr at ruling over an impoverished country with an oil- addic ted economy smaller than that of brazil is supposed to be capable of bringing down the world ’ s major democracies .
that said , iran must still bring all of these programs together , and that can not happen un detected .
but if the rules-based order is to survive , it must resonate in people ’ s hearts , as well as their heads .
as i have argued before , the endgame to the financial bailouts and fiscal expansion will almost certainly mean higher interest rates , higher taxes , and , quite possibly , inflation .
there are leaders in the organization for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) who are also willing to take part .
in most countries , the wellbeing of the majority depends on the willingness of capitalists , entrepreneurs , managers , and professionals to organize production and create jobs .
this would distribute the burden of the syrian crisis over a larger number of states , while also establishing global standards for dealing with the problems of forced migration more generally .
in the adult s ong bird brain , we can find at any moment many little migr ating neurons ready to replace cells that have died .
the economist ra j che tty has been g aug ing the improvement people have made over what their parents had .
recession geopolitics
in a recent paper , mark kam str a and i proposed that governments issue shares in their gdp , with each share amounting to a tril lion th of gdp .
but fatah and hamas still differ fundamentally on how to form a government tasked to prepare elections .
most commentary on the anniversary has been negative , suggesting that the agreement bears considerable blame for the frequency and dur ability of the region ’ s conflicts .
second , she claimed that there had been vote rigg ing “ on both sides , ” and suggested that the true election results were very close and that perhaps kib aki had won .
but world leaders should take them seriously .
the silence was lam entable , but not surprising ; tracking donor funds is extremely difficult .
sadly , none of these high-profile investors seems to have objected to redd it ’ s hosting of sub redd its called “ whit en ati onalism , ” “ rap e is fun , ” “ bur n ing kids , ” “ cut ef em al ec or p ses , ” and so on .
a radical re assessment of work , skill formation , retirement , and leisure is needed , with several principles forming the core of any comprehensive reform .
today ’ s crisis marks the end of economic growth fueled only by credit .
the excessive keynes ianism used to legitimize indebted eurozone countries ’ lack of budgetary constraints during the crisis also caused capital to be suc ked out of germany , when investors actually tried to retreat from southern europe .
with smartphones serving as the primary inter face in the modern city , closing the digital divide , and extending access to networks and devices , is a critical first step .
the relationships between clinical leaders and frontline providers , and between providers and the families they serve , must be respectful and supportive .
reducing and eliminating nuclear risks is an existential interest that all countries share .
the referendum char ade
but tech ceos have not tweeted about restoring that resource , because , at the moment , they see no viable business model for saving trees .
it should be remembered that , after the us , japan is the largest contributor to the united nations , and to its peacekeeping budget .
in the us , the usual bankruptcy rules allow regulators and courts to hold a bankrupt company ’ s operations together long enough to determine if the firm is worth more dead than alive .
simply put , a technocratic focus on upgrading skills and operational capability , in the absence of improved governance of the security services , can be easily subver ted by anti- reform coalitions , resulting in the continuation of regressive patterns of behavior .
yet the old systems no longer offer useful answers , as russia has demonstrated by brus h ing aside the united nations security council – the high al tar of the state- based international system – over ukraine and stalem ating it over syria .
human progress can be measured by the fact that we are living in a century where unilateral military operations based on power alone are intolerable . but the spread of the ideology of peace does not mean that threats to security have disappeared .
but what is meant by unacceptable varies greatly from country to country .
given this , china ’ s continued economic success depends on reducing state ownership of productive capital , facilitating market innovation and growth , and investing in human capital , such as through education , health care , and social welfare .
and there is no mechanism to pay for the education of refugee children or those affected by disaster .
the failure of european governments to manage the sudden influx of refugees in 2015 has fueled populism and intolerance in previously open societies .
the case for surge funding
the goal is to enable qualified syrian professionals to treat refugee patients , thus mitigating the language and logistical barriers to effective , accessible , and dignified care .
this is a message that the world needs now more than ever .
the asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with the new generation of refugees , who are in eligible under the existing framework , because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states .
though 90 % of refugees located in urban environments live in places with 2 g or 3 g coverage , about a fifth of those living in rural areas have no connectivity at all .
it is this fear of a fast-growing number of nuclear-armed states , not the fine balancing of the us and russian nuclear arsenals , that the case for global zero must address .
but this approach can also be considered a way to isolate china and erect discrim inating barriers against it in lucrative markets .
the fall of the berlin wall in november 1989 resulted in a period of indisput able hegemony for the us , and paved the way for the spread of governing structures promoted by the west .
but the eurozone ’ s peripheral countries simply did not have a choice : they had to reduce their deficits , because the foreign capital on which their economies were so dependent was no longer available .
cyn ics might call this the old bread -and- circ uses routine .
in particular , improving the scope and targeting of social safety nets would go a long way toward protecting the poorest in the event of a further global downturn .
citizens must be reminded that us forward deployment in okinawa – with financial support from japan – enables both countries to project power across the region .
to the discredit of the democratic world , hardly any head of state re mon str ated on zhao ’ s behalf , minim ally demanding that some accounting be made for his illegal and immoral incarceration .
the un ’ s gaza peace resolution ( which britain author ed ) calls on the israeli government to open up the supply lines , but this has been heeded only in small part .
schmidt was the country ’ s defense minister from 1969 to 1972 , finance minister from 1972 to 1974 , and federal chancellor from 1974 to 1982 .
the forward air- control pil ots , were re- interviewed , and aff id av its were taken .
after the war , there were two responses .
world leaders should still gather to commemorate wwi , in the hope that they might learn enough to avoid repeating its disaster in our time .
in 1961 , the m um my of stalin was observed str iding out of the ma us ol eu m in red square .
if ad has been working in more than 40 countries to ensure that rural families can have easy access to remittances , and are better able to use them as savings or investments that go back into their communities .
mexico city – as us president donald trump promised , renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) has comm enced .
first , we need to store renewable energy for use in vehicles in a low-cost and efficient way .
the bl ess ings of the internet are many , but one casualty of our seg m entation into online sub cultures is the loss of a common fo cal point .
our spending plan prioritiz es the development and fi el ding of the newest , most capable technology , including virgin i a- class submarines , fif th- generation f- 22 and f- 35 fighters , p- 8 maritime patrol aircraft , new electronic warfare and communications capabilities , and improved precision weapons and cru ise missiles .
this is no time for china to fl in ch .
nonetheless , there is a distinct sense that the renminbi will become a key player in global financial markets .
because financial markets notoriously over shoot , if the short- sellers win by pushing exchange rates and the real economy into a low- level equilibrium , the losses take the form of investment , jobs , and income .
re- ori enting america
more recently , new technologies developed in the us greatly increase the ability to extract oil and natural gas from underground form ations .
france ’ s new president , emmanuel macron , based his election campaign on a syn thesis of “ right-wing ” labor reforms and a “ left-wing ” easing of fiscal and monetary conditions – and his ideas are gaining support in germany and among european union policymakers .
once such a process begins , the politically fragile eu will be unable to stop it , at least in the foreseeable future .
if clinton wins , she will draw strong support from congressional democrats – including her rival for the democratic nomination , bernie sanders , and his fellow senator , elizabeth warren – when she pushes in this direction .
( according to one measure , the 2011 debt- ceiling crisis and the 2013 government shutdown caused uncertainty comparable to that sparked by the september 2001 terrorist attacks and the 2008 collapse of lehman brothers . )
and pay no attention to the latest tally of international competitiveness by the world economic forum , which finds the us back in second place ( out of 13 7 countries ) . and , of course , don ’ t draw comfort from the lofty stock-market valuations of the broad const ellation of us companies .
in the short run , higher investment is another form of spending : yet again , imports rise , and the trade deficit wid ens .
summers and fur man originally suggested that we should leave estim ations of the tax plan ’ s growth effects to the career government revenue scor ers . “ instead of being used to justify this tax bill , ” they later wrote , “ bar ro ’ s insights could have helped to shape a much better tax bill . ”
the current proposed legislation does the opposite .
and today , the united states – and much of the world – confronts four central problems : widening income inequality , growing job insecurity , climate change , and anemic productivity growth .
but corporate tax cuts are another matter , because making them temporary would defeat the purpose .
locked in a self- imposed conceptual paralysis that does not allow for a non- military solution , israel refuses to see that hamas ’ s rocket attacks on israeli territory are not intended to draw israel into an invasion .
there is no european counterpart to trump ’ s promise to “ make america great again . ”
this constr ains the number of nuclear weapon states , thus fulfilling one of the npt 's most important goals .
there is no question that donors must continue to provide a safety net for fragile countries .
moreover , the rbi ’ s commitment to price stability has translated into low interest rates , keeping the government ’ s debt- financing costs in check .
as yale historian paul kennedy has long maintained , the rise and fall of great powers invariably occurs under conditions of “ geostrategic overreach ” – when a state ’ s global power projection is undermined by weakness in its domestic economic fundamentals .
yes , we should turn waste into energy and be smart about agricultural lef to vers .
the last thing any responsible official would want to do was to provide him a guide to current policy thinking or elaborate on policy considerations .
it is also important to recall that we pursued the 2000 legislation not because we wanted to dereg ulate for its own sake , but rather to remove what the career lawyers at the us treasury , the fed , and the securities and exchange commission saw as systemic risk arising from legal uncertainty surrounding derivatives contracts .
furthermore , with record-high unemployment rates , europe needs jobs in dynamic , competitive industries that can not easily be outsourced .
perhaps technology “ experts ” could code algorithms that burst such bubbles .
meanwhile , inequality has increased worldwide – even in countries that have experienced rapid economic expansion , notably china and india .
from the point of view of security policy , inter cultural communication is intended to immun ize those sections of the muslim community that are deemed to be potentially rec eptive to extremist propaganda , with the clear aim being to prevent their radicalization and recruitment to jihad .
an obvious step would be to ensure that all food- related programs , policies , and interventions account for nutrition and sustainability .
moreover , we do not produce and consume the same things that our near- subsistence ancestors did .
the basic idea of sovereignty , which still provides a useful constraint on violence between states , needs to be preserved .
a better arms control system would undoubtedly make it more difficult for non-nuclear weapons states to acquire nuclear capability ; but it is hard to see why reductions alone , however dramatic , in the huge number of american and russian warheads should induce aspiring nuclear powers to give up their nuclear ambitions . even if america and russia agreed to reduce their stockpiles of nuclear warheads from 5 ,000- 6,000 each to 1,000 each , why should that stop iran from wanting to build 50- 100 nuclear warheads and short- range delivery systems if it perce ives this to be in its national interest ?
can the gen ie of disintegration be put back in its bottle ?
sports , too , is losing its middle .
these provisions – as i argued when introducing amendments to them in the lower house of parliament ( of which i am a member ) – can easily be mis used by the authorities in ways that in fringe upon indians ’ constitutional rights .
this leaves only accommodation – which means effectively granting legitimacy to the kremlin 's claim to authority over ukraine and , presumably , the rest of its “ near abroad . ''
ever since the harm el report , which re defined nato strategy back in 1967 , the west has followed a two- track approach to its relations with russia : deterrence and détente .
middle-income families also insist on buying homes , despite the highest multiple of home price to income among advanced economies and a hous ing- finance system that imposes high borrowing costs .
in 2003 , denmark ’ s universities were turned into self- governing institutions run by governing boards dominated by external representatives .
hamas and hezbollah prosper ed in this way because the governing authorities were either unable or unwilling to address grassroots poverty .
as soon as possible , i will dispat ch an osi f e need s- assessment team to greece to contact the authorities – and the people and organizations already helping the ne edy – to work out a plan for which we can generate public support .
but , with the role of political islam still un answered , none of the country ’ s fundamental problems has been addressed seriously , and its leaders have been unable to take advantage of promising opportunities ( for example , in contrast to egypt , algeria has large oil and gas reserves ) .
realizing that hope is no easy task .
economic weakness thus provides an unprecedented opportunity for international engagement with the new arab leadership , which should incorporate short- , medium- , and long-term goals .
would the us not be better off by using its capacity to tax natural gas to stimulate the development of the contemporary technological equivalent of the revolutionary engine ?
foreign-exchange controls , typically accompanied by price controls , give the government the sense that it can have its cake ( lax policies ) and eat low inflation .
later , it offered to handle international distribution of the final product .
after all , apple , google , and facebook are jointly worth more than $ 1 trillion , even though the capital originally invested in them is a min us cule fraction of that .
the idea is similar to the au to- complete function in , say , the google search box – constantly gu essing what you will enter next based on what you have already typ ed in .
rich cities are characterized by a more diverse set of skills that support a more diverse and complex set of industries – and thus provide more job opportunities to the different specialists .
this windfall allowed higher government spending and less austerity .
daw kins ’ third and most fundamental fallacy is the delusion that law is about truth – “ what really happened , ” as he puts it .
a briti sh - made car can now be sold anywhere in the eu without having to comply with 28 member states ’ safety and emissions standards .
there is no room for illusions .
the question is this : will twenty-first-century asia resemble europe – the dominant region of much of modern history – during the first half of the twentieth century , when it experienced two wars of unprecedented cost and destruction , or the second half , when tensions with the soviet union were effectively managed and western europe experienced unprecedented peace and prosperity ?
russia , a country of only 14 3 million people that lacks a modern economy , should be offered the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of international integration , but only if it acts with restraint .
consider the bank of canada .
with the introduction of the euro , and with falling inflation , nominal convergence and real convergence have grown similar , both making gradual progress since the mid-1990 ’ s .
this month , the leaders of east african community member countries are set to endorse a move to establish a monetary union , covering 150 million people , as early as 2015 .
these protections have no place in a constitution , particularly one that can not be easily am ended .
i hope that governments will do more than that .
we must not abandon the core tenets of european civilization , including the obligation to shelter refugees from evil .
these countries should shel ve any delu sions of finding “ black gold , ” enjoy the short-run benefits of cheap oil , and take action now to align infrastructure investments to changing technology .
for a p ia to work , it must weigh privacy against other imperatives , such as efficient aid provision .
but what does that have to do with either the environment or “ sustainability ? ”
one reason for ra jap ak sa ’ s potential victory is his deep pockets ; another is that he can probably count on support from china , having allowed the construction of ports and other facilities for the people ’ s liberation army during his presidency .
that trend poses challenges and opportunities for policymakers , workers , and employers .
another reason is that ordinary citizens suffer when debts are not canc elled , when financial assistance is not forthcoming , or when trade barriers are raised .
in the us , as well as in spain and ireland , banks and households became what the financial times columnist martin wolf called “ highly leveraged speculators in a fixed asset . ”
official suppression of news about the incident ( which occurred just before the beijing olympics ) not only led to the deaths of many infants , but also left ordinary chinese even more distr ust ful of the authorities .
but the need to strike a sensible balance remains .
europe ’ s problem is not a lack of financial resources , but rather a lack of suitable projects and limited capacity within member states .
here , our understanding of both likeli hoods and the possibilities themselves is problematic .
under the ecb ’ s qe program , which started in march 2015 ( and will likely be extended beyond its scheduled end in march 2017 ) , eurozone members ’ central banks buy private market securities for € 1. 74 trillion ( $ 1. 84 trillion ) , with more than € 1.4 trillion to be used to purchase their own countries ’ government debt .
i agree with gordon that i would rather give up my mobile phone and even the internet than go without indoor pl umb ing and electricity .
the most fundamental reform of housing markets remains something that reduces homeowners ’ over leverage and lack of diversification .
on july 8 , the new york times led its front page with a somewhat hyperbol ic headline : “ from stocks to farmland , all ’ s booming , or bub bling : prices for nearly all assets around world are high , bringing economic risks . ”
the advance of behavioral economics is not fundamentally in conflict with mathematical economics , as some seem to think , though it may well be in conflict with some currently fashionable mathematical economic models .
moreover , the amount of saving that people desire exceeds the available investment opportunities .
but interest rates can not fall below zero ( in fact , they may be stuck above zero if there is a strong desire to build up cash balances ) .
even in its hey day , the soviet union was a one- track superpower .
more important , when there are idle resources ( for example , when unemployment is much higher than normal ) , the spending that results from the government ’ s borrowing brings these resources into use .
reformers want to cap bankers ’ bonuses , create fire walls between banking departments , or ( more radically ) limit a single bank ’ s share of total banking assets .
the risk now is that a debt- fueled asset spike merely perpetu ates the boom - bust cycle .
just consider : machinery “ may render the population redundant ” !
in nationalism ’ s forward march in post- crash europe , its stand ard- bear ers often use immigration to exploit pre- crash resentment against globalization , notably the erosion of cultures and identities , declining sense of community , wage stagnation , rising inequality , uncontrolled banks , and high unemployment .
that is mainly because nothing is being done to boost aggregate demand .
the correct response , said kennan , should be “ containment ” of soviet aggression through the “ ad ro it and vigilant application of counter force . ”
finally , we must consider the human dimension of our virtual world .
united nations data show that india ’ s stock of foreign direct investment ( fdi ) was equivalent to just 1 1.8 % of its gdp from 2010 to 2012 – far lower than the developing- economy average of roughly 30 % .
obama revived relations with cuba after more than a half-century of deep hostility .
lee bu ch he it , the veteran sovereign-debt attorney who should have been in the negotiating room , and mit u gul ati of duke university have proposed an elegant “ re profiling ” of cyprus ’ s € 15 billion sovereign debt that would instantly reduce the financing pressure on the country .
general i q tests measure dimensions of intelligence such as verbal and sp ati al de x ter ity , but i q scores generally predict only about 10- 20 % of success in life .
after all , china has been under constant pressure from foreign governments to re value , in the mistaken belief that a stronger currency would reduce china ’ s large trade surplus .
for their part , christians and jews could do business under their own rules , though they were free also to follow islamic rules and to use islamic courts , if they so desired .
fif ty- seven percent of voters chose to elect the reformist president hassan rouhani to a second term .
the same month , however , one of china ’ s largest oil companies concluded a drilling contract with norway ’ s stat oil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop business .
since his return to the premiership in 2010 , orbán has committed hungary to an authoritarian nationalist path , and he has exploited the refugee crisis to cement a “ siege mentality ” that helps him sustain popular support .
restricting criminal liability to actual perpetrators , carefully excluding cl ans men and kin , is a fragile historical innovation aimed at interrup ting spir als of bloody inter- communal violence .
let ’ s start with “ patient zero ” in this political plague : ru per t murdoch .
rush die a la rus se
each project was tend ered through a competitive selection process , and the final costs were comparable to stad ium construction projects elsewhere in europe .
iran also must be factor ed into this equation , as it is becoming a strategic investor by building an oil refin ery just across its border in armenia , partly as a security measure in case of a us attack and partly to relieve its petro l shortages .
but while the economy is enjoying a modest rebound after two years of deep recession , the future no longer seems as promising as its leadership thought just five years ago .
china ’ s willingness to cooperate with russia also has its limits .
but russia faces serious challenges .
and , yes , european leaders must agree to take a fair share of those in need , by allowing refugees to apply for asylum in the eu directly from the countries in which they are currently re siding .
and since el vir a n ab i ul lin a took over as head of the central bank of russia in 2013 , more large private banks have been nation alized as part of a larger effort to clean up the banking system .
new york – the united states has lost two asymmetric wars in modern times : one against the vie t con g in vietnam , and another against terrorist groups in the middle east .
russia ’ s stock exchange is collapsing .
the west ’ s greatest strength is democracy ; it is what has enabled us to secure peace for two generations and bring an end to communist rule in europe almost without a shot being fired .
though economic growth is expected to reach only about 1 % in 2017 , the fear of economic destabilization that has per me ated the country since its 2014 invasion of crimea – which was met with crippling sanctions from the west – has all but evapor ated .
their desire to “ catch up ” prompted the so-called color revolutions of 2003 and 2004 , reflecting their belief that economic growth , democratization , and a pro-western orientation went hand in hand .
and , less sur rep ti tiously , the kremlin has spent hundreds of millions of dollars funding propaganda out fits – such as the sputnik “ news ” agency – even as the russian economy implo des .
the qu int essentially balkan dispute between greece and macedonia dates back at least to 1991 , when macedonia , then one of yugoslavia ’ s poorest republics , declared its independence , and adopted the name republic of macedonia .
such an approach would generate significant goodwill in the negotiations .
one question concerns political stability .
he is right : key actors , including egypt , iran , saudi arabia , and turkey , are being forced to recognize that russia must have a say in determining the region ’ s fate .
for companies that prefer younger employees – say , because they operate in a cutting-edge or fast- changing industry – there may even be incentive to br ibe labor inspectors , in order to avoid penalties for discrim inating against older workers .
the b am ’ s older rival , the trans- siber ian railway , is certainly more popular .
despite obama ’ s assurances ( and those of his predecessors ) , russia asserts that america ’ s bm ds is actually intended to expand nato ’ s role in europe , complicate russian diplomacy , and facilitate us military interventions .
russians ’ laugh ter turned hom eric when putin ’ s spokes man , dmit ry pes kov , in expl icably announced that the ur ns had been placed there to give putin a sense of importance .
in soviet fashion , the moscow stock exchanges closed for four days in a row in the week of september 15 , because stocks plunged too fast .
if you dare to ask for a bigger plate or an extra helping , the wa it ress gives you that with ering soviet look - you want too much .
indeed , for the first time since 1998 , the annual inflation rate has been rising this year , rendering the official targets – 7.5 % - 8.5 % in 2005 , 6 % - 7.5 % in 2006 and 5 % - 6.5 % in 2007 – little more than lip service .
the optimistic view is that property rights are becoming more deeply anchored than they were in the past , and that russia ’ s future will depend on how fast a middle class with a stake in law -based government can be created .
considering the country ’ s vast size , a two- party system seems to be the most appropriate .
from the outset , the defense ministry was skeptical of putin 's order to include anti- terrorism on the military agenda .
it was his ambition to subject the country to truly far-reaching social and political reforms that sealed his downfall and also brought about this new trial , which appears intended to silence him for good .
instead , political life here has been reduced to mere form ality .
china , in comparison , now looks like a respectable partner .
contemporary russians consume competitive products : ne st le cer e als , merc edes cars , hollywood movies .
if western foreign policy has a guiding principle , it is the promotion of human rights .
its control of eastern europe was always enforced on the basis of “ friendship treaties , ” and the soviet inv asions of hungary in 1956 and czechoslovakia in 1968 were “ frater nal ” missions .
kad y rov was able to create a strong force that could fight the guerrillas , basically on its own .
the thinking minority needs a system of laws and institutions , real presidential elections , a working parliament , and justice that is independent , rather than merely following orders from above .
the real threat is to the putin model of a corporate , authoritarian state , un friendly to the west .
that decision , obama emphasized , enabled an agreement to remove , with russian cooperation , most of syria ’ s chemical-weapons stockpile .
our future is for ukraine ’ s citizens to decide , period .
luk in is an ex ponent of the “ realist ” doctrine of international relations , which holds that sovereign states will always try to regulate their relations according to the principle of the balance of power .
but other elements of the northern powerhouse plan are just as important , especially the devol ution of significant decision-making powers – and some spending and revenue powers – to the city level , in exchange for electing mayors ( something the uk can learn from the us ) .
this small , land locked african country ( the size of massachusetts , but with twice the population ) has developed a primary health-care system with near- universal access to clinical care and insurance .
through his visit to jerusalem , sadat made more ordinary the nature of the arab-israeli conflict .
and y usu f al- q ar ad awi is a qat ar- based the olog ian and al jazeera pre ach er who is affiliated with the muslim brotherhood ’ s most radical wing .
asians need not be pessimistic ; the perfect storm of a hard landing in china , a double-dip recession in the united states , and a collapse of the eurozone is unlikely .
re making iran
in the old days , such charges might have attracted a fat wa or two and , at worst , social ostr ac ism .
the rights of the individual were sub merged by the horrors of the first half of the twentieth century .
success lies in the ability of firms to combine these factors either in a single country or across several markets .
although the service sector was able to generate growth in the past , it has proved to be a poor job cre ator and only employs 27 % of workers , far lower than its share of the economy .
within a few weeks , the islamic state has virtually eliminated the entire shia muslim and christian populations from the lands that it controls .
annual investment in equipment increased by 7.7 % in 2006 , while overall investment , including construction , was up by 5 % .
france is back in the world and in europe .
a major policy mistake and the same public officials now criticizing sarkozy for attacking the ecb will be joining him .
a stop - gap measure that permits firms to hire workers for temporary as sign ments , on condition that they not be renewed , condem ns the least skilled to a dem or alizing cycle of short-term jobs and repeated sp ells of unemployment .
today , by contrast , it all looks as if intervention may re- legitimate sarkozy in the eyes of french citizens , whose votes he will need in next year ’ s presidential election .
sarkozy has a golden opportunity to put his mark on the global financial system . surely a french president , eager for global success with a domestic election looming , will not pass up his chance ?
it will be a few years yet before we can determine whether these ambitions have borne fruit .
madrid ‒  tensions between iran and saudi arabia spi ked earlier this month , with protesters stor ming the saudi embassy in tehran after the execution of a shia cleric in the kingdom .
it does not help that many of those pres s- freedom viol ators – including saudi arabia – are among america ’ s closest allies .
more generally , gender segregation undermines the es pr it de corps that is so important to military service .
since the us does not allow exports of crude oil , the shale revolution pushed down the us benchmark price , the west texas intermediate , relative to international crude prices , sometimes with differentials as wide as $ 20 .
the regime is aging and ailing , and is perceived by the population as being on life support .
requiring invigor ated administrative and operational resources , it comes at a time when the kingdom is not only dealing with lower oil earnings and drawing down its large reserves , but also is increasingly asserting its regional role , including in syria and yemen .
princeton – saudi arabia is widely perceived as leading the counter- revolution against the arab spring uprisings .
after that , developed-country stock exchanges increasingly func tioned as profit- oriented utility companies , rather than as sources of national pride , like airlines or sport teams .
on november 3 , after rebel forces killed nine people in a dru ze village inside syria , the israeli military warned that it would intervene to prevent the occupation of the village .
fiscal and current-account surpluses were transformed into deficits .
bush and others imply that africa wast es the aid through corruption .
for progressive feder alists in us cities and states – the laboratories of democracy – it is now more necessary than ever to step up and start innov ating .
crop diversification , recycling , and soil cover can all contribute to living , fertile , and active soil capable of optimal water management .
the fear is no longer that they will be unable to insulate themselves . it is that their economies could be dragged into much deeper crises than those that will be experienced at the epicenter of the sub-prime debacle .
such an approach would not just address the n p l problem ; by giving the private sector a stake in the soes , it would also help to spur performan ce- enhancing reforms .
indeed , the abst ention rate for a presidential election had never been higher before the contest between hollande and nicolas sarkozy .
unless the eu aband ons the inclusion principle , that rhetoric will grow louder – and more exits will become inevitable .
finally , we have failed to modernize the international system ’ s institutional architecture .
it is by no means certain that us intervention would do anything to reduce the risk of a wider war .
but that is not what most people do , either because of their short sigh tedness or because of the incentives created by the government social security programs .
but so does the sgp 's current implementation - for example , in the conventions that define how budget deficit are measured and what qual ifies as government revenue .
furthermore , its financial structure enables it to be more autonomous , self- sustaining , and resilient than most other multilateral institutions .
that clause , contained in article 7 of the agreement , author izes countries , “ after consultation with the [ international monetary ] fund , temporarily to impose limitations on freedom of exchange operations in the scarce currency ” ; and it grants those countries “ complete jurisdiction in determining the nature of such limitations . ”
as an “ im mature deb tor- borrower , ” its trade balance and current account are also in deficit ; as a “ mature deb tor- borrower , ” its trade balance enters surplus ; and , as a “ deb tor- re pay er , ” its current account moves to surplus .
after all , even if security threats remain concentrated in the same broad area , the most urgent challenges can shift considerably over time .
recent reports suggest that there are more than three million un filled job open ings , and about 49 % of employers say that they have difficulty filling positions , especially in information technology , engineering , and skilled trades .
rather , they are usually guided by the circumstances of their journey .
all scientific knowledge is therefore preliminary , and will be extended , complem ented , or replaced by new knowledge .
these models will enable us to make clear , test able predictions about expected monetary- exchange behavior in an economic context , including in addressing comm on- good problems .
recent social media attacks on a meas l es- ru bel la vaccination campaign even sur faced in india , fueling a mix of conspiracy theories , safety concerns , and questions of motivation – and demonstrating the extent to which lives can be imper iled when facts are ignored .
it spurred the 1992 conference on environment and development in rio de janeiro , and it continues to influence global discussions .
given that many key indicators are not yet collected in real time , but only through labor ious retrospec tive household surveys , the indicators for the key poverty- reduction goal are as much as five years out of date for many countries .
the us is thus the economy that is best equipped to pull the world out of secular deflation .
“ [ t ] here is beyond question a body of very important but un organized knowledge which can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of knowledge of general rules : the knowledge of particular circumstances and place .
stanford – one day in 1961 , an american economist named daniel ell s berg stum bled across a piece of paper with apocalyptic implications .
the result is substantial : a ¥ 30 trillion annual adjustment for distributed income and ¥ 19 . 8 trillion adjustment for r & d and intellectual property . add the g ni adjustment of over ¥ 8.5 trillion , and japan ’ s economy is nearly ¥ 70 trillion , or 14 % , larger than official data suggest .
chinese investors spent far more than that – $ 94 billion – on real estate in the us in 2013 to 2016 .
understanding today ’ s stagnation
but when i pointed out that the theory does not unequivocally support fiscal expansion as the appropriate response to a recession , he became dis interested in my work .
so why not stick to a winning formula where energy is concerned ?
led ’ s are beginning to lead the way .
but twin peaks itself was further sub divided .
it is not surprising that questions about genetic tests should receive special attention in germany , given the national imperative of avoiding any repe tition of the crimes of the nazi era .
there is also the question of when one votes ?
with time , they could leverage retained earnings , increasing their lending potential without additional pa id- in capital .
gone , for the most part , are the color ful ro gu es and public- spir ited ide alists who used to li ven up parliamentary politics .
in the face of china ’ s rise and maritime ambitions , east asia ’ s two great democracies must seek to do no less .
and then there is wo ody all en , accused of but never charged with mol esting his seven - year-old adopted daughter .
he believes the critical reform is to prevent bank bailouts by public authorities .
nonetheless , macron has shown himself to be brave , articulate , and determined to do the right thing .
the genome study revealed the molecular basis of this trait – novel proteins produced in the milk g land .
all sides agree that , unless there is a diplomatic solution , iran ’ s possession of nuclear weapons must be prevented in good time and by any means necessary .
now information technology is coming to the rescue .
but looking after the stability of the global financial system , including the assessment of exchange-rate policies and global payment imbalances , is a different responsibility .
seven years in afghanistan
since the 1990 ’ s , his channels broadcast “ big brother ” and italian variety shows dominated by male comedi ans , mus cl emen , and sc anti ly cl ad young girls , popul arly known as “ vel ine . ”
in other words , one in a thousand voted for them , although they claimed to speak for that state ’ s retired and elderly people – over 30 % of the population .
pakistan plays host to more refugees than any other country , with 1.5 million registered in the country , in addition to an estimated 3.5 million internally displaced people .
anger has come to focus on banking executives ’ huge compensation packages , composed largely of bonuses .
in 2005 , only 15 countries imported l ng ; today , that number has tripled .
southern germans would wonder whether they were not transferring too much to the north ’ s old industrial ru st belt ; northern italians who support the anti-eu leg a nord in the self- sty led unit of “ pad ania ” would want to escape from the rule of rome and the south .
though these measures are certainly positive steps , no country acting alone can ensure adequate protection of shark populations .
acting prime minister ehud olmert , a veteran political ma ver ick and former mayor of jerusalem , inspired several of sharon ’ s initiatives .
but , as with railway fa res , the final decision was left up to modi .
and only democracy could defuse conflict by giving dissent a legitimate means of expression .
that will be indian democracy ’ s salvation .
losing one ’ s life in a foreign war fought at the beh est of colonial rulers was an occupational hazard ; it did not qualify as a form of pra is e worthy national service .
but it will be a mon ument less to the modest gand h ian it ostensibly hon ors than to its buil der ’ s over we ening ambitions .
unless modi can deliver inclusive growth , his triumph will prove short-lived and the nehru vi ans will return .
more to the point , kho br ag ade did not find her ma id in the us labor market and “ exploit ” her ; she brought her from india to help her in her represent ational duties , on an official passport , with a us visa given for that purpose .
when his quest for power and participation in policymaking ended in 2007 , he reached the pin n acle of his public career , serving as president until 2014 .
given the magnitude of the contraction in credit supply following the financial crisis of the late 1990 ’ s , it is no surprise that government spending failed to restore growth .
should we not meet at the negotiating table , exchange s miles and hand sha kes , and get down to talking ?
in america ’ s view , the re interpretation of article 9 of japan ’ s “ peace constitution ” that abe undertook – thereby allowing japan ’ s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack and to assist the us and other allies in meeting their commitments to securing asia ’ s peace – was long overdue .
we will also foster medical care as an industry .
that danger remains with us .
trump ’ s victory has s ounded a death kn ell for the 12- country trans-pacific partnership , which obama had made the centerpiece of his asia strategy .
and the future will become even brighter with the appearance of what we are calling the “ wage surprise . ”
we have already resolved to ensure that at least 30 % of all personnel hired by the national government are women .
western statesmen are right to congrat ulate themselves on averting an immediate major crisis .
netanyahu ’ s claim that this extended jerusalem is the bi bl ical capital of the jewish people is a historical tr av est y .
the spread of violence to the west bank – and palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’ s support of hamas ’ s objectives – means that israel can not avoid the conflict ’ s political consequences .
madrid – the german philosopher j ür gen hab er mas once defined our times as “ the age of post- national identity . ”
conspicuously , south korean president park geun-hye ’ s “ trust politik ” – a soft-power approach to north korea that calls for deeper cooperation with china , the north ’ s most important ally – is particularly popular .
now he is faced with a strategic nightmare come true : iran ’ s possible integration into the international community without having to dismantle its nuclear-weapons potential .
madrid – russia ’ s recent diplomatic successes in syria and iran , together with foreign-policy missteps by us president barack obama , have emboldened president vladimir putin in his drive to position russia as capable of challenging american exceptionalism and western univers alism .
this is critical , because the future palestinian state could not offer israel much security .
it remains a secret that brings them even closer .
taken together , it is not hard to see why some commentators argue that there has been little attempt by the pharmaceutical industry to properly assess the risks and benefits of their products in under 18 ’ s .
for many , this proposal has underscored a change in investors ’ behavior .
but soros is wrong .
the diplomatic package could be made more attractive if the us would add more positive incentives .
the changes are badly needed .
diplomats make careers of finding procedural solutions to in solu ble dilemmas ; surely , they hope , there is a conference table with a shape that matches a given strategic configuration .
of the 1.3 billion chinese , more than one in ten will die from smoking .
when faced with such major social problems , a preference for ignorance over knowledge is difficult to defend .
europe ’ s traditional spheres of influence seemed to vanish as the eu saw its magne tism strengthened on a continental and global scale .
people have had a taste of politics conducted by fi restor m .
presenting a drop this way is misleading , and might encourage some panic selling .
it takes about two days to set up a new business ; taxes are low ; and ample co- working spaces are available .
in berlin , a new startup is said to be founded every 20 minutes .
whether or not this was appropriate , cricket australia was making it clear that such behavior mer ited only a symbolic punishment .
de g reg or io ’ s views differ from those of many of his colleagues in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become bigger and apply what he calls “ clever ” strategies that require a great deal of leverage .
bailouts become more expensive and – as in the case of iceland – may actually be unaffordable .
bank regulators are starting to take these issues more seriously – an encouraging change from the 1990s and early 2000s , when the fed was among the cheer leaders for unfettered financial innovation , without adequate consideration for systemic risk .
washington , dc – two hundred years ago , washington dc was captured by the british – who then proceeded to set fire to official buildings , including the white house , treasury department , and congress .
interestingly , when returns are measured properly , the outside “ limited ” partners in private equity – including pension funds , insurance companies , and university endowments – also do not necessarily do so well .
of course , in countries receiving assistance – such as greece in the last few years – the imf exc ites great passion .
overall , there is little hard evidence to support a malign view of china ’ s investments in africa .
though turkey currently has no plans to develop a fuel cycle of its own , its ambitious agenda for developing nuclear power has made policymakers intent on safeguarding the rights recognized by the npt , including the right to enrich uranium .
der a members are overwhelmingly si kh s .
so the outlook for china , america ’ s third-largest and most rapidly growing major export market , is crucial for a fed that has failed to gain much traction from its unconventional post-crisis monetary policies .
the new israel was more than three times larger than the old one .
the islamic resistance movement ( known by its arabic ac ron y m , hamas ) , which emerged during the first intifada in 1987 , grew more powerful in the 1990 ’ s , after the return of the plo ’ s y asser arafat and the creation , as a result of the oslo accords , of the palestinian authority .
the funding from the parent banks that in the earlier phase of the crisis helped provide liquidity to the east european banking systems now appears more as a liability and possible source of contagion .
sar aj evo - almost exactly 13 years ago , american leadership brought an end to bosnia 's three- and- a- half- year war through the day ton peace agreement .
this appears to be one of those times .
in just over a decade , small po x became the first – and , so far , the only – infectious human disease ever to be fully eradicated .
the current account of the balance of payments swung from deficit in 1949 to surplus in 1950 , and gdp rose strongly .
but so will targets for prosperity , allowing hundreds of millions to lift themselves out of poverty .
rising energy bills , driven by the cost of fossil fuels , are a massive political issue in many countries in europe and elsewhere , including the united states , where consumer energy prices have become a major issue in the run-up to this year ’ s presidential election .
if a proverbial mar tian were watching the flow of electr ons between east asia and north america , he would probably notice robust two- way traffic .
it would combine some general rules with income- adjusted financial contributions by the state , employers , and individuals .
some 2.4 million families took advantage of it in the first two years .
tweets democratic
preparing opinion for a move is more complicated in the united kingdom .
something similar – and potentially irreversible – is happening to human attention in our digital age .
european respondents are more pessimistic about mobility : unlike americans , they overestimate the odds of remaining in poverty .
perhaps that is why sin at ra left his home town of ho bo ken , new jer sey .
of course , our expectations will always be in tension with reality .
by contrast , former secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton and a leading republican contender , donald trump , have opposed reform of social security and medicare .
even though economic conditions were dire in the ussr ’ s final months , people could see the freedoms that were coming and , unlike today , were willing to stand up for them .
another would be to work from treaties involving fewer actors to build broader agreements .
if america is to win that war , its leaders are going to have to do better at combining soft and hard power into `` smart power . ''
the amount of sunlight that sh ines on a country is impossible to change .
consider the influence of feminist movements throughout the west .
together these features help explain why annual productivity growth dropped 80 % , on average , between 2010 and 2014 , to 0.5 % , from 2.4 % a decade earlier .
the heavily indebted poor countries initiative ( hip c ) , created in response to the great debt relief campaigns of the 1990s , has written off around $ 77 billion in debt for 36 countries .
making matters worse , the country has suffered this year from both floods and drought .
on the contrary , it is a demonstration of tran qu il and con scienti ous strength – and a precondition of good and realistic governance .
but public-sector shortfalls , which have become more visible and better understood recently , are not the only reason for this .
for example , in 2010 , south africa ’ s richest 10 % accounted for 53 % of total consumer spending .
historically , po aching has also been immune to fluctuations in the retail price of rhin o hor ns .
when knowhow is sh un ned , production collapses , as it did in venezuela and zimbabwe .
for the most part , however , asia ’ s political leaders retain a very positive view of the benefits of open trade .
sadly , in many other parts of the world , particularly south asia , parents need no reminding that immunization saves lives .
as one us official put it , china seems to be trying to “ create facts on the ground ” – what admir al harry har ris , the us commander in the pacific , calls a new “ great wall of sand . ”
the fallout from bhutto ’ s assassination was bound to reach beyond pakistan ’ s borders .
starting south korea ’ s new growth engines
moon has agreed to build transport and energy links between north and south korea , as well as provide financial assistance for the north ’ s economic development .
for the chinese , in particular , the talks have been an opportunity to get to know some of their neighbors better – and they have certainly helped sino- us relations .
beyond aggressively calling for the withdrawal of the us military ’ s terminal high al titude area defense ( thaad ) system from south korea , which it views as a threat to its own security and the region ’ s strategic balance , china is using its economic might to retaliate against the south .
but , regardless of who arrives at the blue house in may , their job – and the job of their party – will be to tackle the challenges that park was so ill equipped to address .
china is incapable of solving this problem on its own , because its economy is still only one-third the size of america ’ s .
for years , over reliance on traditional fuels discouraged investment in clean technologies for power generation , despite the fact that both countries are innovators in green industries , like energy storage and smart grids .
to be sure , it may not be possible to establish a full international bankruptcy code ; but a consensus could be reached on many issues .
like so many other features of the global economy , debt accumulation and default tends to occur in cycles .
at that time , russia was in no position to compete .
but all signs indicate that the month will end in doubt and pessimism .
and yet a union that relies on the nation-state , not just for implementation , but also for legitimacy , can function only as well as its individual members .
during the communist era , roma received jobs and housing .
with regard to market fundamentals , there have been no changes in demand and supply conditions that explain the scale of the un anticipated jump in oil prices .
to escape the crisis , eu leaders must recognize the shortcomings of the eurozone ’ s one- dimensional framework , and develop a system better suited to managing a multi- faceted monetary union .
some commerci al- banking activities are closer to securities trading .
governments are great at funding and carrying out research , but competitive private companies motivated by profit and glory tend to be more efficient and spe edi er in applying the results .
according to one story , possibly ap ocr y ph al , in the 1970 ’ s , the islamic insurgency in iran was initially planned using material delivered through por n- related channels because the mosques were so tightly controlled .
that would be hugely unpopular .
but , for the emerging and developing economies that dominated global growth over the last five years , it raises an important question : now , with high-income countries joining them , is business as usual good enough to compete ?
these countries urgently need structural reforms that can generate more inclusive economic growth and political institutions that channel , rather than suppress , legitimate popular demands .
assume that one ton of steel and ten barrels of oil are needed to produce one car .
mgi surveys in france , the united kingdom , and the us have found that people whose incomes are not growing , and who do not anticipate an improvement , tend to view trade and immigration much more negatively than those who are experiencing or foresee gains .
there are seven high- rises in moscow that russians still call “ stalin ’ s v y so t ki . ”
bitcoin , e ther eu m , and other cryptocurrencies have become associated in recent years with price volatility , rampant speculation , and – to be frank – a great deal of theft .
beyond the matter of control , the acquisition of technology companies also requires soes and swfs to take a different approach to risk management , owing to the unstable nature of valuations in this sector .
whereas americans depend upon tax- deduc tible private donations and box office receipts to finance live classical music , europeans prefer direct government support for the arts .
unsustainable private- debt problems must be resolved by defaults , debt reductions , and conversion of debt into equity .
after north korea threatened to restart its nuclear facility at y ong by on , the bush administration in early october removed the country from its terrorism black list .
embry onic stem cells are plur i potent , meaning that they have the ability to develop into any type of human tissue .
the same should go for pat enting it .
in the 1930s , fasci sts and nazis also denounced jews , as well as marx ists and fre em as ons , as “ cosmopolit ans ” or “ inter nationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspect .
( jared kushner can be left out of this discussion , because the only reason for his presence in the white house is his marriage to trump ’ s daughter , iv an ka . )
as china re balances toward a growth model that draws greater support from domestic demand , washington should stop ran ting about the renminbi and start focusing on the opportunities that this bon an za will create .
unlike the united states , which relied largely on its central bank ’ s efforts to cushion the crisis and foster recovery , china deployed a cn¥ 4 trillion fiscal stimulus ( about 12 % of its 2008 gdp ) to jump -start its s agging economy in the depths of the crisis .
i suspect that it is the latter .
until now , this transformation was framed in terms of broad goals and aspirations .
in an increasingly servic es -led , labor-intensive economy , china ’ s economic managers can afford to be more relaxed about a gdp slowdown .
the debt/ income ratio for american households is now down to 10 9 % – well below the peak of 1 35 % reached in late 2007 , but still 35 percentage points above the average over the final three decades of the twentieth century .
the downturn has nothing to do with problems in other emerging economies ; in fact , it is a welcome development .
both countries should press ahead with a bilateral investment treaty , which would enhance rules-based market access and eventually foster greater trade liberalization .
this takes an enormous toll .
like many other professions , the science community needs to do more to address the issue in a meaningful way .
given these colossal sums , it is essential that policymakers properly analyze where and how this money is spent , and consider ways to reduce the total .
in formulating the post-2015 development agenda , world leaders must recognize the tremendous impetus that less violent , more harmonious societies would provide for economic development .
the guaran i indigenous people of par agu ay have grown and used the her b for centuries .
the security council has written the right script ; we must now make sure that we follow it .
this decline reflects the wage cap on social security taxes ( currently at $ 10 2,000 ) .
with growth not constrained on the supply side , there would be little inflationary pressure , and the neutral interest rate that is consistent with non- inflationary full employment could simply be lower than it used to be for an extended period .
new orders for us manufactured durable goods beat expectations , clim bing 2.9 % month on month to december 2017 and 1.7 % in november .
in june , the index dropped more than 1 % on four days , and gained more than 1 % on two days .
once again , the sensible guess is that these two factors more or less cancel each other out .
if so , lukashen ka must be laugh ing al oud .
increased borrowing by the federal government also means crowding out the private sector .
a generation later , humanity is pl umb ing even greater depths of moral depr av ity .
the whole world can ’ t recover all of the enthusiasm of a few years ago from feedback alone , for there is a giant coordination problem : we are not all att entive to price increases at the same time , so we make decisions to buy at very different times .
to be sure , recent developments are encouraging .
the group also agreed to enhance the c m im ’ s flexibility by reducing the minimum portion of crisis lending to be tied to the international monetary fund ’ s lending program from 80 % to 70 % .
it is no surprise that environmentalists like paul haw ken believe that education – and educating girls in particular – is among the most effective steps the world can take to combat climate change .
the unfortunate by product of this self-reinforcing cycle of non- compliance and delegitim ation is damage to the global economy in general , and , in particular , to the developing countries that are most in need of foreign investment .
putin ’ s grip on state media has been tightening since december 2013 , when channels were re grou ped in the ros si ya se go d n ya consortium to improve the presentation of russia ’ s “ story . ”
everyone benefits .
if the objectives were met – fiscal stabilization and renewed growth – the discount would disappear .
with broad action on policy , investment , and technology , africa ’ s farmers can double their productivity within five years .
then they continued to suppress interest rates and the yield curve , elev ating asset prices , which boosted demand via wealth effects .
this is exactly what has happened in more than a few post-communist countries , where privatization has become a dirty word .
the question now is how quickly are species being destroyed – and what can be done to stop it .
indeed , after nearly two decades of trying , the best climate deal that countries have been able to agree on is one that imposes no real obligations , sets no binding emissions targets , and requires no specific actions by anyone .
qu é bec  will invest more than $ 3.3 billion toward this goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy .
ox f am attributes this to the fact that the government was better prepared to deliver food and water to millions .
mal ari a- free communities can divert their health budgets to fight other scour ges , such as non- communicable or neglected tropical diseases .
as we have been saying for some time , if governments stick to their medium-term fiscal- consolidation and reform plans , debt levels should stabilize or decrease , allevi ating debt- related challenges .
a good economy not only sustain s growing output and national income ; it also ensures its participants ’ capacity for self- sufficiency and ability to realize their potential .
these conflicts have taught africa that , in order to contain the centrifu gal pressures that encourage fragmentation within our relatively new states , a conscious effort must be made to nurture and entren ch national unity , which must include democratic practices .
these polls , though vitally important , are not the only challenges that sudan and its people face .
the importance of technical competence in monetary policy has been proved repeatedly by central banks around the world .
in august 1998 , russia had only just concluded a gigantic imf program that appeared to stabilize the country .
as they frequent hospitals , and nur sing homes , they come into contact with many health-care professionals , ca regi vers , and pieces of medical equipment , all of which could spread the fun gus onto their skin or into their bodies .
austerity fatigue in the periphery is clearly evident from the success of anti-establishment forces in italy ’ s recent election ; large street demonstrations in spain , portugal , and elsewhere ; and now the bot ched bailout of cypriot banks , which has fueled massive public anger .
the legislation could pass only if it was hidden from view and voted on in the middle of the night .
with the world expected to continue growing rapidly , there are excellent investment opportunities that will be funded only if capital continues to move into countries that can use it produc tively .
under the rule of law , if the government wants to prevent firms from outsourcing and off shoring , it en acts legislation and adopts regulations to create the appropriate incentives and discourage undesirable behavior . it does not bully or threaten particular firms or portray traum atized refugees as a security threat .
so , who is this “ we ” that must now take action ?
although open- ocean aqu ac ulture should still require less diesel fuel than commercial fishing – and could run on renewable energy sources like solar , wind , or waves – offshore aqu ac ulture is more energy-intensive than conventional fish farms .
if we in the coco a sector handle the current challenge well , we can help forge a way forward for more sustainable sourcing of other agricultural products .
the sdgs can create a path toward economic development that is technologically advanced , socially fair , and environmentally sustainable .
geographic information systems ( g is ) allow for real-time monitoring across local governments and districts in far- fl ung regions .
seize the sustainable future
and higher sea levels are just one potential threat .
governments , politicians , and international organizations must harness the potential of the internet to serve global development and individual empowerment .
why the sustainable development goals matter
though most emerging economies no longer rely on aid , it remains crucially important for low-income countries .
we need to strip back the development agenda to its core issues , and focus on those areas where each dollar spent can achieve the most for humanity .
by taking advantage of new technologies , now widely available at affordable prices , countries can finally move toward long-term energy security and away from the inherent volatility of oil markets .
reforming financial-sector taxation would also help to reduce excessive risk-taking and leverage .
it is already clear that achieving sustainable development is not possible without sustainable energy .
the government has launched public information campaigns and is training election workers , strengthening cyber defenses , and conducting ongoing threat and vulnerability assessments .
allowing a state of affairs in which jews are frightened to leave their homes ?
in particular , the pace of job creation achieved in the last few years must be maintained .
recomm ending measures that the public can not implement creates a sense of fu tility , not a sense of control .
nonetheless , it argues that a victory in syria by a coalition of russia , iran , hezbollah , and assad ’ s regime would pose an even greater danger .
fortunately , syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s two main allies , iran and russia , have reasons for seeking a ceasefire .
failure to punish their use in the syrian civil war risks undermining the regime that has brought us to the threshold of a chemical weapon s- free world .
saudi arabia wanted assad gone to weaken a client state of iran , the kingdom ’ s main rival for regional primacy .
a good place to start would be by urging the so-called e 3 / eu + 3 group – that is , the five permanent members of the un security council ( china , france , russia , the us , and the uk ) , germany , and the eu – to convene .
as a practical matter , assad leads one of the conflict ’ s most powerful factions , one that must be represented at the negotiating table if peace is to be achieved .
for those of us with long memories , it is impossible not to draw comparisons with past rulers – the assad regime and isis .
the bush administration , while not formally blaming syria , virtually did so and recalled its ambassador to damascus .
this does not bode well for syria .
this reduced the risk of escalation , but it also ruled out many potential targets , limiting the price paid by the syrian government for what it had done .
likewise , in order to rebuild syrian civil society for the long term , all of the war ring parties will have to take responsibility for their crimes .
given that the country 's official debt constitutes the bulk of its overall public debt , the government wants it reduced .
milan – several years ago , i had the privilege of chair ing a commission on growth in developing countries .
her angu ished father spent the entire session stro king her arm .
but the biggest problem has been the failure of the developed countries – the architects of the post-world war ii international order – to formulate an inclusive strategy to address global challenges and manage the transition to a new international system .
the world and its worries are meant to close down while europeans re pose .
for example , when the new class of pain killers called co x - 2 inhib itors was introduced , regulators , physicians , and patients were unaware that these drugs could cause heart attacks and stro kes .
geneva – ask most people to name the two biggest causes of death among children , and they will most likely say malaria and hiv .
unlocking the world ’ s latent talent , and thus its full capacity for growth , requires us to look beyond business cycles and quarterly reports .
the kyoto approach , of course , does none of these things .
there , it was just letting off steam , no different from che ering or boo ing ; or it was a “ legitimate ” tactic , no different from need ling an opponent by challenging his man hood .
to ensure that countries have timely access to temporary support during liquidity cr un ches , the various layers of the global financial safety net need to be sti t ched together , and a new imf standing liquidity facility should be at the core of the enhanced global safety net .
president ra jap ak sa ’ s predecessors spent years engaged in fruit less talks and ceas ef ires , during which the guerrillas remained committed to their aim of dividing the country , and making demands for political and socio- economic changes that no democracy could accept , even as they carried on killing and kidn apping .
just as the federal reserve exists to ensure that monetary policy is not inconsistent with price stability , the fiscal stabilization board would guarantee that spending authority remains in line with the legisl ated level of taxes .
costs are expected to decrease further as the market for equipment grows and as more village populations take charge of operations and maintenance .
targeting non- communicable diseases
moreover , a higher inflation target – and the restoration of credibility that it would imply – would enable central banks to return to a lower inflation target without creating a recession once debt levels had been reduced and aggregate demand had recovered .
fifty are invest or- owned companies , including ch ev ron t exac o , exxonmobil , shell , bp , and pe abo dy energy ; 31 are state-owned companies , such as saudi ar am co and norway ’ s stat oil ; and nine are states like saudi arabia and china .
( and this assumes that the other does not respond and fuel a race to the bottom . )
to change the israeli-palestinian dynamic , external actors now need to influence the political calculus inside israel and palestine by lowering the political cost of peace and raising the cost of occupation .
in brief , the introduction of a tissue tax would be both a fair and a wise way to redress the double standard that currently governs the collaborative biomedical research enterprise .
and i hope that the movement captures the imagination of progressives , who are equally disgu sted with the corruption of the status quo , and who can agree on many them atic goals , even if their policy proposals might be different .
this raises serious risks : as beneficial as big tech ’ s innovations are , they can also serve as important channels for state or non-state actors to bring about their own disruptions .
is big tech destroying retail markets ?
any initiative to boost tech literacy must focus on three areas .
but , in an increasingly complex world , meritocratic and utilit arian technocracy is likely to produce far better outcomes than today ’ s divisive and fact- averse populism .
that is why governments , donors , and the private sector must work together to create business and pricing models that allow for cost recovery while still providing an adequate level of digital service to the poorest consumers .
northwestern university ’ s robert gordon is less optimistic .
in the 18 0 0s , the american dairy industry spearheaded a similar misinformation campaign about marg ar ine , claiming that it caused ster ility , stunted growth , and male bal dness .
but jer ry k ap lan ’ s recent book humans need not apply : a guide to wealth and work in the age of artificial intelligence has impressed upon me the true size of the socioeconomic stakes .
just as scientific breakthroughs can facilitate technological innovation , technological advances enable scientific discovery , which drives more technological change .
still , despite these long trends , the political and policy status quo remained largely unchallenged until 2008 .
guns require just a little training to operate , whereas an electrical utility requires a large team of people with varied expertise to run the gener ators , install and service the transmission lines and sub- stations , limit theft , and compel customers to pay their bills on time .
indeed , the factory of the future may be 1,000 robots and one worker man ning them .
whether consumers ’ generally tolerant attitudes toward these companies will be sufficient to offset historic concerns over size and abuse of market power remains to be seen .
in just the past year , we have seen the proliferation of devices such as google home and amazon echo do t ( alex a ) , which replace some aspects of household help .
for the first time since the 1930s , the us has a president who views trade as a zero-sum game .
and the entrance of croatia , followed by mon ten e gr o and a few other balkan countries , could compensate for the departure of greece ( should it come to that for the greeks ) .
during the cold war , the us had been even more vulnerable , in technological terms , to a nuclear attack from russia , but “ mutual assured destruction ” prevented the worst by keeping vulnerability more or less sym metr ical .
many centr ists agree that an optimal fiscal policy would feature short-term stimulus , a multi-year medium-term deficit reduction plan , and measures to reduce long-term liabilities , especially if retrenchment protected growth- oriented public-sector investments .
a world divided into political blocs will become a world of trade blocs , sustained by protectionism and currency manipulation .
the way ahead is clear : vigil ance against violence coupled with political possibility .
six thousand americans die annually from tex ting or talking on the phone while driving .
in this case , it ’ s all about china and the us – the polar extremes of the world ’ s saving distribution .
obama inherited a fraught foreign policy agenda : a global economic crisis , two
putin is widely known to be a mar ti al- arts enthusi ast , and his action in syria is entirely consistent with many of the discipline ’ s principles , including the importance of the decisive thrust that neutr alizes the opponent ’ s strengths and explo its his weaknesses .
figure 2 . total global emissions ( gig at ons )
elections conducted according to such a constitution are unlikely to produce legitimate results .
it was not for nothing that he had two man city players accompany him on his return to thailand .
the fear of an audit by the internal revenue service lur ks in homes across the country .
if what is happening now turns out to be something worse than a temporary soft pat ch , the market correction will continue further , thus weakening growth as the negative wealth effects of falling equity markets reduce private spending .
the lower the price of risk , the higher the price of risky assets .
the utilit arian economic logic is clear .
m r s. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs .
the career of his political ment or , men ach em begin , demonstrated that distorted analogies between past and present can inspire irresponsible policies .
firms need more flexibility to adjust their pay rol ls in adverse economic conditions ; and workers need more security , provided by better training and active labor-market policies .
it is clear what is needed : a european fiscal authority that is able and willing to reduce the debt burden of the periphery , as well as a banking union .
karzai can leave no better legacy than an orderly transition , and has no interest in seeing all that he has achieved go up in flames .
the us is doing its best to support not a particular party , but rather a conception of liberal democracy that entails free and fair elections and a mode of governance that respects and includes minority views and up holds individual rights .
while no state- run tv station had live current affairs programs ten years ago , now even stations from some of the most dictatorial regimes are forced to raise their level and allow live interviews .
we need scientif ically literate politicians adept at evidence-based critical thinking to translate these findings and recommendations into policy and international agreements .
with the us still by far the largest economy in the world and the anchor of the international monetary system , its well-being has huge implications everywhere .
while americans are relieved by france ’ s display of determination , they can not refrain from expressing a sense of b em us ement : do the french really know what they are up against ?
who will replace an obsolete non proliferation regime , provide collective security in emerging international hot spots , and build momentum behind middle east peace talks ?
the un ha - 3 , a three- stage rocket weighing 92 tons , follows the un ha - 2 , which failed spectacularly in 2009 , so the evident progress that north korea has made in its missile technology in such a short period has shocked governments around the world .
this meeting in rome from november 16 - 18 provides badly needed political momentum to three linked issues that rank among the most challenging of the current era : food security , biodiversity , and climate change .
most clearly , political change will not occur in the same fashion across the diverse countries of the arab world .
although good governance and human rights remained among the en p ’ s proclaimed goals , official communications of the european commission show that it emphasized security and border control .
cairo – last year ’ s events in egypt and tunisia drew the curtain on a tot tering old order and delivered much of the arab world into a long-awaited new era . but what that new era will look like remains very much an open question , given the many challenges that the region ’ s countries still face .
so the tremendous victory of the muslim brotherhood and the al- n our party in egypt – as well as that of en na h da in tunisia – should come as no surprise .
but this was an asymmetrical peace .
when the oslo process began , he refused to accept any official position within the palestinian authority , choosing instead to remain close to the local fatah cad res .
a fire that bur ns into a community is a disaster , but if we see fire only as a disaster , then we will follow the example of many wild land fire agencies that are adopting urban , all- hazard models in place of traditional land management .
east asia needs to maintain a fine balance of political- security requirements in much the same way .
if china can not do very much about existing gross assets and gross liabilities , it should address new assets and liabilities in order to minimize future capital losses .
as the person in charge of iran ’ s nuclear policy , compromising is as dangerous for him as di gging in his heels .
inequality within countries has increased , and inequality between countries increased sharply after 1980 , before leveling off in the late 1990 ’ s and finally falling back after 2000 , as catch-up growth in developing countries accelerated .
massive purchases of government bonds by the ecb would be the worst type of bailout .
serbia is offering kosovo the formula “ less than independence , more than autonomy . ”
the basel committee has proposed strengthening considerably both the quantity and the quality of capital in the global banking system .
the uk ’ s ic b has rightly stated that there is room to improve both competition and stability , given the current weak regulatory framework , but it would be im prudent to strive for the complete elimination of market power in banking .
on becoming president , barack obama replaced it with a bust of abraham lincoln .
the ambition of a country and a society born of the principles of the enlightenment can not be to create a people armed to the teeth with guns yet entirely dis armed in the face of illness .
ba ath ism was dictatorial and oppressive – often brutally so – but it protected minorities and the secular elites .
but , in the twentieth century , with greater security of conditions and continuous economic growth , it became normal for individuals , companies , and governments to borrow in anticipation of earnings – to spend money they did not have , but that they expected to have .
consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast ballots in september for their parliament 's lower house .
yet it did not want to repeat the experience of the z ach ari as mous sa ou i trial , in which , after many propag an dis tic appeals from the doc k , the alleged twentieth september 11 , 2001 , hij acker was finally convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment .
s onia gandhi is ru mored to have cancer , but , rather than capit alizing on it , she has kept the details within the walls of the gandhi family compound in new delhi .
in the united states , republicans propose to balance the budget within ten years by reforming entitlement spending and taxes ( with fewer exemptions , deductions , and credits providing the revenue needed to reduce personal tax rates and a corporate rate that , at 35 % , is the highest in the oecd ) .
what did kuroda and his colleagues expect ?
a development bank anchored in emerging markets and developing countries can help to address this gap and become a powerful catalyst for change , both in the developing world and – through collaboration and example – in existing institutions .
the us faces similar pressures , even though we are one of the world ’ s most open economies .
although the recently enacted two-year stimulus package includes a total of $ 800 billion of tax reductions and increased government spending , it would be wrong to think that this will add anything close to $ 400 billion a year to gdp in each of the next two years .
opponents of fiscal stimulus cyn ically claim that all such efforts are bound to fail , citing as evidence us president george w. bush ’ s tax cuts !
but a liberal society will allow people in and make exceptions for conditions under which they must be kept out , rather than keeping people out and making exceptions for when they should be allowed in .
by contrast , david remn ick , the editor of the new yor ker , weighed in with a piece on the t sar na ev brothers that opened with stalin ’ s ban ishment of the chechen people “ from their homeland in the northern caucasus to central asia and the siber ian wast es . ”
trapped in kin sh as a , under appalling conditions , the brain will drain away in less time than it takes to get to new york .
new delhi – in 2001 , when jim o ’ ne ill of goldman sachs coined the ac ron y m bric to refer to brazil , russia , india , and china , the world had high hopes for the four emerging economies , whose combined gdp was expected to reach $ 12 8. 4 trillion by 2050 , dwar fing america ’ s projected gdp of $ 3 8.5 trillion .
it gives every member , big or small , a platform and a voice .
africa boasts the world ’ s fastest-growing market for wi reless teleph ony , and huawei – with offices in 14 african countries – is running away with the business , sending scores of engineers into the bush to bring a new generation of low-cost technology to some of the planet ’ s poorest people .
bush chose the people who provided him with faulty information about iraq , or at least he chose the heads of the organizations that provided the faulty information .
similarly , healthy and sustainable globalization should not impose a stra it jacket of common rules on everyone .
“ i can ’ t even tell you about the way my clients were tortured or i will be prosecuted , ” he says .
with 12 % of america ’ s population , california accounts for more than 31 % of its public- assistance recipients .
at the same time , tan ning parl ors should be regulated .
and the collapse of housing starts has lowered construction spending by another $ 200 billion .
despite efforts to build a for tress europe , over a million foreigners bypass its def ences every year ; some enter cover tly , but most just over stay their visas and work ill icitly .
it follows the palestinian national council ’ s declaration in 1988 of a palestinian state alongside the state of israel .
but this unprecedented growth has also put tremendous pressures on the planet .
enhanced competition and economies of scale in larger , more closely integrated financial markets should narrow lending margins , lower intermediation costs , and allocate funds more efficiently .
indeed , with an increasingly len ient political regime , populism may become irresistible , while the size of the government bureaucracy may continue to blo at .
but a closer look at what he is doing , and not doing , shows clearly that he has mostly heard the call of his campaign contributors from the oil and coal industries , and that he has once again put their interests over the global interest in reducing emissions .
but it is not enough for the us and european union countries to improve their energy efficiency unless other countries do so as well .
the fact that om ar al- bashir , sudan ’ s president , is not especially keen to agree to the united nations ’ plan to beef up its peacekeeping force in the country ahead of the referendum raises concern about his intentions .
such concerns are understandable but manifest ly exaggerated .
indeed , since the late 1990 ’ s , the real estate investment- to-gdp ratio has been far higher than it was in countries like japan and korea during their high-growth periods .
similarly , many african states now seem to be leaning heavily toward china in its dispute with taiwan .
japan air lines , which was almost bankrupt , was rescued by a government bailout , a device that seems to be increasingly common .
of course , to meet these needs , banks must be safer and stronger than they were prior to the crises .
the climate imperative
but , as we learned in the 1990 's , this does not mean that the coming challenges will be easier to handle .
the rest of central europe and the baltic states followed his lead .
despite a long history of alliance dating back to the american revolution and including two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambival ent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial security policy undercut america ’ s attractiveness in france .
instead , nato members should pledge to defend any middle eastern state that is attacked with nuclear weapons .
but , rather than focusing on the government ’ s weaknesses – energy , europe , education , and family policy – they bet their political fortunes on social justice .
today , remn ants of this dna – amounting to roughly 3 % of some people ’ s genom es – are present in austr al asia .
in other words , investors are expecting to receive only about half of what they are owed .
the danger of a currency war and protectionism should not be underestimated .
here are the lessons thus far :
it can also be seen in the continuing greek objections to macedonia ’ s name and the bundestag ’ s insistence on approv ing the progress of individual applic ant states – a demand that has complicated relations with turkey enormously .
kerry ’ s formidable task is to persuade the palestinians to accept a smaller state than they want and the israelis to accept a smaller state than they have .
sal im id ris , the council ’ s chief of staff , has expressed a willingness to fight alongside extremist groups that refuse to accept the unified command .
consider the korean scientist h wang wo o- su k , whose claim to have extr acted stem cells from human embryos that he cl oned turned out to be based on ph ony research .
cooperatives have also wrest led with questions of members ’ entry and exit , financial disclosure , and relationships with the non- cooperative sector .
the resulting “ race to the bottom ” reflects intensifying global competition for capital and technological knowhow to support local jobs and wages .
rules were for others , and at the very end of his term in office his one public disagreement with bush concerned the president ’ s refusal to pardon cheney ’ s former chief of staff , s coo ter lib by , who had been convicted of per jury .
cameron has said on several occasions that he wishes to avoid a referendum revol ving around the simple choice of continued eu membership on the basis of the current terms of membership .
with the financial crisis worsening , the london summit in 2009 agreed to unprecedented fiscal and monetary stimulus and backed a stronger , more coherent regulatory and supervisory framework worldwide .
the united nations ’ dutch batt al ion promised to protect the muslims there , even though it was in no position to do so .
the public can be forgiven for cho king on this kind of stuff .
although his thai ra k thai ( tr t ) party commands a 75 % majority in the assembly , thaksin is emb att led .
but poland never stopped str iding – and striking – for independence .
according to a last testament left behind by the att acker , a swedish citizen named ta im our abdul wa hab  , christmas shop pers in down town stockholm had to die in retaliation for “ the swe des ’ support ” for l ars vil ks , an artist who stir red outrage in the country with draw ings of the prophet muhammad as a dog .
for only the us – with all its power and sense of mission – had the ability to establish a new world order at the beginning of the twenty-first century .
the response to the economic crisis in thailand and korea in the late 1990 ’ s was emph atic pre aching about the inherent superiority of the so-called anglo-saxon economic model .
while small amounts of trans fats are naturally present in me ats and dairy products from cows , she ep , and other rum in ants , the great majority of trans fats in our diet are industri ally- produced , contained in foods made with partially hydro gen ated vege table o ils .
at best , these are marginally useful ; more often , they are harmful in today ’ s circumstances .
for example , the countries that were con signed by roosevelt and churchill to stalin ’ s un- t ender merc ies are now mostly part of the european union .
self-determination has turned out to be an ambiguous moral principle .
belg ian separatists like to observe that belgium was never a natural nation-state , but an accident of history .
now that king fa had is gone , old scores among his numerous brothers and half brothers , not to mention the thousands of princes in the next generation , will need to be settled .
they did not curse what they had glor ified in the past and embrace what they had once condemned .
princeton – three significant events relating to the death penalty occurred in the united states during september .
greece is currently too interconnected to be allowed to collapse : since it has about $ 400 billion of public debt – three-quarters of which is held abroad , mostly by european financial institutions – a disorderly default would lead to massive losses and risk a systemic crisis .
but the eurozone ’ s leaders have not heeded their advice – and the consequences are becoming increasingly apparent .
decent work also implies equality of opportunity and treatment as well as good prospects for both personal development and social inclusion .
instead of distributing oil revenues through a program of low-cost loans , as promised , the government has been forced to r ation gasoline , as economic promise has given way to crisis .
how do you convince your passionate followers if other , equally cred enti aled , economists take the opposite view ?
sectarian conflict seems to be increasing on a daily basis , with militias massac ring hundreds of sunnis and shi ites solely on the basis of their religious identities .
for a while , as industrial countries recovered in 2010 , this seemed like the right medicine .
in recent weeks , many european countries have pledged to honor the 0.7 % commitment , and five european countries ( denmark , luxembourg , the netherlands , norway , and sweden ) already do so .
so , will the global economy stage a sustained recovery ?
other commentators , however , have criticized the registr y for potentially compromising patient conf identi ality and privacy , and even for disrupting the relationship between patients and their doctors .
the digital war on poverty
ethics commissions want to establish limits on research , even if these require frequent re- negotiation .
or “ president mubarak has our complete confidence . ”
in fact , it is only the latest in a long line of nuclear accidents involving melt downs , explo sions , fires , and loss of cool ant – accidents that have occurred during both normal operation and emergency conditions , such as droughts and earthquakes .
the primary causes of this recent epidemic are ger ms and mit es , but these have always been with us .
the bush administration didn ’ t see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they came , then minim ized their significance , and , finally , panicked .
thus , in scotland today there are none of the conditions that fom ented rebellion in ireland and led to irish independence in 19 22 , the last great rupture in the political union of the british isl es .
successful multilateral trade negotiations have significantly shaped the world in which we live and have dramatically enhanced the lives of millions of people .
in that case , maintaining a weak renminbi would protect the trade balance from a flood of imports .
rome responded by reducing the gold / silver content ( the ancient equivalent of monetization ) , which led to sustained inflation in the empire .
the claim that exchange-rate appreciation will reduce a country ’ s trade surplus is false , because , in globally integrated economies , domestic investment falls when the exchange rate appreci ates .
but , according to a recent human rights report , despite the emergency law , 89 people were killed and 2 36 wounded in terrorist attacks in egypt during the previous 12 months .
but they are not sufficient .
at the local level , conservatives and liberals tend to be at d agg ers drawn .
at the same time , the us can be cautious about involving japan in taiwan issues – a neur alg ic point for china – while encouraging the development of asian institutions that increase contacts and dampen conflict .
the latest ze w survey of euro-zone business confidence butt res ses these fears .
the exemption for secured debt undoubtedly concerns mainly the refinancing loans that the ecb has extended to commercial banks against increasingly weak collateral .
but this is a big “ if ” .
calm economic waters had given the ecb and trichet a hon ey moon until last fall .
as long as such a “ one- pil lar - approach ” is un available , there is no convincing reason why the ecb should change a strategy which has served it well and allowed it to establish a remarkable track record .
another example is piracy , which can threaten vital trade and energy routes .
but there is some good news : hiv infection rates are slowing in large parts of asia and latin america , which appears to reflect a ( very uneven ) increase in prevention programs .
indeed , it is a failure of governance that has characterized the stability and growth pact , designed ( largely by germany ) to ensure sound macroeconomic policy by limiting national debt and deficit ratios .
but , for workers , the news is not all positive , with machines replacing humans in an increasing number of domains – far beyond routine physical and clerical activities .
the economics of happiness
and , while military innovation has been spectacular , it is still very labor-intensive .
in settling the afghan war , the government and donors should seek to esche w the pattern of un kept promises that has be dev iled reconstruction of the country in the past .
and the monthly purchasing surveys conducted by the institute for supply management now indicate weaker activity among service firms as well .
economic shocks are destabilizing countries and regions , and inflicting great social and financial hard ships on families and their communities .
for example , the age at which cannabis use begins appears to be an important factor .
egypt was clearly the most important part of this strategy , and its political instability has raised questions not only about turkey ’ s political model , but also about the security of its economic interests .
globalization has led to a weakening of social contracts within nation-states and regional blocs and even among continents .
what it un es sells is one form of intellectual content . other forms will follow .
this was first demonstrated in the 1960 ’ s , when guatem alan researchers gave children in two random ly selected villages a nutriti ous por rid ge each day , and a much less nutriti ous fruit drink to children in two other villages .
unless the european environment deterior ates sharply , europe ’ s travails will not be the main story for the global economy in 2013 .
in a way , then , the war in iraq forms the strategic and military bridge between the old and the new middle east .
why has the association of south east asian nations ( asean ) been so slow and weak in its response to a natural calamity that ravaged one of its own members ?
current us policy toward iraq and afghanistan costs roughly $ 150 billion per year , which is more than 20 % of total us defense spending .
this implied that they had to rescue these si v ’ s .
the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but too little .
that has been the case in developing asia , not just in india and indonesia today , but also in the 1990 ’ s , when sharply widening current-account deficits were a harbinger of the wrenching financial crisis of 1997-1998 .
1 .
likewise , micro- credit schemes throughout the developing world have provided finance for the poor to expand their economic enterprise , with repayment rates that are truly impressive .
yes , all investors should have a very modest share of gold in their portfolios as a hedge against extreme tail risks .
the diverse paths followed by russia and china may be explained in part by how the two peoples perceive themselves .
a spanish bank run , financial crash , and euro exit follow in short order .
but , given time , people can and do respond by lowering their consumption of oil .
indeed , the new eu members are projected to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by at least 21 % by 2010 .
of course , infrastructure can be rebuilt much more quickly than the environment can be restored or recover on its own . in the case of lebanon , however , the two are closely linked , as much of the environmental damage comes from destroyed infrastructure .
for the sake of what principle can we ask china and india , for example , to limit their economic dynamism so that they use smaller amounts of the planet ’ s natural resources ?
i believe that the key factors now are somewhat different from those that drove up food prices in 2008 .
de gre y ’ s response to the first objection is that , while anti- aging treatment may be expensive initially , the price is likely to drop , as it has for so many other innovations , from computers to the drugs that prevent the development of aids .
citizenship tests are an integral part of this program ; and , in the eyes of critics , they resemble “ loyalty o a ths ” and other intoler ant measures traditionally associated with the anti- communist wit ch- hun ts of mcc arth yism in 1950 ’ s america .
should i have refused to read a pir ated book ?
it seems that ethiopia , more often than not , is the victim of diplomatic double standards .
with the new agreement , the union has once again started to move .
without that prospect , no candidate country would go through the painful process of adopting the tens of thousands of rules and regulations contained in the acqu is commun au ta ire ( the body of eu law ) .
in ten short years , the euro revolutionized the global economic environment , rising to the status of the world ’ s second currency and riv aling the dollar as a medium for international trade and finance .
but today ’ s europeans have no domestic currency – just the euro .
several lessons can be learned from these episodes .
it should be recapit alized on a sufficient scale to offset the contractionary effects of europe ’ s national deficit- reduction programs .
professor gordon also points out that america 's more extreme climate - col der w inter s ( save in florida and california ) and hot ter summers ( save in washington , or eg on , and california ) - must spend more on heating and cooling .
this contrasts with the us , even after the 1999 repeal of the glass-steagall act ’ s ban on aff iliation between banks and companies engaged principally in under writing securities .
but things may turn out very differently if the dynamics of europe ’ s crisis throw german politicians ’ plans into disarray .
after the common currency ’ s first decade , however , increased divergence , rather than rapid convergence , has become the norm within the euro area , and tensions can be expected to increase further .
a british school teacher expressed the sentiment well in 19 10 : “ we suspect the man who talks patriotism and imperialism , just as we suspect him who talks religion or any of the things that are of deepest value in life .
it is not just confidence in europe ’ s periphery that is waning . the survival of the euro itself is being put in doubt .
this implies using official resources like the efsf not to backstop an insolvent greece , but to recapitalize the country ’ s banks – and those in ireland , spain , portugal , italy , and even germany and belgium that need more capital .
skeptics have plenty of ammunition for their critique of the euro .
the german rebound was initially robust because world trade rose rapidly after a precip itous fall .
nowhere in the world do neighbors live together more peacefully , and people move more freely and with greater security , than in europe , owing in part to a new european identity that is not bound to national citizenship .
kosovo ’ s declaration of independence has put stability in the western balkans back on europe ’ s agenda .
this bold move could pres age a game- changing role for the eu in bringing about a long-awaited resolution to the israel-palestine conflict .
the same sort of logic applies to the large states : france and germany are losing skilled labor at the same time as they are drawing in cheaper labor from eastern europe .
first , it is clear that bilater alism is growing as multilateralism wan es .
a somewhat more sensible concern might be that the dollar ’ s reser ve- currency status causes it to be “ over- valued ” with respect to every currency , not just the renminbi .
but the imf imposed strict austerity on these countries , pushing them into a prolonged depression .
it is the “ moderates ” who must now adapt their policies .
as long as greece paid these high rates , cypriot banks could pay their depositors attractive rates , such as 4.5 % , and thrive .
developing countries currently face higher rates of inflation not because of poorer macro- management , but because oil and food prices are soaring , and these items represent a much larger share of the average household budget than in rich countries .
people became aware of the need for truly global governance . and , at long last , a number of proposals emerged aimed at making such governance a reality .
b out ro s gh ali , ne p he w of the former un secretary-general , interior minister hab ib al ad li , and such powerful figures as ibrahim su le im an and saf w at sharif are engaged in similar deals , sometimes in partnership with mubarak ’ s sons .
spain now pays almost 1 % of its gdp in subsidies for renewables , which is more than it spends on higher education .
what they are hin ting at is no less than a tectonic shift in the international system : the shift from a unipolar to a multipolar world .
budget deficits offered what appeared to be a free lunch , as the resulting inflation eroded the real value of public debt , while the government had privileged access to private savings at near-zero real interest rates .
that means more debt restructuring and more bank closures now , rather than wat ering down proposals to rein in fre e whe eling markets .
generously interpreted , past loans reflected naïve optimism that with a bit of seed money , politically and economically backward countries would generate maj es tic growth and effor t lessly repay their loans .
because the eu has a fixed emission target for 2020 , it will offset emissions elsewhere ( perhaps with more wind power ) , regardless of the type of car purchased : 3 8. 75 tons of co2 from a gasoline car , and 16 tons from the electricity produced for an electric car .
while widely held firms dominate the capital markets of the us and the uk , controlled companies dominate in most other countries .
in their minds , these bodies merely impede and constrain realization of the people ’ s will .
who can honestly say that public debate has become more rational and less paranoid when our governments have become more transparent ?
hence , the danger to israel lay in the s is yp he an effort to sub ju gate the palestinians .
obama , too , is sticking to his guns with his recent proposal for an additional $ 450 billion of government expenditure and tax cuts to help boost employment .
if our behavior is based on fear , we will look with suspicion on all those who are different from us , deepening the alienation of the millions inside and outside our countries who believe that they can not integrate into even the most open societies .
rapid normalization – like that undertaken in the space of a year in 1994 – would crash asset markets and risk leading to a hard economic landing .
in his august 31 address to the world ’ s most influential annual monetary policy conference in jackson hole , wy oming , united states federal reserve chairman ben bernanke cool ly explained why the fed is determined to resist pressure to stabilize sw o oning equity and housing prices .
democracy will be decisive because it generates investments in education , health , and economic empowerment that reward ordinary voters .
but we do not even know who will succeed hillary clinton as us secretary of state when obama ’ s second term formally begins in january , or who will be on the white house security team .
the fo g of finance
occasionally , this sudden , complete memory loss occurs after severe stress , but not invariably .
having acquies ced in the genocide , the international community has conveniently forgotten it , and no pakistani official has ever been brought to justice .
and they must win people ’ s allegiance by the power of their values and their ideals – not only by isolating terrorists and extremists , but also by helping , in meaningful ways , poor countries to prosper .
for women , who remained disenfranch ised , free trade was a kind of substitute citizenship : parliament safegu ar ded their interests as consumers by keeping the door open for cheap imports .
the fragility of a flat world
most french politicians and bureaucrats call such notions s care mongering .
but that goal looks harder to reach now than it did before the beginning of the european crisis .
powerful mainstream socialists , such as former prime minister la ur ent fab ius , joined traditional leftist minorities in the party – either rig idly euroskeptic or un realistically euro maxim alist – to rally around refusal .
the french will undergo major shocks in the years to come , but france might be the only european country standing tall 30 years from now .
the first is safety ; the second is radiation .
despite repeated assertions by fed officials that they are committed to near-zero short-term interest rates for the foreseeable future , hints of qe tapering have caused yields on ten-year us treasury bonds to rise by 100 basis points from this year ’ s lows .
the report is the result of a longstanding china- world bank partnership .
does this blogg er ever say anything negative , or is she always talking about the great products she uses ?
it ’ s structure – the same sort of context the old yahoo ! catal ogue supplied , but this time automatically generated and deeper – and across more than just a few categories such as sports and travel .
he ’ s right , of course .
but that does not mean that the initial fear was wrong .
nevertheless , even given eventual development of an affordable , safe , fl y / drive , air port - independent personal transportation system , there would still be a need to re- invent long- haul transport , especially for tran so ce anic flights .
one senior g-8 official told me that the aid promises are all lies anyway .
all of these options are , however , short-term responses , and will likely be insufficient to bringing about any serious change in north korea .
the term “ energy security ” in europe has been hijacked to empower suppliers and weaken importers , implying a drastic reduction in competition , rising political vulnerability , and the erosion of the rule of law .
new delhi – will “ mission cre ep ” in the west ’ s intervention in libya end up creating , inadvertently , a jihadist cit ad el at europe ’ s southern door step ?
the former president of the fifa , jo ao ha vel ange , often dreamed of a football match between israelis and palestinians : the american vice- president al gore regarded such a match as a means to help washington solve the israeli-palestinian conflict .
reformers also have the ob as an jo government ’ s neo-liberal economic policies , which they describe as “ punitive and intellectually bankrupt , ” in their sights .
after defeating both the qing dynasty and russia , japan not only gained control over the korean peninsula , but also extended its reach deep into northeast china .
duke energy , america ’ s largest utility , has shel ved plans to build two reactors in florida , after having spent $ 1 billion on the project .
first , the frequency of meetings should be increased , especially in times of crisis , and the level of a few of these meetings enhanced .
given synchronized fiscal retrenchment in most advanced economies , another year of mediocre growth could give way to outright contraction in some countries .
with insufficient end ogenous healing and no economic escape velocity , the effectiveness of central banks ’ policies wan es and political dysfunction increases , leading to financial losses , volatility spi kes , and huge risk- management challenges .
people in tokyo will assume some of this risk by purchasing new york home price futures if the price is right .
cambridge – since assuming the presidency earlier this year , barack obama ’ s primary legislative focus has been on reforming the financing of american health care .
by 2035 , shale gas is projected to account for roughly one-half of total us energy production .
if successful , it would cover more than 40 % of global gdp and account for large shares of world trade and foreign direct investment .
the rise in inequality is the product of a vicious spiral : the rich rent- seekers use their wealth to shape legislation in order to protect and increase their wealth – and their influence .
the burden of weak or non-existent recoveries should not be borne by the unemployed , including the young .
once again , some christians say that we have all inherited the original sin committed by eve , who defied god ’ s decre e against eating from the tree of knowledge .
but all bubbles eventually burst .
the creation of the international criminal court strengthens all of these efforts to bring abuses of power by the powerful to book .
in particular , we believe that an international agreement on trade facilitation is the right step , as it would reduce export and import costs and restore momentum to global trade liberalization .
in order to rescue the banking system , the federal reserve , for example , put interest rates at artificially low levels ; as was disclosed recently , it also has provided secret loans of $ 1.2 trillion to banks .
just as free trade provides the low est- cost goods and services , benefiting both consumers and the most efficient producers , global academic competition is making free movement of people and ideas , on the basis of merit , more and more the norm , with enormously positive consequences for individuals , universities , and countries .
yet men all over the world tune in to american- made fantasies of male bon ding and male escape – escape from the bonds of work and domes tic ity , and , if only for a youthful period of the male lif esp an , from long-term commitment to women themselves .
robert k ap lan wisely obser ves that “ indian geography is the story of inv asions from a north west erly direction , ” and “ india ’ s strategic challenges still in here in this fact , ” which is why afghanistan , to indian eyes , is linked to the sub- continent ’ s history , and thus our future .
he was , of course , right in his judgment that the only way to prevent any modern industrial war from becoming a destructive tragedy for all was to quickly conclude a ceasefire .
the great man syndrome
it is also necessary to have access to well- equipped clinics and medical staff .
that is what is happening now , and 2009 will shape up as a year of even more profound disenchan tment .
being long cds , the risk automatically declines if they are wrong .
it is one of dozens of similar operations – from the world ’ s largest salt fl ats in the south , to lake ti tic aca in the west , to the eastern p ant an al wetlands – that combine economic growth with conservation .
the gre ening of china
the bali conference last year agreed to include avoided deforestation in tropical countries into a new climate regime , which could generate new employment opportunities in sustainable management , conservation , and tourism .
with charm and un assuming clear- head ed ness , she wrought a compromise from the g8 countries that may help save the world from the most severe devast ations caused by global warming .
the standard reply is that green technologies seem more expensive only because the price of fossil fuels does not reflect their climate costs .
too big to handle
so , although dollar bonds and , increasingly , dollar equities are a large part of these countries ’ sovereign wealth accounts , most of the dollar securities that they hold are not needed to finance trade imbalances .
fundament al s- based investing is giving way to a fran tic search for relative barg ains in an increasingly over priced financial world .
indeed , that peaceful revolution , led by viktor yushchenko and y uli ya tymoshenko , was a reminder of how enlightened k iev an r us had been before it was forced to give way to the despotic princes of moscow .
once their common enemy , the secularists , were out of the way , erdoğan had less need for the movement .
overall , that ’ s 60 % of the seats in parliament , won in nearly every district in the west bank and gaza .
indeed , hamas leaders recently acknowledged sending messages to the obama administration calling for dialogue .
as a result , financial markets , which are supposed to manage risk and allocate capital efficiently , created risk and mis allocated wildly .
the rich like to blame the poor , partly because it lets them off the hook , and partly because it gives them a feeling of moral superiority .
joseph stiglitz , the nobel pr iz e- winning economist , also believes that low growth and inequality are interconnected , but he believes that the causal arrow moves in the opposite direction .
so does the ability of households to borrow and lend in order not to be forced to match income and expenditure every day , week , month , or year .
if it happens , one of the world ’ s most oppressed legal workforces will have scored a major victory – largely symbolic for now , but one that will inspire other women garment workers around the world to rise up in protest .
democratic transitions need to be driven by societies that want democracy , and since the latter requires institutions , it is usually a fairly long and drawn out process .
the irrational , obs essive promises made by scientists and physicians in the past few decades have , in a way , institutionalized the denial of death .
it was the politicians who underestimated the technical difficulties when they opted for monetary integration .
for this , he had only his t ong ue , and not even his native t ong ue , but the french that he learned in an orph an age for de ported children at age 15 – and later turned into his viol in .
an imf program restor es confidence in the fiscal s ound ness of governments that markets distrust . the lending allows the necessary medium- and long-term spending cuts and tax increases to be undertaken at a more appropriate time .
until a year ago , the imf used to congrat ulate itself for running out of clients .
by contrast , china achieved economic decentralization , but preserved centralized political power , transferring economic- management responsibilities largely to provincial officials , which has created its own imbalances .
on january 29 , obama will give the first state of the union address of his new term .
the correct move now is to restore confidence in the banking system and the currency .
now and in the future , the world needs the imf to respond flex ibly and effectively to its members ’ needs .
these surpluses reflect high savings rates , both in the private and the public sector , in oil-producing and emerging asian economies , which have resulted in their rapid accumulation of foreign reserves .
guns , like capital flows , have their legitimate uses , but they can also produce catastrophic consequences when used accid entally or placed in the wrong hands .
her first pregnancy was very difficult .
private enterprises , too , benefit from an understanding of ic row d politics .
one such corridor extends 800 kilometers from the bay of beng al across burma to southern china .
but there often are serious costs as well : higher prices for consumers , the damp ening effect on further innovation of reducing access to knowledge , and , in the case of life-saving drugs , death for all who are unable to afford the innovation that could have saved them .
in order to bolster these countries ’ social and economic advancement , the development agenda in the coming years should include a robust commitment to promoting gender equality .
the fed has noted that structural problems in the housing market have impaired its ability to stimulate the economy through this channel .
much of the world , especially europe , but also the slightly less s ick ly us , remains stuck in a semi- slump .
next is x tify , founded by long-time entrepreneur andrew we in re ich , which is focused on time -of- day pricing targeted at people who are nearby and reach able on their mobile phones .
india also has a much better developed financial system than china , an advantage that will be increasingly important as the two countries develop .
it was asked to judge whether there was an imminent threat to world peace requiring pre-emptive military action .
the early 2012 upturn in us economic activity still owes a lot to extraordinarily expansionary monetary policy and unsustainable fiscal deficits .
and , as the irish referendum showed , they do not readily accept unifying initiatives that would make the eu an autonomous center of power .
the ideal is corporatism , which does not separate people into parties , but unites their interests . ”
second , internet service providers , which are in the best position to manage the security of individual users ’ machines , need to get more involved – again with a system that understands the costs of poor security and charges those costs back to the people responsible .
and in 2004 , the iaea ble w the whist le on south korea ’ s non- safegu ar ded plutonium and enrichment experiments .
a better approach is to view computer security as an issue of public health and economics , in which people can protect themselves but must pay for the costs they impose on others .
when we can not be sure how to improve the world , prudence becomes an important virtue , and hu br istic visions can pose a grave danger .
all of them are strong supporters of bush ’ s bel lic ose foreign policy , and all would campaign on the premise that “ fear ” has a greater emotional hold on the american electorate than “ hop e. ” they may well be right .
if the sunni leadership were to feel that it has a stake in the outcome of political events now unfolding , it would also be able to stop the insurgency .
one reason irish voters rejected the lisbon treaty lay in concerns that ireland ’ s voice and representation within eu institutions would be eroded , in particular through the periodic loss of irish representation on the european commission .
but this is like trying to get fat by buying a larger belt .
thus , banks losses on their toxic assets and their capital needs will be much larger than recently estimated , which will worsen the credit crunch .
recovery consists of liquid ating the mis allocations , reducing consumption , and increasing saving .
with significant elements of the global economy and external demand facing headwinds , china ’ s acceptance ( so far ) of a growth slowdown , while its new growth engines kick in , is a good sign , in my view .
india ’ s democracy and burgeoning economy make it a major factor in the asian balance of power , and the recent terrorist attacks in mumbai underscore a shared struggle against violent islamic extremism .
pol pot died in 1998 , but aging senior associates like `` brother number two '' nu on che a and ex- khmer rouge president k hi eu s amp han live freely in cambodia .
indeed , one recent study found that spending money on others is more rewarding than spending it on oneself .
the price was not specified , but the company said its goal is to offer the service for $ 5,000 within a year .
but how they describe themselves – and how analysts describe them – will make an important difference in the direction they might take .
when tony blair , having pro cr ast inated about his departure almost to the point of un reason , finally gives up the british premiership this month , it will be to the general relief not only of the british public as a whole , but also of the overwhelming majority of his own party .
but under the international rules that america is supposed to follow , wars should not be undertaken based on the judgment of one individual and his cab al .
but it remains an open question as to whether the eu will actually be able to stabilize the most fractured polity in the most dangerous area of conflict in europe ’ s immediate neighborhood .
once it became clear that the burden was unbearable , debt should have been cut expedi tiously .
in reality , what russia need are powerful independent social and political organizations that would say : in any presidential term the following things should be done to steer policy , thus making the question of who is president secondary .
obama referred to the us as “ the indispensable nation , ” and that description still holds true , in part because us military spending exceeds that of the next nine countries combined – five times more than china , the world ’ s second-largest military sp ender .
they would bring home skills , technology , and connections that are as valuable as the skills that e to ’ o , essi en , or messi  bring back to camer oon , ghana , or argentina .
and it really is all about whom you know , and how you know them .
whatever weaknesses one finds in the rein har t/ rogoff paper , it does not follow that countries in recession should always disregard deficits and debt levels and focus on stimulus .
he has even appeared at crime scenes – not urban riots , but private crimes of passion , where no reason of state could possibly warrant the presence of the president of the republic .
others must cope with results showing that they carry defects that significantly increase their risk of developing a hereditary form of cancer or dem enti a , or of trans mitting a def ect to their children that could , in turn , cause a serious def ect in their grandchildren .
the idea of a “ social contract ” – which arose during the enlightenment in ord er to address , without resort to divine right , the legitimacy of the state ’ s authority over its citizens – rests on the premise that individuals surrender a certain degree of personal liberty in order to secure peace and prosperity for all .
a last defense offered by advocates of continuing on the path of adventur ous monetary policy , even when the perceived benefits are small , is that , because politicians refuse to settle their differences and act , monetary policy is “ the only game in town . ”
obviously , given the degree of suffering and public anxiety that variant c jd has caused , the possibility that it is rece ding is welcome news .
finally , the business community should use its management expertise , marketing , technology , logistical capacity , and reach to improve the quality and afford ability of nutriti ous foods on the market .
whatever the definition , what has concerned many economists and gained policymakers ’ attention is that the size distribution of firms in developing countries has a long tail .
worse , this process has not yet registered seriously on the multilateral policy agenda .
all of this intu itively makes sense , and there is a growing body of scientific evidence to back it up .
the famous br und t land commission report of 1987 defined sustainable development as “ ... development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs . ”
with this in mind , i propose a situ ational perspective for hero ism , just as i do for evil : the same situation that can infl ame the hostile imagination and evil in some of us can inspire the heroic imagination in others .
burma ’ s strategic importance reflects , first and foremost , its geographic location between india , china , thailand , and southeast asia .
in the new economic world , many more occupations may follow the route of discarded local mus icians , resulting in wealth concentrations on a vastly greater scale than before .
uncertainties abound in other advanced economies as well .
the ancient greeks had schools of rhetoric to h one their skills for the assembly .
the story occupied the same amount of space as a report on z hu kov ’ s visit to yugoslavia , and ran in a less prestigious position .
it has taken many of the former colonies decades to overcome this legacy .
this pattern was evident in yugoslavia 's wars of the 1990 's , where ethnic communities that had lived together more or less peacefully became en mes hed in civil war in the midst of a deep economic crisis .
moreover , like many other countries around the world , mauritius worries today about imported food and energy inflation .
in germany , extensive reports on violent attacks against prominent politicians by two people suffering from sch iz oph ren ia in 1990 bolstered the german public ’ s belief that mentally ill people are dangerous .
it is a test of wil ls and it will be won or lost in the court of global public opinion .
but the new president k icked over the narcotics be e h ive with neither a fum ig ator nor protective ne tting on hand .
whether the arab and wider islamic world ’ s democratic awakening will actually prevail or produce only change at the top of authoritarian regimes , whether it will lead to a stable order or sustained chaos and radicalization , still remains unclear .
if obama wants to make serious progress in this conflict , he will have to get the netanyahu government and hamas to negotiate .
hezbollah ’ s leader , hassan nas r allah , for the first time explicitly warned the israelis that a new round of conflict would no longer be confined to an israeli- lebanese showdown , but would involve the entire regional “ axis of confrontation ” – syria , iran , hezbollah , and hamas .
indeed , each side says that the other struck first .
with the exception of historical countries such as egypt or morocco , most arab states are artificial construc ts of european colonialism , which combined disparate tribes and ethn ic ities into un itary states that could be held together only by authoritarian rule and a common enemy – zionism and its western pat r ons .
their share of the vote in subsequent elections declined sharply .
such are my hopes and expectations for the l h c .
and the eurozone- wide rate of 20 . 8 % far exceeds the 8. 7 % ratio .
while the trauma is no longer acute , as it was in 2009 , wounds remain – and they are breeding new path ologies .
the second option , universal access , would require an unprecedented level of social assistance for the poor , and extraordinarily difficult decisions about what to subsidize .
but if they knew that hitler ’ s germany would get it , they might have approved franklin roosevelt ’ s decision to develop it before the nazis .
the chinese market for expensive watches is in steep decline .
it has become dangerously dependent on economic success , so that any large-scale economic failure will expose the sh allow ness of its moral claims .
and it is why research shows that pat enting genes actually reduces the production of new knowledge about genes : the most important input in the production of new knowledge is prior knowledge , to which patents inhibit access .
aside from his alleged involvement in ass or ted crimes , bo was said to be a ruthless apparat chi k , endowed with an outsize ego but no real talent .
a monetary policy at war with itself can not long endure .
moreover , we do not even know whether these numbers are unusually high when compared to pre-crisis trends .
finally , as gy our ko , may er , and sinai themselves note , even these small long-term differences in home price across cities have tended to be offset by lower rent- price ratios in the superstar cities .
more than a hundred followers of ay ad all awi , al sad r , and others have joined their ranks .
but what is europe ?
had merkel been less en am ored of austerity for europe ’ s debt- distressed countries , and had she managed to convince her domestic electorate of the need for a different approach , the eurozone crisis would have played out quite differently .
consider , for example , the european commission ’ s so-called “ services directive . ”
nato needed no external reasons to exist .
but , to facilitate this shift , appropriate financing vehicles must be developed ; investment and risk- management expertise will have to be acquired ; regulatory frameworks will have to be improved ; and adequate data and investment benchmarks will be needed .
this analysis , while seemingly plausible , depends on the belief that it is the supply of credit that is essential to economic health : too much money ruins it , while too little destroys it .
paris – a few days ago , turkey ’ s prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan told al jazeera , the pan- arab television network , that he would use his war ships to prevent israeli comman dos from again bo arding gaz a- bound ships , as they did last year .
under samuelson ’ s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but only on the assumption of rationality .
in the real world , we never know when the story is over .
then they realized that their holdings in liquid and low- return assets far exceed what is needed to avoid the type of speculative runs that east asia experienced in 1997 , and russia in 1998 .
a better understanding of the concept of open society requires that promoting freedom and democracy and promoting american values and interests be distinguished .
the local influ entials tend to be in positions that they got through their local popularity : street commissioner , mayor , or tow n ship board member .
behind the scenes , the asian powers can help to defuse the crises in darfur , north korea , myanmar , and elsewhere . and they will be crucial to forging new cooperative approaches to climate change , water scarcity , and the like .
all of these phenomena form a part of the dark side of the globalized world : contamination , contagion , instability , inter connection , turbulence , shared fragility , universal effects , and over exposure .
one of the strengths of the imf ’ s present governance structure , the constituency system , should be dupl icated at the g20 as well , so as to ensure inclusiveness .
moreover , the organization and methods of the iraq insurgency , while not unique , differ from those seen in the late twentieth century .
some of the ghosts of the 1930 ’ s have returned , too – in particular , the fear of unfair trade advantages caused by competitive devaluation .
a continent once afflicted by military take over s has slowly but surely impl an ted stable democracies .
but , in all likelihood , after years of steadily revising up its estimates of trend global growth , the international monetary fund will start revising them down .
but today the two processes are taking place simultaneously and at an accelerating pace .
constructing such a balanced state system for itself on a regional scale has been postwar europe ’ s great achievement .
india , for example , is becoming less dependent on aid , and eventually will not need it .
the way to deal with uncertainty and complex situations is to think clearly and act decisively , not cut deals that place ukraine ’ s future in the hands of shad ow y businesses .
instead of proposing reforms to the electorate and then implementing them on the strength of a clear democratic mandate , the few serious reforms in the past 20 years have been presented as being externally imposed – mainly to comply with european union requirements .
international negotiations with iran over its nuclear program also need a new concept and broader agenda .
when federal reserve chairman arthur bur ns objected on the grounds that other countries might retaliate , con n ol ly replied , “ let ‘ em .
the non- crisis of the euro
then there are cases of str id ency or severe irr itation .
there , credit tightening does not follow from determined action by an independent central bank ; rather , it reflects an important shift in the basic thrust of the state ’ s economic policies .
demonstration of military success in “ protecting ” the regime may indeed be designed to strengthen the 2 8- year-old general ’ s claim to power .
ban can not simply reform the security council to reflect better the realities of this era .
but what about africa , the forgotten continent that has been conspicuously absent from obama ’ s hec tic agenda ?
in a new book , confront and conceal , david s anger describes what he calls an “ obama doctrine ” ( though he fa ults the president for not communicating it more clearly ) : a ligh ter military footprint , combined with a willingness to use force unilaterally when american security interests are directly involved ; reliance on coalitions to deal with global problems that do not directly threaten us security ; and “ a rebalancing away from the middle east qu ag mi res toward the continent of greatest promise in the future – asia . ”
as a result , obama will have no choice but to devote the lion ’ s share of his time and attention to reviving the economy .
moreover , the currency depreciation in the wake of the bank of japan ’ s efforts to increase the annual inflation rate to 2 % is expected to benefit exporters , though a substantial effect on the trade balance is yet to be seen , probably owing to higher import costs .
but mounting environmental challenges , and the limited availability of commodity substitutes , suggest that a repr ieve on commodity prices is not near .
indeed , isis has allegedly already sol ic ited bitcoin donations .
think of the productivity cost of millions like him having to adjust to a new system .
either way , the seoul g-20 summit will likely mark a watershed in the history of the post-war global political economy .
to tackle insufficient supply from the dead , we first embraced an increasingly inclusive , and at any rate flexible , definition of death .
indeed , their social and human development indicators are worse than in sub-saharan africa .
europe and america were slow to enact legislation barring their companies from br ibing foreign government officials in return for mining concessions or other advantages , and there has been limited enforcement of the rules .
perhaps a time bomb has been planted under the thr ones of arab pot ent ates - kings , em irs and presidents .
furthermore , pri ons lack their own genes .
her supporters are responding to a potent set of symbols , and her detractors to an even more potent set of facts .
it is not easy to do this when the rich get richer – enjoying their biggest spree since the ro aring twenti es – and average household income remains stagnant for the third decade running .
what is agreed is the need for randomized controlled trials of the long-term effects of repeated use of parac et am ol in children .
to maintain their influence , it seems , they believe that they need to create an image of america as russia ’ s impl ac able enemy , which , by extending nato membership to ex- communist countries , is bringing an existential threat right to the country ’ s door step .
it is compatible with three consecutive quarters of zero growth in 2008 .
indeed , within a few years , individuals would possess in a small machine as much computing power as the main frame ibm 3 60 ’ s that had revolutionized centralized computing in the 1960 ’ s .
given the neu tered debates in russia , and the kremlin ’ s ability to manipulate elections , regime change is the only option left for those who want to preserve the democratic idea in russia .
countries might end up energy- independent , only to become ste el- dependent or petro chemical- dependent .
given that tumors take several months to grow , bio compatible systems had to be developed that could release proteins and other large- molec ul ar- weight substances slowly and continuously in the body – something that scientists were convinced was impossible .
in august 2007 , some german banks , at the earliest signs of difficulty because of their exposure to us sub-prime mortgages , started to talk only of 1931 .
without doubt , those willing to strike – either alone or in a coalition – have a range of options , ranging from naval and air block ades to targeted ra ids , sabotage inside the country , and massive attack from without .
again , the reason is simple : countries do not want to compromise their sovereignty or tie their hands in any way .
changes in education levels , uni onization , and productivity are part of the explanation for this instability .
we expect 6- 7 billion pes os in savings by the end of this year , which can be used for other high- priority development projects .
darwin believed that pres ent- day organisms are descendants of much simpler ancestors : they are the products of un broken lines of her ed ity that stretch back to the origin of life .
they were supported by the twentieth century ’ s two most influential economists , friedrich von hayek and john maynard keynes .
because a risky asset has been removed and replaced with safe central-bank reserves , investors ’ un met risk appetite will grow , the price of all risky assets ( including remaining priv at el y- held long-term treasury bonds ) will rise , and bond yields will fall .
so , is the crisis really over ?
as a national leader , thatcher ’ s principal achievements were to reverse britain ’ s decline , which had gained momentum in the 1970 ’ s , before her first term as prime minister in 1979 .
china ’ s political rivalries do not play out in telev ised national debates ; rather , they play out in the shadows , leaving the public to guess what the country ’ s leadership has in store .
if one lesson of history is the danger of globalization running am ok , another is the mal le ability of capitalism .
he says that if ros cos mos ’ s management decided to act , it would work with experts from europe , the united states , china , and other space powers to decide how best to proceed .
those who do not manage to get to other countries , or who fail in the countries to which they have migrated , are in a qu and ary .
history will record that the match bou az iz i lit on december 17 , 2010 , became the for tu itous spark that ign ited an arab pr air ie fire .
guns also have a different place in the european mind ; it is their absence that most europeans regard as important .
but the remaining challenge of rebalancing demand ( in both quantitative and qual itative terms ) remains a major one .
furthermore , robo tic surgery has the potential to progress beyond the scope of un aided human capability .
reliance on a self- promoting tyco on like thaksin is not the best way to boost democracy , but nor is reliance on military coups and kingly intervention .
by using high- yield seeds , better soil management , and proper row planting , the community has more than tripled its crop production , and villagers who previously were hungry grain buyers are now food- secure grain sellers .
simply put , khamenei will not tolerate any dimin ution of his power , and he is determined to avoid the type of friction that has characterized his relationships with previous presidents , particularly ahmadinejad .
but surely the particular nature of mos ley ’ s private fantasies is irrelevant to the case .
the problem is not that governments are unsure about what to do . the standard check list of what to do in a financial crisis to avoid a deep and prolonged depression has been gradually worked out over two centuries : by bank of england governor cor n eli us bul ler in 18 25 ; by the victor ian- era editor of the economist , wal ter bag e hot ; and by the economists ir ving fish er , john maynard keynes , milton friedman , among many others .
moreover , the united nations commission of experts on reforms of the international monetary and financial system , investigating the causes of the great recession , and the international monetary fund have both warned that inequality leads to economic instability .
it is this type of profoundly positive influence on prospects for shared prosperity and inclusive growth that currently elu des national governments .
more recently , during the refugee crisis , orbán announced the end of the era of what he called “ liberal bl ah bl ah ” and predicted that europe would come around to his “ christian and national ” vision of politics .
japan and korea have announced similar plans .
london – until the people of the united kingdom voted to leave the european union , the refugee crisis was the greatest problem europe faced .
solzhenitsyn , one of the most famous and heroic dissidents of the soviet era , now seems certain to become a tow ering figure in the icon o graphy of put inism .
for one thing , all economic reasoning is contex tual , with as many conclusions as potential real-world circumstances .
not all countries are given such a long to- do list , but , since new eu legislation was adopted in 2010 , specific recommendations are addressed to all .
but let us leave such questions aside for the moment .
in the weeks since france and the netherlands rejected the european union ’ s proposed constitutional treaty , the eu ’ s leaders have been busy pointing fingers at each other or blaming french and dutch citizens for misunderstanding the question they were asked .
but an increasing number of women and girls from burma have begun to tell of their experiences of rape and other forms of sexual violence in the country ’ s war- torn areas .
that claim is difficult to deny , at least if by “ human ” we mean “ member of the species homo sap i ens . ”
they thus ignore the other dimensions of power , including both hard military power and the soft power of narrative , not to mention the policy difficulties of combining them into successful strategies .
the real route to democracy at the imf
the growing understanding of trans generational epigene tic modi fications , whether nutritional or neuro logical , has opened new perspectives on the plas tic ity of the ph en o type ( an organism ’ s observ able characteristics ) , and the factors that might affect it .
nor does it mention the fr at ric idal political movements from the great leap forward to the cultural revolution .
doing nothing but talking , which is europe ’ s current model of inaction , is the worst possible course .
the eu- japan negotiations could be li the in comparison .
may has repeatedly stated that there can be no going back on the vote to leave , even though scotland and northern ireland voted to stay .
if britain insists on pursuing a pur ist definition of sovereignty , it will find only gr ief and isolation .
better still , the end of brexit uncertainty would result in an economic rebound , almost certainly guaranteeing a conservative victory in 2022 .
the incomplete victory over britain ran k led in the predominantly catholic republic of ireland ; until 1999 , the irish constitution included a commitment to the “ re integration ” of the whole island .
the key take away is that the timing of elections can reveal how well incumbents expect to perform in the future .
the eu , however , has insisted that during the transition period all of the current obligations of eu membership must continue , including budget contributions , free movement of labor , and enforcement of eu legal judgments .
the resisted rise of se gol ene royal
and , by picking territorial fights with its neighbors and pursuing a muscular foreign policy , china ’ s leaders are compelling other asian states to work more closely with the us and each other .
new york – good news not only sells less well than bad news , but also often seems harder to believe .
the greater the number of countries that have the power to block or veto international initiatives , the more difficult multilateralism becomes – and the less motivated dominant countries are to cooperate .
it is difficult and time- consuming to build mature democracies .
as he put it , “ the wealth of a country consists , not in its gold and silver only , but in its lands , houses , and consum able goods of all different kinds . ”
whatever his personal beliefs , if peña nieto wins , he will be the pri ’ s first-ever democratically elected president – the first to become head of state because he won more votes at the polls , not because his predecessor hand- picked him .
this reminded many observers of what the america ’ s republican party tried to do in order to demonstrate its “ pro- life commitments ” during george w. bush ’ s presidency .
tunisia has been independent for 55 years , and côte d ’ ivoire for 51 years , yet france is once more playing a decisive role in these countries .
most young journalists , especially those in radio , have been shocked by the censorship .
stockholm – russian prime minister vladimir putin recently announced that russia , belarus , and kazakhstan have abandoned their separate talks to join the world trade organization .
the policies and positions articulated by the new government suggest not so much the once va unted third way ( a slogan for the age of prosperity ) as a carefully calibrated middle way .
moreover , according to the so on- to- be - published at las of economic complexity , these economies began producing more complex products , a harbinger of sustainable growth .
no one should be surprised about this .
the socialist party in chile , the workers party in brazil , the broad front in uruguay , even chávez in venezuela and the pr d and f sl n in mexico and nicaragua , respectively , have shown that , after years of waiting , the left can win elections in latin america .
refusing to prioritize , dealing mainly with the most publicized problems , is wrong .
countries like hungary and poland can hardly be accused of having a hidden agenda when they share their development experience .
needless to say , reaching a consensus among such a diverse group of people from around the world was not easy .
of course , the parallels end at some point , because batteries and engines aren ’ t quite the equivalent of p cs , but the ethos is much the same .
moreover , capital flows , upon which georgia is highly dependent , have been interrupted since the conflict started .
enter x dr-tb .
by 2020 , china ’ s e- tail market could be as large as today ’ s markets in the us , japan , the united kingdom , germany , and france combined .
none of these new services can easily be standardized , or dealt with at long distances ( as can some types of clerical legal and financial work ) .
the east asian tigers that pushed themselves onto the world economy ’ s center stage were small units , and in some cases – singapore , taiwan , or hong kong – were not even treated as states .
it is hyperbol e when activists call such movements `` the world 's other superpower , '' yet governments ignore them at their peril .
the rising wealth of nations
they have involved huge financial risks for eurozone members .
indeed , the remaining carbon- emissions “ budget ” until 2050 , adherence to which is required to limit the global temperature increase to 2°c , is five times smaller than the carbon equivalent of proven fossil-fuel reserves .
standard growth theory predicts “ convergence ” of per capita gdp : a fast-growing country will eventually encounter difficulty maintaining high rates of labor mobilization , capital accumulation , and technological progress .
but a broad framework for determining the timing of each policy step , based on rigorous cost-benefit analysis , is essential .
however , this year ’ s planned drilling of three wells in the ch uk chi sea and two in the beau fort sea was first reduced to one well and then postponed until next year after a containment d ome – an emergency device for stopping a blow out – was damaged .
the us also faces political constraints to fiscal consolidation : americans are delu ding themselves that they can enjoy european- style social spending while maintaining low tax rates , as under president ronald reagan .
now , however , the region ’ s political inertia has been disrupted . cairo ’ s tahrir square has become a symbol for both hope and “ people power . ”
indeed , support for rural infrastructure – including last- mile roads , electrification , post- harvest facilities , support for agricultural associations and cooperatives , and access to land and irrigation facilities – is a crucial element in the value chain .
by hin ting strongly that its $ 1.5 billion in largely military aid would be with held in the event of unacceptable levels of repression , the us revealed that the post- mubarak era is already being contemplated .
it is not as if there was a shortage of needs ; it is only that those who might meet those needs have a shortage of funds .
over subscr ibed by 24 times , the issue will allow zamb ia to borrow more cheaply than many european countries can .
striking this balance is made even more complicated by the influence of advanced-country policies on emerging economies .
effective dem ob il ization and reconciliation in el salvador , for example , ensured the consolidation of peace after that country ’ s brutal civil war of the 1980 ’ s .
the kremlin thinks that now is the time to buy assets cheaply , using the current financial crisis to emerge as a powerful global economic player .
perhaps no country outside of syria has shown greater concern about the crisis .
he proved that some gases absorb radi ant heat ( today we would say long- wave radiation ) .
fear creates a demand for state action .
although the financial disaster erupted on george w. bush ’ s watch , after eight years of a republican presidency , obama had to carry the burden of an anemic recovery .
on average , alumni make up 63 % of the boards of the top 100 us universities , both public and private .
the lending of the international institutions might also be used for buying back discounted debt .
new york — as pakistan atro ph ies in its existential crisis , a fundamental question about the nature of the country is coming to the fore : are the country ’ s citizens pakistanis who happen to be muslims , or are they muslims who happen to be pakistanis ?
high prices for commodities today mean more supply for future generations , while at the same time creating an incentive to develop new ways to con serve on consumption .
new york – in the 1992 united states presidential election , george h. w. bush ’ s campaign made a political spl ash by going after the television show mur ph y brown – one of the first times , but far from the last , that a fic ti tious character was introduced to score political points in america .
to all appearances the act of a pur itan fan atic , the authorities suspected ber ch et of being a part of an organized pur itan conspiracy .
it is to this state of affairs that the french and dutch said “ no ” two months ago .
exceptions become the rule
the commission even reached consensus on a number of concrete measures to help put a `` human face '' on globalization - or at least mitigate some of its worst effects .
this is the first new tool that i have come across whose creators seem to understand that the problem is not simply to find the right people ; it is to run the right process to succeed at a specific task with the help of those people .
postponing structural reforms eventually constr ains any economy ’ s performance , as we saw in japan in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s .
moreover , china dispat ched a war ship and four military aircraft to the mediterranean to help evac uate 3 5 , 8 60 chinese nationals and 2, 100 others from libya .
even the 2001 recession – mostly triggered by the bursting high-tech bubble – was accompanied by a doubling of oil prices , following the start of the second palestinian intifada against israel .
but this is a synchron ous global downturn .
as a fertili zed egg turns into an embry o , and then a fet us , those initial stem cells somehow show their daughter cells how to become skin , liver , eye , or bone .
both were reluctant to lower interest rates markedly . indeed , financial markets may have taken the fed ’ s view on us inflation as representative of other central banks ’ outlook on inflation , reinforced by the surprising ecb decision of october 2 to keep interest rates on hold .
· third , the international community is obliged to deliver on its commitment to increase aid .
it is our only hope .
this year , the concentration of atmospheric co2 crossed the 400 pp m line for the first time .
as is the case in any country ’ s leadership transition , no one knows for certain whether china ’ s incoming administration is up to the multipl icity of challenges that they face .
since prot ons are the simplest nucle i , it was hoped that , at high energy , the forces acting during the scat tering of prot ons could be observed and analyzed like in a slow- motion film , providing a precise understanding of the strong force .
if syria could break free of the negative influences of regional politics , genuine change without continued violence might become possible .
moreover . there will always be groups with their own interests , using arguments that we do not have sufficient evidence to act .
if , on the other hand , castro did not attend , some of the al ba members , including two neighbors with which colombia hopes to improve relations – ecuador and venezuela – might not show up , either .
music and sporting events , along with town gather ings , have also been canceled or postponed .
if sustainability is to triumph , it must be predominantly a bottom-up process .
by equ ating the murder er and the victim , we wash our hands .
they didn ’ t claim that what he said was inaccurate , or shortsighted , or analy tically un sound .
although america and the west may have felt as if jihadist terrorism was declining in its fer ocity , in afghanistan , pakistan , and india , no such feeling of false security ever took hold .
the alternative is to seek a cooperative resolution , consistent with the benign interpretation of “ forced willing n ess . ” this can be achieved by adopting some features of the model used in eastern europe , known as the “ vienna initiative . ”
this episode , along with two clim b downs by pakistan ’ s government after public attempts to curb the isi had been spur ned by the army , confirmed that the civilian government in islamabad is too weak to challenge the all-powerful military .
the threat of german am nes ia
everyone knows why .
subsequently , mainly during a period of center-right governance , several product markets were dereg ulated : telecommunications , electricity , road transport , tax is , and , to some extent , railways .
the economy is weak , but the bank of japan ( boj ) can not make monetary policy much more expansionary than it already is .
the view that li will tolerate slower growth only above a particular threshold is based on the belief that gdp growth below 8 % would hurt economic development more than it helped , and lead to social instability .
what these examples show is that domestic efforts trump everything else in determining a country ’ s economic fortunes .
failure would thus constitute a serious indictment of political leaders in major trading countries in both the developed and developing worlds , possibly costing the global economy $ 700 billion in additional annual income .
at a time when , in france as in the rest of the world , the ch asm between the elite and ordinary people has never been so wide , when the smu g ness of the affluent has never been so cruel ly felt by the less fortunate , z id ane , a son of desp ised immigrants , became an international star , and yet preserved the simplicity of his origins .
labor costs in the us industrial sector are currently 25 % lower than the european average .
even after 2001 , there were only a few anti-muslim incidents .
he is not coming back . he is gone forever .
it is the flow of credit that is important , and the reason that the failure of banks during the great depression was important is that they were involved in determining creditworthiness ; they were the re pos it ories of information necessary for the maintenance of the flow of credit .
europeans may want a more “ normal ” america , closer to their own values , but they simultaneously worry that a more modest america would demand more of them in the realm of “ hard ” military power .
the trouble with japanese nationalism
that is the patern alistic part .
measuring the costs of “ too big to fail ”
the truth about climate change
an alliance like nato , in contrast to many “ coalitions of the willing , ” has the political consultation structures , proven planning mechanisms , effective command and control , and legitimacy that encourages nations to contribute to an operation . alliance solidarity is not just a slogan .
given the limited number of skilled personnel available to humanitarian agencies , human resources could follow the money .
and that ’ s the main reason any power-sharing deal with former prime minister ben az ir bhutto is unlikely to end pakistan ’ s political turmoil .
he worked to strengthen and modernize russia ’ s armed forces while avoiding armed conflict .
in preparation for the renegotiation , uk leaders are conducting a comprehensive audit of eu laws in order to identify powers that could be re claimed .
prime minister shinzo abe ’ s new government has embraced a revolutionary ( rather than evolutionary ) economic-policy approach that engages several initiatives , some of which were once deemed implausible , unthinkable , or even undesirable .
nevertheless , the unemployment rate for those with degrees is one-third the unemployment rate for those without a high school diplom a .
washington , dc – when economists discuss “ fiscal adjustment , ” they typically frame it as an abstract and complex goal .
russian troops crushed georgia ’ s army on the ground , but they also delivered a strong blow against the logic of further nato expansion , which , if not stopped , would have inevitably incited a major war in the heart of europe .
strong opposition on the part of the bundesbank and many german academics , however , has raised questions about whether and how it could ever be used .
this march of so-called progress resulting in the loss of forests was documented by john per lin in his 1989 book a forest journey .
on the palestinian side , consolidation of the palestinian authority ’ s control over a dozen security services and militias would be an important step .
don ’ t go there in the first place : avoid whatever it is – whether external pressure under the gold standard , asset-price bubbles , or lever age- and- panic cycles such as that of 2003- 2009 – that creates the desire to deleverage .
“ well , i ’ d say that if he is driving a taxi , he ’ s a tax i- driver , ” replied the 1995 nobel laureate .
the implication is that they need grants , not loans .
pakistan ’ s homegrown terrorist groups know that the country is at a tipping point , and are attacking candidates and voters who favor a secular state .
as i take my morning st rol ls through bang al ore , though , i sense growing resentment of the in adequ acies , and frustration at insufficient improvements in citizens ’ quality of life .
private savings , as a rule , can pay the costs of treatment only for the thr if ty and the well- off .
the regime ’ s nuclear test in february – its third since 2006 – was likely a min i at ur ized device , which makes the situation even more worrying , given that successful min i at ur ization is critical for using nuclear weapons in ballistic missiles .
to them , one can only assume , the debates are nothing more than a personality contest .
meanwhile , in the united states , catholic b ish ops have claimed that president barack obama is violating their religious freedom by requiring all big employers , including catholic hospitals and universities , to offer their employees health insurance that covers contraception .
today , too , it is not america ’ s military strength that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of “ the american dream . ”
in the past , a nomination was officially announced before the nominee moved on to the next phase and met with senators to discuss the appointment .
he thought that it was important to confront the fact of our insignificant place in the universe , because he did not want us to live under the illusory comfort of a belief that somehow the world had been created for our sake , and that we are under the benevolent care of an all-powerful cre ator .
in fact , clinical trials are not intended to demonstrate the effectiveness of a treatment ( drug , medical device , or other intervention ) in a completely random sample from the general population . rather , researchers “ enrich ” the study population by using a characteristic , such as age or labor ator y- test results , to select a sub set of patients in whom the intervention ’ s effects will likely be easier to detect than they would be in an un fil tered population .
ar on preferred demon izing fellow intellectuals as alarm ists than conc eding that the cold war might event uate in a nuclear holocaust .
but we would also expect to see manufacturing plants running at double shifts – the money not spent on construction has to go somewhere , and , remember , the problem is not a lack of aggregate demand .
it is time to understand the new , emerging model of conflict .
people will starve to death in the interim , but the budget will be balanced .
the loss of parents and family resources has boosted child labor , hom elessness , and in clin ations towards violence and rebellion .
the water hegemon
potentially catastrophic consequences await , not just for polar bears , but for millions of people .
weak financial systems in emerging markets are a major obstacle to balanced development .
such contradictions reflect significant measurement discrep ancies , which , in india ’ s case , could be on the order of hundreds of millions of people .
morsi ’ s muslim brotherhood was unable to shift from being an opposition movement to being a governing party .
but it is our job .
this mismanagement should dis qualify any eurozone policy maker from the imf ’ s managing direc tor ship , and yet christine lagarde , french finance minister , was named to succeed her comp atri ot dominique straus s- kahn after his resignation .
the strategy was poised for implementation when the bank ’ s leadership crisis struck .
but such success stories have not deterred the project ’ s critics .
initially , i supported france , because i like ch else a ’ s nicolas an el ka , though as an african woman i also could not resist the dream of chan ting with joy those times when an african team won .
the world ’ s biggest shock absor ber
oil exporters and china have been accounting for two-thirds of global oil demand growth in recent years .
left to their own devices , these multi- speed dynamics would translate into higher global growth overall , coupled with larger internal and cross- country disparities – often exacerbated by demographics .
voters would thus play a more direct role in choosing a new european chief executive .
worse still , over the long run , the tax burden would shift .
bush is similarly mistaken .
but even during the most ruthless phases of western capitalism , civil society in europe and the us was made up of a huge network of organizations independent of the state – churches , clubs , parties , societies , and associations that were available to all social classes .
thus , the north korean drama , now star ring kim jong-un , plays on , relying on ex tor ted proceeds from manufactured crises abroad to finance spectacular kit sch and brutal repression at home .
as we can see in one country after another , the old order won ’ t give up without a fight .
in the us ( and the united kingdom ) , the general government deficit today is still around 8 % of gdp , compared to a little more than 3 % of gdp in the eurozone , and the us debt/gdp ratio has increased by more than 41 percentage points , compared to “ only ” 25 points in the eurozone .
indeed , estimates for germany show that for most of its industrial base , energy costs account for a mere 1.6 % of gross value added .
the us in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s reduced spending by 5 % of gdp and balanced its budget while growing strongly .
when oil prices plunge by 10 % daily , this is obviously disruptive in the short term : credit spreads in resources and related sectors explode , and leveraged investors are forced into asset fire sales to meet margin calls .
unfortunately , several countries are taking this path , with undocumented immigrants and muslims being the first targets .
on other issues – notably immigration – obama rejects claims of states ’ rights and insists on federal authority .
cambridge – scientific knowledge and technological innovation , as y u v al no ah har ari emphasizes in his book sap i ens : a brief history of humankind , are among the key drivers of economic progress .
and many top members of trump ’ s team – including his first campaign manager , paul manafort ; rec ent ly- ousted national security adviser michael flynn ; former exxonmobil ceo and now secretary of state rex tillerson ; and hed ge- fund magn ate and commerce secretary wil bur  ross – all have significant business dealings with russia or russian oligarchs .
but income growth and demographics do not explain everything .
the reaction of the chinese authorities to the tibetan protests evo kes echoes of the totalitarian practices that many of us remember from the days before communism in central and eastern europe collapsed in 1989 : harsh censorship of the domestic media , black outs of reporting by foreign media from china , refusal of visas to foreign journalists , and blaming the unrest on the “ dalai lama ’ s conspir atorial c liqu e ” and other un specified dark forces supposedly manipulated from abroad .
if one firm gets into trouble , it will not bring down the system .
tillerson is right to dis card the notion of maintaining strategic patience toward a country committed to developing nuclear weapons and the means to deploy them .
traditionally a mexican , central american , and caribbean matter , it has now reached brazil , colombia , venezuela , ecuador , and beyond .
under these circumstances , reliance on austerity to free up internal resources to service the debt cho kes off economic growth .
yet the existence of such a treaty could serve as a constant reminder of what is expected of them .
it seemed to me that , yes , our modern sophisticated financial systems had created enormous macroeconomic risks .
the capital backing the banks ’ assets was only $ 1.4 trillion last fall , leaving the us banking system some $ 400 billion in the hole , or close to zero even after the government and private-sector recapitalization of such banks .
global corporations are enormous , and their influence affects almost every aspect of our lives .
sound transactions would be taxed along with destabilizing , overnight financing of fragile financial institutions .
many people nowadays spend more of their lives watching television than they do in classrooms .
today ’ s counter- enlightenment
even with the most robust types of research – for example , randomized clinical trials – one of four of these results had already been found to be wrong or potentially exaggerated within a few years after publication .
other groups may not advocate violence ( though sometimes they do ) but still pre ach a view of the world that is dangerous and hostile to those who disagree .
it struck me how different the mood is now .
“ blair said : ‘ going is the most difficult thing to do in politics .
how can you have a viable state car ved up by fences , military roads , and bar bed wire ?
the term “ too big to fail ” dates back several decades , but it entered wide usage in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 .
and yet america ’ s top law-enforcement officials have consistently – and now completely – backed off .
government savings have fallen , especially in the united states and japan , and household savings have virtually disappeared in some countries with housing booms .
its index of influence ass esses the number of c itations for each author , weighted by impact and discounted by c itation age ( otherwise , adam smith and karl marx would likely still top the list ) .
this was always true in the so-called developing ( and often relatively poor ) world .
the way this issue plays out will determine whether peace continues to prevail across the pacific .
it is crucial to ensure that our european model , with its emphasis on a fair deal for everyone , remains competitive .
as long as banks are permitted to operate this way , the banks ’ supervisors are betting on the banks ’ ability to earn their way out of their current problems – even if the value of their assets doesn ’ t now significantly exceed their liabilities .
but the politics of trade liberalization – that is , the way in which countries proceed to accept free trade – is much more complex , largely because of those particular groups it hurts .
japan ’ s ran chers do need time to adjust .
in 2005 , only 15 house democrats voted for the central american free trade agreement , precisely because its terms on labor standards and the environment were so weak .
but most economists agree that such incentives must be balanced against the need to accelerate knowledge dissem ination and absorption , and that the optim um is somewhere in the middle .
as the british economist david ricardo demonstrated two centuries ago , it can even be better for a country to import goods that it can produce more cheaply , if doing so enables the production of other goods that are still cheaper to produce .
but no technology can overcome some governments ’ lack of political will to hold other governments to account .
for example , the new us- mexico agreement requires that 40- 45 % of a car be made by workers earning at least $ 16 per hour .
as a result , the total eurozone trade surplus is now massive .
for example the undervalued renminbi was successfully addressed in bilateral china- us discussions from 2004 to 2011 .
does the new government still consider this a priority ?
the trump administration has invoked some of these consequences as justi fications for its trade war .
even if one-fifth of these benefits were eroded by the costs of redistribution , this would still amount to $ 9 trillion in benefits to humanity .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships .
since the existing software can easily serve many more millions of users , they just need to translate their inter face into the local language , meaning that entering a new market mostly means more profits .
for example , china can import soybeans from brazil instead of the us , at little additional cost .
indeed , poor countries ' development would arguably have been set back if they had acquies ced in some of the demands .
the us position was truly breathtaking , given that the wto had already judged that america ’ s cotton subsidies – paid to fewer than 25,000 rich farmers – were illegal .
brown ’ s fate has far-reaching effects for both germany and france , because it is seen as the writing on the wall .
transforming science education
economic research clearly shows the argument that such intellectual property rights promote research to be weak at best .
as lev in recently argued in a detailed and persuasive speech , the us should be having a full and open debate about these dimensions of the tpp deal .
krugman said that the “ ir responsibility and im morality ” of the representatives ’ democratic view points were “ un forgiv able ” and a “ betrayal . ”
it must take real steps to align authority and accountability at the eu level , empowering the european parliament and delivering political legitimacy , as well as more responsibility , to the commission .
today , more than ever , the forum ’ s proud motto , “ committed to the improvement of the world , ” seems disconnected from reality .
the third consideration is an extension of the second : the increasing commodi fication and marke tization of higher education in recent decades .
according to neo- classical economists , the answer is a resounding “ yes , ” and , in many cases , they can point to substantial evidence to valid ate their claim .
cambridge – there is a certain irony in recent news that venezuela donated a half-million dollars to donald trump ’ s presidential inauguration through pe tr ó le os de venezuela ( pd v sa ) , the state-owned oil company .
at the end of the day , the government will always be able to control the rules .
finally , trump will nom inate conservative justices for the supreme court , which has had one vac ancy since justice anton in scal ia died in february .
and the policies that trump ’ s republican party has proposed – for health care , taxes , and deregulation – will not make much difference .
in her long , distinguished career , riv lin and others like her have provided us with a rational policymaking process – if we can keep it .
the most obvious example is climate change .
the israel-palestine conflict , the competition between saudi arabia and iran , and the sunni-shia relationship all require mutual accommodation .
if i can get you to want to do what i want , then i do not have to force you to do what you do not want .
some 4,000 positions must be filled .
i also developed what i called the adjusted g s de er , which correc ts the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors such as the real interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone .
but it is us president donald trump ’ s recent pardon of ar pa io that currently is spurring heated debate , as it raises fundamental questions about the presidential pardon power that has been a part of us policymaking from the country ’ s birth .
but australia will be anything but comfortable if the larger regional dynamics go off the ra ils .
chinese officials , for their part , have indicated that they will announce new agreements and consider opening parts of the chinese market that are now closed to outsiders .
it is not visible , but it is absolutely essential to keep the mechanism functioning .
at the end of an event ful week , he set off a new fi restor m , by speaking of his sympathy for porter , and suggesting that women who make such complaints aren ’ t necessarily to be believed .
but , trumpe d-up or not , tax cuts can be very good for business confidence .
leading republicans have already diss ented from trump ’ s threats to start trade wars .
and now it can even claim a kind of moral high ground .
the system not only produced unfair results , but seemed rigged to do so .
yes , donald , jr. and his brother , eric , will remain in new york to run the trump organization , which over sees their father ’ s diverse businesses ; but trump ’ s claim that his sons will remain at arm ’ s length strains cred ul ity .
for starters , the chinese view their policies on technology as a necessary response to rising labor costs at home , and as a hedge against us restrictions on high-tech exports to china .
today , as china ’ s power grows , will it help provide global public goods ?
blin ded by the grati fication phase of codependency , both the us and china lost their way .
the us isn ’ t a dictatorship , and diplomacy isn ’ t real estate .
caught up in the bluster of the us accusations being leveled at china , little attention is being paid to the potential consequences of chinese retaliation .
beijing – last month , us president donald trump enacted steel and aluminum tariffs aimed squarely at china .
these are fair criticisms .
climate change poses an existential threat to the planet that is no less dire than that posed by north korea ’ s nuclear ambitions .
the democrats must net at least 30 house seats and four senate seats to re take control of each chamber , respectively .
so far , the system has held .
har le y- dav id son is only responding as any company accountable to its investors would .
for example , if china chooses to resist trump ’ s demands for concessions on trade , the us could prohibit the renminbi ’ s use in invo icing or settlements by us businesses trans acting with chinese partners .
and while it is fair to argue that much of what iran is doing in the region is a legitimate cause for concern , it is not grounds for re introducing sanctions under the accord .
given this , rather than par ting ways with the other parties that helped to negotiate the agreement , the us should be seeking a consensus on what would constitute an iranian breakout , in order to help guide the inspections conducted by the international atomic energy agency .
that may benefit some ; but it will do little good for the overwhelming majority of american workers or the economy as a whole .
but what about job creation ?
he certainly can ’ t sustain it for long .
after all , according to the international monetary fund , the dollar was already about 10- 20 % overvalued in june .
likewise , let us suppose that trump will carry through on his budget promises .
and yet the imf is again forecasting that global gdp growth will significantly improve over the next two years , and that world trade growth will double .
both the democratic and republican parties are practitioners of populism , american- style : they repeatedly cut taxes , increase the public debt ( which doubled from 35 % of gdp in 2007 to 74 % of gdp at the end of 2015 ) , and generally blame somebody else for the slow us growth that arises from low saving and investment rates .
a pew research opinion poll conducted between november 30 and december 5 , after the election had cast the usual victor ’ s g low on donald trump , indicated that only 37 % of americans thought trump was well- qualified for the presidency , just 31 % deemed him moral , and a mere 26 % viewed him as a good role model .
yet the deal will cost taxpayers $ 7 million , and still allow carrier to out source 1, 300 jobs to mexico .
for example , trump can not fulfill his campaign promise immediately to tr ash the paris climate agreement – an international deal that all signatories are legally bound to respect for at least four years .
madrid – the ann us horri bil is of 2016 is behind us now .
by contrast , trump advocates lower taxes for the wealthy , and seems willing to embrace some form of state capitalism – if not crony capitalism – via protectionist policies and special incentives for companies to manufacture in the us .
s owing doubt about the deal ’ s importance or the scientific evidence backing it up would be a ru inous error .
when nixon adopted his own “ mad ” person a , he was in some ways drawing on the example of nikita khrushchev , my grandfather and nixon ’ s adversary during his tenure as us vice president .
he abandoned the 12- country trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) , and withdrew the united states from negotiations over the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the eu , which would have created a vast north atlantic common market .
every un member state signed the paris climate agreement in 2015 .
selling trump ’ s signature issue – protectionism – to the house republicans was not easy .
of course , trump may be able to change the fed board ’ s composition over time , by appointing new governors when stanley fischer , la el brain ard , daniel k . tar ul lo , and jer ome h. powell ’ s terms end .
anything written about the trump administration ’ s personnel and policies may be inval id before it is published .
senior officials at the bank of england , for example , have been comm end ably for thr ight about this – including at public s rac  meetings .
here in california , some are hyster ically calling for the entire state to become an immigration sanctuary ; there is even talk of secession .
they ’ re not : if trade negotiators don ’ t like their chinese counterparts ’ tone , they can ’ t simply go looking for a more reasonable or more eager partner who can open up china ’ s markets for us farmers .
all that is needed for a politics of institutionalized violence is for such people to be given official license to unleash their most brutal impulses .
all told , the us has alienated some of its closest allies , weakened the nato alliance , and become a bigo ted and xenophobic presence on the world stage .
but what would come next ?
what kind of a realist would not use a united western alliance to limit a russia that is trying to engineer a return to cold war spheres of influence ?
while many consumers in developed countries proclaim support for sustainability , they are generally not willing to pay for it or in convenience themselves .
but liberal democracy has out lasted its rivals in the past , and it will likely do so again .
the under valuation of the euro , by contrast , has two root causes .
but germany and china are profoundly different , and there is no consensus on whether either country can or will fill america ’ s shoes .
his administration is now threatening to apply extr at err it orial sanctions to stop other countries from making “ significant ” defense deals with russia , a leading arms exporter .
but china does not always live by what it pre aches as far as cooperation is concerned , as its unilateralism in the south china sea indicates .
the clear purpose of the pay offs was to keep the public from finding out about these affairs before the election .
i am an adviser to a group at mit that created a website , h tt p : / / fif t yn if ty . or g , designed to make it easy for americans to use their social network to mobilize calls to congress .
when it comes to trade , china of course immediately retali ated with its own tariffs on $ 50 billion of us imports , just as canada , the european union , and mexico are retali ating for us tariffs on steel and aluminum imports .
however , while china ’ s trade surplus with the us rapidly increased , the contribution of the east asian region to the us trade deficit declined .
in the future , those who remained on the right side of it will be gl ad they did .
moon , who was elected to boost jobs and curb corruption , campaigned on sweeping away his predecessor ’ s policies , including her hardline approach toward north korea .
don ’ t cry for corporate america
as far as i can figure out , the argument is that trump will mag ically make the trade deficit go away , and this , in turn , will mirac ul ously boost jobs .
the known unknow ns of us sanctions against iran
but the blame does not rest with the jcpoa , which was negotiated as a del im ited non-proliferation agreement .
this , together with a pledge to maintain welfare entitlements , amounts to a modern form of keynesian fiscal policy ( though of course not identified as such ) .
more important , american isolationism – based on a false belief that the us was safely protected by two oceans – allowed nazi germany and imperial japan to wage aggressive war and threaten the entire world .
in the israel-palestine conflict , the historical narratives are overwhelming , and the geography is small , so details can not be g los sed over .
the incendiary rhetoric of palestine ’ s supporters in the arab world has never done much for the palestinian people , either .
after the fighting was over , israel controlled all of the west bank , gaza , and jerusalem , in addition to the sinai peninsula and the golan heights .
if the us appears to be seeking regime change or a preemptive war , a panicked kim will be more likely to l ash out .
all told , north korea ’ s “ opening ” will most likely amount to much less than meets the eye .
at that time , china – pointing to its own experience with the us – proposed that the us and north korea each open a diplomatic office in the other ’ s capital .
but there could be a less un flat tering , though equally depressing , explanation .
things are not much better on the economic-policy front .
of course , sentiment can go in both directions .
in france , the far-right national front ’ s marine le pen will attempt to turn the upcoming presidential election into another anti-establishment upset .
in any case , trump seems to have no interest in bringing in experts .
he lik ens trade deficits to economic losses – almost to theft – and decla res china the enemy .
but none of this is supported by the evidence . even nafta skeptics have concluded that its negative effects on net us manufacturing employment have been small to non-existent .
the electoral process is essentially a zero-sum game for the participants .
but tillerson has dist anced himself from trump , and rumors are circulating in washington that he already wants out .
much of that disruption has come from america ’ s free-trade relationship with china , a very large country which has a far lower per capita income .
trump failed to heed that historical lesson , which suggests that , like bush , he doesn ’ t know what the mission is .
this week , house speaker paul ryan , here to fore a trump loy alist who had let some of his republican f lock take unprecedented actions to undermine mueller ’ s probe , sent tre mors through washington when he let it be known that he thought it unwise for a president to pardon himself .
russian president vladimir putin ’ s kle p tocr atic regime has sent troops into one former soviet republic , georgia ; invaded and occupied part of a second , ukraine ; and har assed and tried to intimidate three others – estonia , latvia , and lithuania ( all three of them nato members ) .
doing so will require patience , which is not trump ’ s strong suit .
at that point , iran would feel free to re deploy its proxies against israel , starting with hezbollah in neighboring lebanon .
is walking away from the iran nuclear deal , as many supporters of the new us administration are demanding , conducive to easing the crisis in the middle east ?
the master of the kremlin is sure to have taken note of this .
for starters , the us must maintain strong ties with its two regional allies – japan and south korea .
but more steps are needed .
under the agreed deal , all participating countries are free to determine their own emissions- reduction targets and the policies for achieving them , and they may make revisions as they see fit .
still , trump can not take all of america with him .
among the middle three qu in tiles , the effective rate in 2013 was 1 3.8 % , down from an average of 16. 6 % over the three previous decades .
eliminating federal subsidies for health-insurance coverage under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government a little over $ 100 billion a year , about 3 % of federal spending .
the trade war is a ham - f isted and nearly incoherent attempt by the trump administration to stall china ’ s economic ascent by trying to stifle the country ’ s exports and access to western technology .
donald trump ’ s dark art of the tweet
the passage giving his controversial speech its name all u ded to inner city riots in the united states and invoked virg il : “ like the roman , i seem to see ‘ the river ti ber fo aming with much blood . ’ ”
the koch brothers , with a combined net worth of some $ 100 billion , have spent freely for decades to take over the us political system , mobilizing other right-wing corporate interests as well .
diff idence and arrogance is a fatal combination for a secretary of state , yet that is precisely what tillerson displayed – and he rarely seemed to have a good day in the job .
the cut in corporate taxes that the republicans are likely to support will not boost wages significantly .
and proposals for a border adjustment tax have been all but forgotten .
and many are expecting a major downturn in the next five years ; otherwise , the economy would have experienced an almost un hear d- of decade- and- a- half expansion .
adding to the turmoil was the publication of bo b wood ward ’ s latest book , fear , which ( like previous books on trump , but to a greater extent and with more depth ) offers a devastating por trait of a dysfunctional white house .
apparently , he thinks that trade surpluses and deficits amount to profit and loss statements for countries .
another major difference today is that many firms are a part of global value chains , whereby goods are assembled in countries like mexico or china from imported components , the most sophisticated of which often come from the us .
at a rally in august , trump reiterated threats about imposing a 25 % tariff on automobiles – particularly those from the european union .
in helsinki , putin confirmed that he had wanted trump to win the election – a calculated move , no doubt , that he knew would seem to corro bor ate accusations that trump ’ s presidential campaign coll u ded with the kremlin .
how could such a keen observer of the us , whose former career as a spy h oned his ability to dec i ph er people ’ s motives and intentions , fail to recognize the fal sen ess of trump ’ s promises ?
in the early hours of september 2 , 2015 , in bo dr um , turkey , a syrian kurdish family boar ded a d ing h y to try to reach greece .
nonetheless , bu khar in aligned with stalin to purge le on tro t sky and other bolshev i ks who sought to adhere more closely to lenin ’ s dictates ( and his testament against stalin ) .
cre do action ’ s website includes an eas y- to- use menu to express one ’ s support on a range of issues .
in 18 47 , hungarian ob ste tric ian ign a z sem mel we is demonstrated that he could greatly reduce maternal deaths in his clinic simply by having doctors steril ize their hands .
but this option isn ’ t likely to go anywhere , either .
the dos si er by former british spy christ opher ste el e about us president donald trump ’ s activities in moscow some years ago may turn out to be as credible as the claims that saddam hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction – or it may not . we simply don ’ t know .
political paths that seemed parallel just a few months ago are now diver ging .
political stability may be more surely gained by europe ’ s re commitment to its social-democratic economic model .
it is far too soon to say what , exactly , trump ’ s presidency will mean for asia .
it is certainly not just in america that people desire a sense of vocational accompl ishment , rather than simply money to live on .
the truth is that , thanks to extensive experience designing and implementing cost-effective aid programs , poorly used funds represent a tiny fraction of the total invested in aid .
but russia took that deal out of self-interest , not because of the trump administration ’ s ob sequ iousness .
while wto adjudic ation takes time and effort , more often than not the rulings have favored the us .
that challenge is to shape the global economy , including trade , so that it finally respects the planet ’ s natural boundaries .
but if the eu had agreed on a ver , european producers would have received that $ 4 billion from higher sales revenues , and for them this sum would have been a very important shot in the arm , allowing them to invest in higher productivity and more sustainable production .
if the tariffs really are about national security , they must be placed on imports mainly from close allies like canada , mexico , japan , and the eu .
if bannon wants to transform the american political landscape , an impe ached or defeated trump could become an ideal mar ty r for his movement .
he is of the world of stag ecraft more than statecraft , of p ag ean try more than policy .
and these change , not just with time , but according to who speaks , when , and where .
but trump now knows what to do to be admired as a great leader .
and the eu ’ s house is fragile : it already taxes car imports from the us at 10 % , compared to the 2.5 % tariff the us has in place for car imports from the eu .
now , he has ordered steep tariffs on imported steel and aluminum ( 25 % and 10 % , respectively ) , basing the move on a rarely used national-security exception to world trade organization rules .
meanwhile , the eu and asian ste el- importing countries , like india and indonesia , are preparing to adopt safeguard measures to counter a potential surge of imported steel diverted from the us .
nearly four decades after reagan ’ s alleged supply-side revolution , dé j à v u is in the air . it ’ s the sc ent of an approaching storm .
in his 1931 mac mil lan report to the british parliament , keynes proposed that an import tariff be pa ired with an export subsidy , which would mim ic the effects of exchange-rate devaluation , while maintaining the gol d- pound parity .
yet we can not take it for granted .
under president donald trump ’ s administration , the american government does not even bother to pay lip service to democracy anymore .
and we must fight to uphold the nuclear deal with iran and nuclear non-proliferation around the world .
the consequences of trump ’ s trade strategy aren ’ t confined to asia .
and with the yields on government bonds also very low , investors ’ animal spirits were running high , boosting the price of many risky assets .
for better or for worse , the globalization train has long since left the station , and the idea that one can turn it back is utterly naive .
with trump , those good times may be about to come to an end .
and his braz en willingness to challenge the 40- year-old “ one china ” policy by speaking directly with taiwanese president tsai ing- wen – to say nothing of his subsequent anti- china tweets – leaves little doubt that his administration will follow nav arr o ’ s prescription and take dead aim at america ’ s largest and most powerful trading partner .
depending on the discipline , anywhere from 24 % to 80 % of scientists and engineers employed in the us are foreign- born .
if trump cuts taxes and manages to enact a massive infrastructure program , america ’ s budget deficits will rise , perhaps dramatically .
the mistake is to slash the overall budget , rather than real locate funds and increase outlays on vitally needed programs that fight hunger and disease , educate children , and prevent conflicts .
europeans should not have to compromise their genuinely held concerns about privacy just to promote trade , which is simply a means ( sometimes ) to achieving higher living standards .
similarly , the united kingdom has just added £ 7 million ( $ 9 million ) , bringing its total contribution for the current year to £ 4 5.5 million .
since being inaug ur ated before a ph ant om crowd of millions , trump has picked fights with one government after another , including allies like australia and germany .
but it is also another area where obama set the bar high during his two terms .
vienna – barack obama was right to say that democracy itself was on the ballot in the just- concluded us presidential election .
trump likes headlines and most likely he would prefer a favorable news cycle or two , given the recent gy r ations in financial markets .
yet the us – and only the us – now rejects the security council ’ s role in such matters .
this must be the premise of any effort to establish the truth about what happened .
our lives no longer feel ground under them .
clearly , the industrial jobs that are missing in the us have also gone missing in japan and germany , and those jobs are not in mexico .
i claimed in the book that , in the absence of a more concerted government response , too much globalization would deepen societal cleav ages , exacerbate distributional problems , and undermine domestic social barg ains – arguments that have become conventional wisdom since .
thus , to the very limited extent that tariffs do prove “ punitive ” for china , the effect on other emerging markets and the global economy will not be damaging “ contagion ” but a modest boost to demand that results from displacing chinese exports to the us .
with trump scheduled to meet chinese president xi jinping at the g20 summit in argentina this week , the us may have one last chance to turn things around .
when the us deployed its terminal high al titude area defense system in south korea , china used its economic leverage to retaliate against south korea , but not against america .
as soon as a few experts are found to have been offering half- truths – or worse – the credibility of the entire field can be called into question .
reg ling may not be a major player in his own right , but he never speaks out of turn or contradicts the ecb and the german government .
no matter how much their directors may want to focus on the diseases that kill the most people , the current system of financial incentives means that if they did so , their shareholders would remove them , or their companies would soon be out of business . that would help no one .
and , unlike the us , middle eastern countries and their neighbors can not decide to “ pivot ” away from the region when the consequences of their poorly designed interventions become too unru ly .
in european- turkish relations , two trains are rac ing head long towards each other .
for many politicians , particularly in america , there is an unwillingness to upset turkey without strong justification , given its record as a loyal nato ally and put ative eu candidate country .
tensions rise , often accompanied by violence on the streets .
at its peak , during the week of august 8- 15 , the currencies of argentina , south africa , and turkey depreciated by 8- 14 % against the us dollar .
my fa ther -in- law was the alleged master mind of the s led ge hammer plot , so my wife and i found ourselves mo on lighting as for ens ic detec tives and political activists .
but the turkish government also hopes to prevent the establishment of an independent kurdistan that could project its influence into southeast turkey .
this influence does not imply a hegemonic relationship , but rather points to an alternative path for reform and economic development that other primarily muslim countries might take .
turkish democracy ’ s secret weapon
during this period , turkey would face severe political , economic , and security pressures not only from the us and other nato states , but also from russia , iran , and others .
though careful not to challenge the constitution openly , from 1971 to 2001 , they were succ essively banned as threats to secularism .
all told , the campaign and vote fell far short of established international standards , as election monitors from the organization for security and cooperation in europe have pointed out .
in their view , turkey had re- oriented its foreign policy toward the muslim middle east and away from the west – a shift supposedly reflected in the country ’ s deteriorating relations with israel and improving ties with iran and syria .
given that the government can change laws , name judges , and staff the state administration , turkey ’ s slide to another political model could reach a point of no return .
those who wish to express a kurdish identity , as well as all other citizens , must be confident that , while all remain committed to national unity , turkey is a country in which diversity can thrive .
but this assumes that europe is willing and able to benefit from what turkey has to offer .
unfortunately , the international community as a whole has so far performed poorly in providing an effective response to the crisis .
the headscar f that gü l ’ s wife we ars for religious reasons was seen as an assault on turkey ’ s sac ros anc t principle of secularism .
according to the syrian observ atory for human rights , at least 70 civilians – and 21 children – have been killed during the operation , while more than 100 sd f soldiers have per ished , including one female soldier whose body was mu til ated by turkish forces .
as an emerging power , turkey will continue to realize its own potential and simultaneously contribute to global peace .
there is one thing , however , that could revive the eu , give it much enhanced global respec tability , and make it an “ interesting ” place , as well as ensure a return to the international lim el ight : turkey ’ s admission as a full member .
soon , the us was providing weapons and training to the py d ’ s armed wing .
indeed , it is one reason why saudi arabia maintains an equal distance from all iraqi factions , and why we are the only country not to have sent a permanent ambassador .
so the best the world can currently hope for is revived dialogue , an agreement to freeze the north ’ s y ong by on nuclear plant , and perhaps a moratorium on further missile and nuclear tests .
unfortunately , the problem of nuclear arms is still very serious today .
although entering peace talks with a future modi government would risk provoking a domestic backlash , sharif might still be willing to break the ice if the main political parties support his moves .
co- founder and ceo ev an willi ams recently suggested that software developers were working on technology to evade government barriers , though he did not give specific details .
twenty- five years of hiv/aids
the pope ’ s legacy is , in other words , a story of great strengths and considerable weaknesses .
as a perpetual over draft drawn from the bundesbank , this money was not unlike the international monetary fund ’ s special drawing rights , except that there is much more of it – a sum greater than all of the funds imf countries are willing to loan to one another .
europeans ( germans in particular ) , on the other hand , enjoyed the `` rhin eland model '' : a market economy that har nesses economic success to the cause of social justice .
meanwhile , president xi jinping ’ s anti-corruption campaign increasingly looks like a strategy to consolidate power , rather than an effort to reform china ’ s state for the benefit of its economy and society .
the decisive political maneuver – building a coalition with allies of communists – was carried out by l ech wa ł ę sa .
the taxpayer is not called upon , even in extreme cases , and states can go bankrupt .
employers ’ associations join with strong trade unions to organize and run training schemes at the sectoral level .
since the end of the cold war , the us has been involved in seven wars and military interventions , and in 2006 , after the invasion of iraq , george w. bush issued a national security strategy that was almost the opposite of trump ’ s , promoting freedom and a global community of democracies .
in a country that has spent the past five decades building an economy from a standing start , the government in which i serve knows only too well that such figures , while showing that our development is progres sing , do not tell the whole story – or anything like it .
uber and other digital platforms are re defining the interaction among consumers , workers , and employers .
this educational parad ise is not in a rich country with unlimited resources ; it is in a refugee camp in western uganda .
even korea and japan maintain massive duties on imported rice simply to protect the livelihoods of their own rice farmers .
the country will soon become not just a lesser exporter , but also a lesser power .
but , if it does , the eu may face some backlash from those who are stuck in line .
ed in burgh – can the united kingdom ever reconcile itself to being part of europe ?
the american historian will dur ant called britain ’ s colonial sub jug ation of india “ the greatest crime in all history . ”
a strong relationship with the eu should be pit ched as a means to advance these goals , not as a goal in itself .
in any case , it is doubtful that anyone in london will take much notice .
imf staff have recommended scr apping the systemic exemption .
the education reform will change this .
that is why the eastern partnership , if it is to be renewed , must embrace bold new initiatives for ukraine , and not try to re heat old policies designed for very different circumstances .
putin ’ s russia needs oil at $ 100 a barrel and will start running out of currency reserves in 2-3 years .
efforts to combat corruption are at best half- hear ted and are not bringing any apparent results .
but this would be an ir responsibly dangerous and ultimately counterproductive strategy .
such an alliance would make yushchenko 's rule , if he wins , more difficult - and he knows it .
for our movement is a triumph , not of mob s but of jo y ous crowds ; of protests , not of loo ting ; of clear purpose , not confusion .
when spending is high , it is usually social spending that is badly targeted , which means that only a small share of poor people really benefit .
indeed , this did happen with the one property recovery that my government was able to secure , the giant kr y vor iz h st al steel works that our former president ’ s son- in-law gained through a rigged sale at a bargain price .
a yanukovych restoration would be a disaster for ukraine , for russia , and for europe , because it would put ukraine ’ s independence in question and temp t russia with dreams of renewed empire .
western sanctions against russia have certainly highlighted the seriousness with which the eu and the united states view putin ’ s efforts to challenge and undermine the core principles of european security and international law .
similarly , the potential for uni on- led bargaining to redistribute income presupposes non- competitive corporate practices , which in turn generate abnormal profits that can be barg ained away by unions .
how convincing is that answer today ?
but may ’ s problematic approach to immigration extends back further .
in other words , the un ’ s foundations , laid down in 1945 , remain strong .
this experimental approach by central banks has involved the conscious decoupling of financial- asset prices from their fundamentals .
add to that the smart use of state resources , together with su re- foo ted reforms , and china should be able to achieve moderate yet sustainable long-term growth .
the fall - out from this scenario , however , would be largely confined to asia .
the political environment is very different from that of six years ago .
at the very least , this will accelerate the trend toward precar iousness of jobs and income .
and the world , it seems , is letting them get away with it .
indeed , the eurozone , the uk , the us , and japan are all pursuing varying degrees of fiscal austerity and consolidation .
sandy we ill , the primary architect of the modern citigroup , regre ts that construction – and regre ts lobbying for the repeal of glass-steagall .
thus , an inf lex ible contract can protect workers when the pre pon der ance of bargaining power is with firms .
and emerging economies more broadly are suffering from low commodity prices , which are being suppressed by reduced demand .
north korea is , strang ely , a domestic issue for china .
before turning to policy , it is important to dispose of several myths that interfere with clear analysis .
it was able to direct the syn thesis of viral proteins in the absence of a natural tem plate .
in the most recent case , al gore won a majority of the popular vote in 2000 , but george w. bush won the presidency .
a second approach is to have the government ensure the stability of significant parts of the financial system that hold illiquid assets by recapit alizing regulated entities that have a realistic possibility of survival , and merging or closing those that do not .
new york – the united nations will mark its 7 0th anniversary when world leaders assemble next month at its headquarters in new york .
over time , a reporting system could be implemented to facilitate an examination of the impact of health and education policies on the world ’ s most marginalized boys and girls .
in addition to heads of state and government from all over the world , the summit will bring together civil-society and private-sector organizations , because , when it comes to meeting humanitarian needs , everyone must be involved .
the non- weapon states that join the treaty will be tested , too .
the second way to help refugees is to ensure their safety and wellbeing .
one year ago , moreover , the us , european , and chinese economies and markets were ro aring .
perhaps his effort to change america ’ s cuba policy – which means challenging the highly disciplined lobby opposing the rule of fidel castro and his brother raúl – will show the way .
the difference is a whopping $ 1 4.3 trillion .
but what consequences ?
and , because few features of the corporate tax law can be changed to reduce that revenue loss , i think the corporate tax rate will be reduced to about 25 % . that would still be substantially less than the current rate and in line with the oecd average .
first , the eu should take a leading role in maximizing the efficiency of each member state ’ s navy , by creating mechanisms that would facilitate the exchange of information between governments , maritime agencies , and nav ies .
but implementing a full-blown ubi would be difficult , not least because it would require answering a number of complex questions about goals and priorities .
yet the idea continues to attract a mot ley cre w of tech and labor leaders , liber tar ians , and progressives , who fear a coming age of mass technological unemployment .
south korea , which has lifted itself up from the ranks of the world ’ s poorest countries to among its richest in just two generations , is living proof that education pays off .
what they say about europe probably applies to most other parts of the world as well , though not to the united states .
but it is also a disturbing feature of home life ; 37 % of african women report having been abused by their partner .
hu , a life- long party func tionary , was able to fool most observers during his first year in office .
the real issue , then , becomes perceived fairness in a particular society – a hard indicator to quanti fy .
“ i am bringing you what you need most : a stable and guaranteed source of energy .
for example , it has been estimated that if we were to use sections of about 35 square micro meters ( mil lion ths of a meter ) at a th ic kness of 20 nan ome ters , we would need more than 1.4 billion sections to re construct fully just one cubic mil li meter of tissue .
the lat est- model japanese bullet train , the ha y ab us a , which made its de but only a week before the earthquake , can operate at 3 20 kilometers ( 200 miles ) per hour – and now does , following quick repa irs to its line .
now , it is the business community ’ s turn to step up .
once a candidate has been chosen , it is important to set clear performance expectations that can be evaluated annually .
there is a desperate need to re-establish consensus on how to address atrocity crimes so extreme that they may require a military response .
without bold innovation , the new development agenda will be far from sustainable .
india , for example , enacted legislation ten years ago to provide sons and daughters with equal claim to inherit family land in most situations .
but such policies are harder to implement in poorer countries , where technological capabilities and infrastructure are often lacking .
so institution alizing particip atory planning must be the starting point .
but there is an alternative for unlocking public wealth at the local level : professional management of existing public assets .
after the vote , he touted it as a victory for “ the colombia of the believers . ”
to be sure , the idea that robots are go b bling up human jobs is a new sl ant on the very old problem of technological unemployment .
more important , 5 % equity is unlikely to be enough to absorb the kinds of losses that a highly volatile world will throw up .
even as china defied world trade rules , forced companies to share their intellectual property , and flex ed its military muscles , the us held onto the naive hope that , as china became increasingly prosperous , it would naturally pursue economic and even political liberalization .
today , china sells $ 4 worth of goods to the us for every $ 1 in imports .
this does not bode well for the world ’ s capacity to confront shared challenges , from migration to climate change .
but , when it comes to bigger – and economically un justified – demands , china is likely to hold the line .
what they fail to acknowledge is that there is also plenty they can do to make the global trading system – and their relationships with china – fairer and more efficient .
today , with the economy norm alizing , the case for creative policies like qe , which effectively short ens government debt by suc king long-term bonds out of the market , seems much weaker .
emerging markets have long been particularly vulnerable to this phenomenon .
this dollar rally , the result of genuine economic progress and divergent policy developments , could contribute to the “ rebalancing ” that has long elu ded the world economy .
the us economy and the midterm elections
movements like france ’ s anti-immigration national front are making leading mainstream parties more likely to p ander to extremists in order to preserve their support .
and other commentators view the talks as another forum for cooperation , hoping that trade negotiations will improve coordination among financial regulators .
good regulation means more than just preventing the banking sector from harming the rest of us ( though the fed didn ’ t do a very good job of that before the crisis ) . it also means adopting and enforcing rules that restrict the flow of funds into speculation and encourage the financial sector to play the constructive role in our economy that it should , by providing capital to establish new firms and enable successful companies to expand .
and our objective is to get the gu ys who did 9/11 and it is to avoid another attack against the united states . ”
we need to put aside crow d- pleas ing calls for president bashar al-assad ’ s removal ( though obviously he must go ) and work harder with international partners , including russia and china – both of which should , quite frankly , rank higher than syria in terms of their importance to us foreign policy .
meanwhile , market volatility has grown , and a correction is still underway .
under these conditions , profits – and consumer abuse – can be maxim ized through collusion .
housing bubble dé j à v u
building on that base , indian information industries are able to play a major global role .
london – to solve the problem of antimicrobial resistance , the world needs not only new drugs , but also new behavior – by all seven billion of us .
governments and donors must therefore also work to develop and carry out targeted surveys of adolescents .
rather , amid widespread ignorance and apathy , government and law enforcement have lacked the motivation to administer existing laws adequately .
the conference came at a time when developing countries and emerging markets have demonstrated their ability to absorb huge amounts of money produc tively .
such negotiations would likely start with a lengthy discussion of the two sides ’ conflicting interpretations of the history of their relationship – in other words , each country ’ s grievances with the other .
and the chinese government ’ s loud calls for continued climate cooperation and quick moves in the wake of trump ’ s election to fill the void left by the tpp ’ s apparent abandonment indicate a will to assume a more central position in global cooperation .
repudiation of nafta with no replacement would have been so costly that it was always a distant possibility , but it was a possibility all the same .
trump ’ s media hand lers may be hoping that they can demand compliance as a condition for rene wing access .
representing $ 19 trillion in potential economic value over the next decade , digitization has the power to enable countries to kick-start gdp growth , job creation , and innovation .
but that will require cooperation from china , which the trump administration has gone to great leng ths to alienate .
president george w. bush and prime minister gordon brown are obviously more responsible for the financial crisis than are their successors , who have to clean up the mess .
anyone who portr ays the us as a huge loser from the global economic status quo needs to gain some perspective on the matter .
on the democratic side , the question asked in political circles these days is not whether hillary clinton can win the nomination , but whether she can lose it .
democratic candidates are more likely to be sympathetic to whatever is negotiated ; but there are certain to be differences among candidates on both sides .
the republicans ' inability to control their house faction has exposed them to responsibility for a d hs shutdown at a time of increased terror threats .
released in mates face huge barriers to employment , housing , health care , and education .
the result is an obesity rate of 3 3.7 % , the highest by far in the oecd , with enormous adverse consequences for non- communicable diseases .
a century ago , the russian revolution came down to a showdown between the iron will of vladimir lenin and the in decis iveness of alexander ker en sky , who ended up s ne aking out of saint petersburg to escape the bolshev i ks .
few people would argue that punishing criminals and terrorists is illegitimate , even if there are disagreements about specific cases .
these agreements go well beyond trade , governing investment and intellectual property as well , imposing fundamental changes to countries ’ legal , judicial , and regulatory frameworks , without input or accountability through democratic institutions .
this could , according to research conducted by the peter son institute , boost us incomes by 0.4 % – roughly $ 77 billion a year .
what everyone wants to know is why – and whether its stock market ’ s current level is justified .
the overall consumer price index ( cpi ) is now 2.9 % higher than it was a year ago .
but my analysis should serve as a warning against complacency .
the fact that afghanistan ’ s ethnic groups are concentrated in distinct geographical zones would simplify partition and make the resulting borders more likely to last , unlike those drawn by colonial officials , who invented countries with no national identity or historical roots .
of course , medium-size is not nothing .
the oecd adopted an excellent set of “ principles for internet policy making ” in 2011 .
but don ’ t be fool ed . the report is wide of the mark in several key areas .
american allies have spent billions of dollars more .
both ru zim ur ad ov and be k jan ov have spent a small fortune paying for medical care since their release , owing to the toll nearly two decades in prison took on their health .
the size of the challenges that we face was made clear at the beginning of this year , when a measles outbreak killed more than 300 children in pakistan – most of whom had not received vaccines .
it is a high-risk endeavor , with the vast majority of potential vaccines failing to reach the market .
as we age , our bodies undergo complex changes that , among other things , progres sively weaken our ability to respond to infections and develop immunity ( this is called immun os en es cence ) .
what needs to be better understood publicly is just how many different roles the un plays .
about 20 % of voters backed the left-wing populist jean- luc  mé len ch on in the presidential election ’ s first round . in the second round , one particularly ill um inating twitter hash tag was # n ip at ron n ip atri e ( “ neither boss nor country ” ) , reflecting many voters ’ dissatisfaction with the election ’ s choice between neoliberalism and nationalism .
small wonder , then , that varoufakis and tsipras are playing for time , refusing to submit a list of meaningful reform proposals .
at home , in the context of mar ital intim acy , victor ia ’ s secret , elegant fashion , and skin care lo tions ab ounded .
the implication is clear .
the government chose this course of action because it felt that it was better than the alternatives .
and thanks to a sense of shared history and purpose , not to mention a little hum or , we were able to do just that , with our personal relations gradually shifting from antagon istic to cor di al .
but that can provide us with a false sense of security ; properly viewed , venezuela ’ s experience holds important lessons for other countries .
and , as in ukraine and china , the affected firms ’ output quickly collapsed .
because the economic situation continues to deteriorate rapidly , it is reasonable to expect that this massive exodus will accelerate .
moreover , their triumph alist re jo icing is a cruel reminder that when the oppressed become liberated , they can very easily turn into op pres sors themselves .
vietnam ’ s chinese lessons
once students are online , there is no limit to what they can do with the vast amount of information available to them or how they will collaborate with and learn from one another .
laws against child pornography in other countries may also have the effect of prohibiting games that permit virtual sex with virtual children .
by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens – more than either india or china .
in russia ’ s current political cycle , which will culmin ate in the presidential election of march 2008 , there will be no difficulty in meeting the main conditions of legitimacy : respecting the constitution ’ s rules about regular free elections to the presidency .
so long as the façade holds , russians will continue to cling to putin ’ s illusion of power .
with a two-state solution less likely than ever , the area is likely to experience the cre eping consolidation of a one- state reality .
but all of them could improve conditions for negotiations by sending the same message to their respective syrian clients , namely that they h enc e forth exclude a military victory by one side over the other .
but having different authorities administer different parts of syria is preferable to the absence of any responsible governance across large swaths of the country .
in estonia , which is widely considered to be a leader in the use of voting technology , almost one-quarter of all votes in the 2011 parliamentary election were cast online .
on the economic crisis , climate change , and many other global issues , china and the us are potentially the decisive actors .
the notion that americans have gotten better at everything while other rich countries have stood still is thus wildly misleading .
in no other area of medicine and law would an un proved hypothesis provide a basis for diagnosis , let alone criminal prosecution .
in fact , the preconditions for intra- regional cooperation – up to partial integration of the interests of the countries involved – look more aus pic ious than they did in western europe in the early 1950 ’ s .
that is possible , but we should not overlook cause for hope in what america ’ s politicians just accomplished .
that tactic backfired badly .
this will cause obvious hardship , but it will also hold back the economic growth needed for millions of people to escape poverty .
the rest is used mainly for agriculture .
the international committee of the red cross does negotiate safe passage for techn icians to inspec t and repair damage to water pip es and storage systems in iraq , syria , and ukraine ; but each passage needs to be negotiated with governments in conflict and rebel commanders – a long and cumbersome process .
around the turn of the century , the first sequencing of the human genome led to “ reverse vacc in ology . ”
this is no cause for sch aden fre ude .
on the economic front , trump ’ s trade policies will become even less popular in the months ahead as the american economy co ols from the “ sugar high ” of the corporate tax cut , as growing uncertainty about global trade policy ham strings business investment , and as both the budget deficit and interest rates rise .
as unemployment remains stubbornly high and incomes stagnate in much of the eurozone , the temptation to blame “ the germans ” is becoming ever stronger .
for this reason , they refused to reach out to their secular opponents to offer them a piece of the political pie .
it is at such moments that we demonstrate our ability – or lack of it – to confront the un explained , the un planned , and the un fa thom able .
what , then , is an economist to do ?
moral claims for self-determination are justly raised in the case of the palestinians , but they are entirely absent from the international discourse about kurdistan .
second , infrastructure needs to be developed to connect national markets .
what ukraine really needs is to escape the old soviet order – and , for that , it needs the west ’ s help .
the third challenge for europe is social inequality .
in their widely cited paper “ growth in a time of debt , ” kenneth rogoff and carmen reinhart argue that , when government debt exceeds 90 % of gdp , countries suffer slower economic growth .
in reality , these conflicts are not frozen ; they are fest ering wounds that breed corruption and organized crime .
and yet all of the republican candidates are proud of opposing gun - control measures ; indeed , they have no problem allowing people to enter a school or a bar bearing conce aled weapons .
what is needed is a concerted push to end the yemen conflict . what needs to be avoided is exploitation of the trump administration ’ s anti- iran anim us to provoke an armed confrontation that would force others to overcome their qual ms and side with saudi arabia .
the un has been trying to broker a resolution since spain depar ted the territory , transferring administrative control over western sahara to maur it ania and morocco .
but , judging by the eu ’ s growing tolerance of il liberalism , some eu leaders may well be prepared to contemplate a closer relationship with erdoğan ’ s turkey .
a search of old newspapers finds surprisingly few articles about the outlook for home prices .
so ends another bizarre year ( which makes it similar to previous years ) in the history of north korea .
but ireland and spain had budget surpluses and low debt before the crisis , which quickly turned into large deficits and high debt .
together , we account for nearly a third of humanity and two-thirds of the world economy .
but perhaps the problem is deeper : global corporations , media cartels , and powerful bureaucracies are transforming political parties into organizations whose main task is no longer public service , but the protection of specific cli ent el es and interests .
of course , value-added includes profits , and to this extent the incentive for companies to manipulate transfer prices may re appear .
but , given that any successful democratic transition must include meaningful civilian control over the armed forces and the security apparatus , the scaf ’ s minimum demands could render the process meaningless .
time and again , it is argued that the single currency does not fit the different needs of its member countries , and that unsustainable economic divergence will ultimately require that the euro be abandoned .
so , for starters , the eu should establish an orderly migration policy with quotas and criteria , as australia and canada have successfully done , and impose proper control over its external borders .
between january 2017 and january 2018 , the broad effective exchange rate of the dollar fell by 8 % , wr ong- footing many of the pundits .
merkel has changed profoundly while in office .
for china , it is excessive reliance on fixed- asset investment for growth .
he was taken to the psychiatric ward , where , according to another prisoner who had been there , he was kept until he died .
ireland provides insights that are helpful in understanding how soci opoliti cal systems , including economically devastated countries like cyprus and greece , have cop ed so far with shocks that were essentially unthinkable just a few years ago .
your body , for example , maintains a constant temperature of approximately 37 degrees celsius .
china ’ s government has clearly indicated that it will use any means necessary to backstop growth in the face of a free fall in exports .
but this notion has been contentious in the west for centuries . nowadays , gender equality has become the norm .
the cause , as all the world knows , was the fatally brutal rape of a young woman on a moving bus , after which she and her male compan ion – himself beaten nearly to death – were thrown , naked , into the street on a freezing night .
in her debate with biden , palin actually attacked obama for saying that , in her words , “ all we ’ re doing in afghanistan is air- ra iding villages and killing civilians . ”
we can either allow people to use their time ( standing in line ) to bid for seats , or we can auc tion seats for money .
it also applies to civic goods and practices .
in any case , the day after the completion of the gaza withdrawal , israelis and palestinians will be confronted with important unresolved questions .
it began well , when spanish voters approved the draft european union constitution , but it turned sour when french and dutch voters spur ned it soon after .
follow it , and you will conclude that , ultimately , the war is all about the american superpower ’ s military victory over the taliban , so that it can finally withdraw its troops – for a second time .
the us will have to find agreement with its allies and enter into direct talks with all the other players to try and achieve a new regional consensus .
in july 2010 , a total of 4 39 nuclear power plants with a net installed capacity of 3 7 3. 0 38 g w ( e ) were connected to various national electricity grids , about 1.2 g w ( e ) more than at the beginning of 2006 .
the public below , just like the leaders above , cher ish political stability ; the popularity ratings of both prime minister putin and president dmitri medvedev remain above 70 % .
given that qe managed to sustain near-zero interest rates for almost seven years , it should have encouraged governments in developed countries to borrow and invest in infrastructure , education , and social sectors . increasing social transfers during the post-crisis period would have boosted aggregate demand and smoo th ed out consumption patterns .
the current system relies on ad hoc mechanisms , which generally operate too late , after high indebtedness has already imposed devastating effects .
indeed , the us has never had a woman president , senate majority leader , secretary of the treasury , or secretary of defense .
the answer is simple .
educating the public to understand this complex globalized information age , and what is required to operate successfully in it , will be the real transformational leadership task .
turkey is resurgent yet troubled ; iraq has been invaded and abandoned ; iran is isolated and threatened ; israel is anxious and belligerent ; and afghanistan and pakistan are internally im balanced and politically fragile .
not surprisingly , it became the world ’ s richest country during the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries .
what matters most right now is massive economic and military assistance .
difficult economic times will make it hard to generate support for trade pacts , despite the current importance of export-oriented firms for the american economy .
most recently , it has unveiled plans to write a new constitution before the presidential election , and its electoral commission has dis qualified 10 of the 23 presidential candidates on f lim sy grounds .
in both cases , a major historical mistake was made .
nothing ( short of the death of a major contender ) interrup ts the franch ise .
let ’ s ignore for the moment the v ex ed constitutional issues that will be raised if a us state en acts legislation that conflicts with federal law . let ’ s focus instead on what may happen if the law changes as the referendum proposes .
when techn ophobia becomes toxic
though the fed has now decided to keep its policy rate ‎ unchanged , it also stated that a rate hike is still on the table for 2015 .
on one hand , pakistan is seeking large investments from china to improve its physical infrastructure and exploit its considerable mineral wealth .
the european central bank , of course , for allowing the euro to appreciate too much and for not cutting interest rates enough .
my ple a to discuss plans and strategies alongside specific emissions targets might seem to risk impeding the negotiations . but if we don ’ t have a strategy to accompany our targets , the world ’ s governments might not accept such targets in the first place , or might accept them cyn ically , without any intention of actually meeting them .
otherwise , george soros and his wealthy fellow investors could not have dreamed of taking on the bank of england .
so the british , under tony blair ’ s current presidency of the eu council of ministers , have gotten their way for now , and the americans – keen backers of turkey ’ s eu aspirations – have once again succeeded in acting as a “ european power . ”
for turkey to consider military intervention in kurdistan , eu member states would first have to rene ge on their commitment to negotiate turkish accession .
president m wa i kib aki , whom international observers accuse of rigg ing the vote , has hinted at a plan to share power in a unity government , but opposition leader rail a od ing a has heard these promises before .
that report instantly raised a question in my mind : if we accept the regime ’ s diagnosis , why did kim need to work so hard , despite his fra il health ?
in late 2009 , the president also approved the seventh national finance commission , which will allocate to the provinces a larger share of the revenues collected by the central government .
this depends on the development of a robust civil society , tolerant of open debate , and healthy liberal political parties , as well as active participation by women and an independent media .
politicians around the world trade favors for cash needed to win elections , and they often use that cash to buy the votes of desperately poor people .
who is gordon brown ?
re crimin ations after financial crises have a long history , and they rec ur in regular cycles .
nowhere has this phenomenon been stronger than in turkey , where those military escap ades have strained the two countries ’ strategic alliance almost to the breaking point .
in both cases , it is assumed that the value of the exchanged good is decided shortly after its delivery according to how it satis fies an immediate need .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians and , if necessary , publicly name and shame them .
if the boliv ians do not get fair value for their country ’ s natural wealth , their prospects are bleak .
china also became integrated into global supply chains – producing things for companies elsewhere – on a previously unimaginable scale , and chinese managers learned how to make better products .
according to the bbc , the code defines with absolute clarity and transparency how al- jazeera journalists are to behave , and sets clear divisions between news , analysis , and commentary .
where relevant information for companies was available , the comparable distribution of employees was also examined .
but this will only make mass protests inevitable , ultimately jeopardizing the democratic transition in georgia that saakashvili claims to represent .
but until the west stops regarding dead babies as political pro ps , we can not understand how the muslim world perce ives all that has happened since september 11 , 2001 .
discussing our priorities is crucial .
the climate of officially sanctioned hom ophobia in nigeria has already set back the fight against aids .
who wants peace in the middle east ?
economic pre dominance shifted only when the uk ran large current-account deficits during world wars i and ii – the country had to borrow heavily in order to finance its war effort , and imports were significantly higher than exports .
but , looking around us today , there do not seem to be many reasons for optimism elsewhere .
given that the united states has not been playing much of a leadership role on many of these issues recently , it is worth taking a look at what happens when no one country exercises effective leadership .
he understands the difference between media ( yet another of his personal investments is the web site business insider ) and journalism .
but america had an obligation to maintain law and order ; instead , we stood idly by while baghdad and other cities were rans acked .
if there is a kind of logic , however weak , it seems to revol ve around iran and israel , rather than syria per se .
for one thing , the united states was never a hegemon in asia .
china must also consider the implications of north korea ’ s actions on its own frac tious relations with japan .
and any attempt to make investment bankers suffer more last fall and winter would have put the entire support operation at risk .
others argue that western democracies have the opposite problem : a sur fe it of narrow , politically assertive interests leads to underinvestment and poor tradeoffs between present and future opportunities and performance .
the argument is simple : all economies have both borrowers and savers , and changes in the cost of borrowing ( or the return to saving ) affect them differently .
british prime minister david cameron , an austerity advocate , says he believes that his program reduces “ welfare dependency , ” restor es “ rig or , ” and encourages the “ the do ers , the creators , the life- affirm ers . ”
when a country gives up its monetary sovereignty , its banks are effectively borrowing in a foreign currency , making them exceptionally vulnerable to liquidity shocks , like that which sparked turmoil in europe ’ s banking system in 2010- 2011 .
in the reagan white house , don reg an , who succeeded james baker as chief of staff , fanci ed himself the prime minister : he inser ted himself into photos of reagan with soviet leader mikhail gorbachev , was ru de to lesser beings ( including reporters ) , and made the fatal mistake of hanging up on n ancy reagan , who was dedicated to looking after her ron ny .
advantage obama .
by contrast , in the us , the government pushed big banks into buying up smaller and vulnerable banks , and is now doing everything it can to press them to lend more .
worse , cryptocurrencies in general are based on a false premise .
at the height of the lending frenzy ( 200 4- 2006 ) , the study finds that banks lo aned even more in response to an examination , and that the outcomes were even worse .
regardless of their economic , racial , or political differences , all brazilians are up lifted by having the best team in the world , winning the world cup many times , and inv enting and reinv enting “ the beautiful game . ”
while it aims to maintain 5 % annual growth , its economy was relatively flat last year .
cl are mont , california – china ’ s current economic slowdown has no shortage of causes : europe ’ s financial turmoil , sput tering recovery in the united states , and weak domestic investment growth , to name the most commonly cited factors .
as old wounds fester , new issues have begun roiling bilateral relations .
others , who see a substantially undervalued renminbi as a significant factor in us unemployment , will be disappointed by gradual adjustment .
for example , the devol ution of some projec t- approval powers to local governments will not solve the underlying problem of excessive state intervention in the economy ; on the contrary , it may even enhance the state ’ s role by giving local governments more freedom to carry out investment projects .
between november 2008 and june 2009 , china ’ s banks issued more than ¥ 8. 6 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) in new loans .
he concluded that the mismatch between our early condition and modern civilization is at the root of our un happiness , advocating a lit eral return to nature .
they say that the experts failed to foresee the financial crisis of 2008 , put efficiency first in their policy advice , and blin dly assumed that the losers from their policy prescriptions could be compensated in some un specified way .
european banks , traditionally a major source of trade finance , have pulled back dramatically , owing to capital- adequacy problems caused by sovereign-debt capital losses and , in some cases , losses from real-estate lending .
most economists have very little interaction with the corporate world , and these “ un biased ” economists were no better at forecasting the crisis .
the most immediate need , about which there should be little controversy , is massive humanitarian assistance .
and yet he got the parties together by developing trust , which is the coin of the realm for an effective diplomat .
the german construction industry and retail ing are still stable , as the latest survey of the if o institute shows , and the whole world is prof iting from this stability , as germany is the second largest importer of goods and services after the us .
so far , so good .
the truth about sovereignty
the narrative should address three essential questions .
are eu members prepared to take a similar step ?
this has raised farm producers ’ income independently of the fair - trade movement ’ s efforts .
that is why climate advocates are increasingly looking for other means of triggering action .
unfortunately , a big part of these banks ’ profits stems from trading securities – exactly the sort of high-risk activity that got them into trouble in the run-up to the 2008 global financial crisis .
bes i eged economically at home , where his popularity is at its lowest since his election last year , can he regain credibility , if not support , as supreme commander of french forces ?
to be sure , europe has the means for joint action .
the specter of continuing economic stagnation and ever- rising unemployment ( with the young and older workers being the worst hit ) should remove the second , geopolitical obstacle to a french exit from the eurozone .
social malaise is deepening as expectations – and actual prospects – for economic improvement are likely to remain poor for the foreseeable future .
the later the breakup , the worse the ultimate outcome .
fifa only goes so far as to promise an “ opportunity for significant financial investment ” in infrastructure , as well as attention and investment that “ may contribute ” to growth .
seduc ed by the political economy of false prosperity , the west has squandered its might .
for the first time in almost 200 years , china can really throw its weight around , and it will do what it wants , regardless of what other countries may think .
the french republican model enshr ines the laudable abstract principles of liberty , equality , and frater nity .
similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists .
his dam age- control effort further backfired , because he fal sely claimed that clinton and her 2008 presidential campaign had started the bir ther rum or .
what is not uncertain is that an anti- euro party , run by a professional comedi an , be p pe grillo , will gain at least 20 % of the italian vote .
these assertions were not made as speculation , but rather as scientific claims about what the future held in store .
how economics survived the economic crisis
within the us , trump ’ s decision to pursue sweeping import tariffs has been described by one industry representative as “ the most self- destructive trade act i ’ ve ever seen . ”
and religion “ re config ures our ne ural path way s. ” in short : “ far from refu ting religion , the neo- darwin ists have helped us understand why it matters . ”
first , there is evidence that the syrian opposition has am assed chemical weapons .
paying more for a fair trade label is no more “ anti- market ” than paying more for a g uc ci label , and it reflects better ethical priorities .
ordinary russians may be in danger of attacks by islamic extremists , but they pose little threat to putin or his allies .
the issue is how substantial and durable such effects will be .
zombi e- like companies were kept on artificial life- support in the false hope that time alone would revive them .
why obamacare survived
for example , every other advanced country recognizes the right to accessible health care , and obama ’ s affordable care act represents a significant step toward that goal .
while the data were hardly devastating relative to a consensus forecast of 8. 2 % , many ( including me ) expected a second consecutive quarterly rebound from the slowdown that appeared to have ended in the third quarter of 2012 .
“ i find the explanation of the current business losses , of the reduction in output , and of the unemployment which necessarily ensu es on this not in the high level of investment which was proceeding up to the spring of 1929 , but in the subsequent c ess ation of this investment . ”
that is all the more important in periods – like the current one – of rapid change , high volatility , and only partly predictable systemic instability .
nobody is arguing that the commission is responsible for the deal ’ s unhappy end – only that it should have rallied support for it .
for this reason , triggering the omt mechanism requires the unanimous consent of eurozone governments .
over the past three decades , the us has been able to grow at an average annual rate of around 2.5 % .
this critique has some truth in it , but is overblown .
in 2012 , american “ prime ” money-market funds , which buy bank and corporate debt , were worth nearly $ 1.5 trillion .
the trans-pacific partnership , a free-trade agreement spearheaded by the us , is set to be a game- changer in the asia-pacific region , with decisive advances this year putting it on course to be concluded in 2015 .
at the same time , he led a broad united nation s- backed coalition that rep elled saddam hussein ’ s aggression against kuwait .
many problem-solving tasks require parallel computing with brains that possess different software and information but that can coordinate their thoughts .
but there are reasons to doubt that the situation is as dangerous as recent headlines suggest .
though seemingly fragile , it has held up remarkably well .
instead of continuing along this futile path , the fed should end its open-ended qe 3 now .
they are less likely than members of the professional political class to allow political calculations to influence their views .
if they don ’ t , they will continue to vote against the establishment that they believe has failed them – even if it means voting for turmoil in europe or a reckless narciss ist in the us .
likewise , purchasing luxury goods requires substantial financial resources .
in fact , the united nations sustainable development goal ( sdg 15 ) on sustainable ecosystems acknowledges many developing societies ’ close relationship with nature when it calls for increased “ capacity of local communities to pursue sustainable livelihood opportunities . ”
an emerging consensus suggests that the prices of many risky assets – including equities – have fallen so much that we are at the bottom and a rapid recovery will occur .
job- eroding technological advances , worsening income inequality , demographic shifts , dwindling natural resources , and environmental depletion are adding even more stra ws to the cam el ’ s back .
is china ready for green peace , human rights in china , amnesty international , and fal un g ong supporters to take to the streets , with thousands of foreign journalists hungry for stories and asking questions that the authorities are un accustomed to answering ?
that conclusion raises a key question : will alph a eventually go to zero for every imaginable investment strategy ?
for example , risks stemming from cyber attacks ( especially by state actors ) , pandemics , and certainly financial crises are probably far higher than anyone would like to admit .
atmos ph er ically , at least , relations have , indeed , improved since the us presidential election , and both sides have expressed good will .
when forecasting while in violation of the eurozone ’ s excessive deficit procedure , eurozone members with an independent budge t- forecasting institution have a mean bias that is 2.7 % of gdp smaller at the one- year horizon than members without such an institution .
the other view is that china contributed to global imbalances not through its merchandise exports , but through its capital exports .
the end game – for both israel and hamas – is thus crucially important .
in this case , many steps could easily have been taken to differenti ate mh 17 from a military- transport plane , including vis ual identification ( perhaps with bin oc ul ars ) , rad ar- signature analysis , and a check of the civilian aircraft tran spon der - code broadcast .
this changed when then- party leader jiang z em in and his prime minister , zhu r ong ji , centralized authority in order to stave off economic crisis at a time of growing risk to china ’ s banks .
the rising number of migrant deaths – both women and men – at sea and in deser ts is a wake-up call for the international community to act .
“ the crisis revealed the resulting risks to us financial stability , ” said fed governor daniel tar ul lo .
a stronger safety net for individuals might allow politicians to accept more corporate or financial-sector distress , and help bolster their claim that next time really will be different .
when interest rates go up , these payments will ( when the rate is variable ) also go up , possibly becoming unsustainable .
although his presence dramatically fuel led the situation for a time , brazilian diplomats , working with the us , were able to reach agreement with hondur an authorities to allow manuel z el aya to return to office .
that observation should not , however , over shadow fundamental economic insights – specifically , that trade and the location of production are determined by comparative , not absolute , advantage .
the dollar could not challenge sterling ’ s role as the world ’ s currency without matching its reputation .
the threatening country would then have to choose whether to accepting a humiliating defeat and stay , or stand on “ principle ” and leave .
although no particular heat wave can be directly attributed to global warming , it will make such events more frequent .
will the sun still rise ?
rather , it depends on a combination of capability and credibility .
hardliners , it seems , have been offered a new lease on life and can now claim their dismiss al of the jcpoa was justified from the start .
iraq was george bush ’ s gift to osama bin laden .
this , too , is a result brought about by the american ne oc on master minds .
in other words , private markets need to be convinced both that there is a low probability of default ( hence the importance of credible plans ) , and that there is some additional loss- bearing capacity in the new funding , so that , if there is a default , outstanding or rol led - over private debt does not have to bear the full brunt .
this type of aid does not require long studies , but quick action .
yes , we needed external assistance , but we never surr endered “ ownership ” of the reform process ; we made it work for us .
three dozen german mps and a significant us congressional delegation will also participate .
the world bank is a development finance institution .
nearly 20 % of women in developing countries report that they would like to stop having more children but are not using any form of contraception or family planning , possibly because reproductive services are not available .
runaway population growth becomes controllable when women have access to literacy and business opportunities as well as to contraception .
these countries are at a crossroads .
however , the “ br o ” culture in certain newer new s rooms carries its own sexual harassment risks for women .
what will g-8 summit meetings be like when american president hillary clinton and french president s é gol è ne royal join german chancellor angela merkel in a formidable triang le of women ’ s power ?
unfortunately , many savings groups , as important as they are , do not scale ; most operate in isolation from official services , which weakens their effectiveness .
when it comes to ignoring the importance of childcare for working parents , apple is far from unique .
unions ’ rising influence is evident in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’ s controversial deal to raise minimum wages for post al employees ; several american presidential candidates ’ open mis giv ings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’ s nascent concerns about labor standards .
work became more pleasant for some , but not for all .
let us all commit to achieving it in our life times – for the benefit of everyone .
the world health organization , led by the direc tor- general gr o har l em br und t land , recru ited kim to lead the who ’ s scal e- up effort .
even if one ignores the moral dimensions , a very low tax rate leaves a country more exposed to the threat of severe fiscal crises , which are a nightmare for business .
but a single number fails to capture the complexity of poverty .
for example , this april – after the us had launched its trade war with tariffs on steel and aluminum – the development committee of the world bank board of governors endorsed a package that included a $ 7.5 billion pa id- in capital increase for the i br d .
humanity ’ s success in reducing poverty is an extraordinary achievement , and one that we are far too retic ent about acknowledging .
what if china ’ s economy does indeed come cr ashing down , with its growth rate plunging into low single dig its , or even negative territory , as would be the case in most crisis economies ?
you can lead a horse to liquidity , but you can ’ t make it drink .
would it even be different ?
f lim sy ideas thrive in the absence of a viable alternative .
in sudan , journalists are using this connectivity to save lives .
given the complexity of assessing how domestic regulations might impede trade , especially compared to judging whether a tariff has been correctly applied , the wto needed effective dispute- settlement mechanisms , with members agreeing to binding arbitration .
a storm will surely come , and when it does , we will be poorly prepared for the delu ge .
it goes beyond creating open markets for goods and services to include increased immigration ( in the us and europe ) , harmon izing regulations ( the ambition of the tpp and the ttip ) , and intrusive adjudic ation of domestic policies ( the invest or- settlement procedures under nafta and the tpp ) .
no matter how grand the par ade , he can not hide the truth : russia ’ s days as a superpower are in the past .
social mobility declined .
and other chinese internet and financial giants such as alibaba , tencent , and h ony capital , as well as state-owned companies such as the china film group , have invested tens of billions of dollars in us film ventures .
and how will we collectively preserve the global values embodied in the un charter , the bretton woods institutions , and the universal declaration of human rights ?
it is also consistent with the critique of former premier wen jiabao , who in march 2007 famously warned of a chinese economy that was becoming increasingly “ unstable , unbalanced , un coordinated , and [ ultimately ] unsustainable . ”
yet , with chinese president xi jinping ’ s visit to trump ’ s florida estate earlier this month , it seems that the status quo in the bilateral relationship – crucial for global trade , growth , and stability – will be maintained .
whether it ’ s the yahoo ! c af eter ia ( now more inviting and more frequ ented with the advent of free food ) , or the h alls of the plug & play startup acceler ator , proximity matters .
indeed , since 2008 , greece ’ s gdp has shrunk by almost 25 % .
this is related to the final document ’ s most significant lac una : political reform .
that makes the subsequent decline in the ratio an inaccurate measure with which to determine the negative impact on economic performance .
here is jean- luc  mé len ch on , who , having finished fourth in the 2017 presidential election won by emmanuel macron , is desperately seeking a new following .
in the central region of mar ib , home to the oil and gas facilities that yemen relies on for foreign currency , several tribes have vowed to fight the hou this .
with the sun quickly setting on the saleh era , the president is out of options .
the un ’ s own calls to accelerate momentum at the launch of the 5 00- day coun t down to the mdgs ’ exp ir y highlight the fact that inequality , maternal mortality from childbirth , lack of universal education , and environmental degradation remain serious challenges .
the alarm bell was first run g in 1992 at the earth summit in rio de janeiro ; but over the last generation , little was done to contain emissions .
since these two initial studies , many other groups , including ours , have confirmed and documented many more cn vs in other individuals studied .
even here , behind prison bars and 2 4- hour surveillance of the type that he experienced for so long , i can con j ure the warm th of his broad smile , mer ry eyes , and those color ful hawa i ian- style shir ts that he wor e with such panac he .
the roots of the current unrest extend back more than a decade , to former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’ s first electoral victory in 2001 .
those who see in his patriotic rhetoric a desire to wh ite wash history miss his real concern : economic revival is meaningless if it does not secure japan ’ s position as a leading asian power .
in the few short months since the peace deal was reached , filip ino and foreign investment has been flowing into the island .
the problem begins in abe ’ s own domain – politics .
abe will make this clear when he delivers the key note address in singapore at this year ’ s sh angr i la dialogue , the annual meeting of asian military and civilian military leaders .
it has even been suggested that she made the decision to purge her husband .
as a hi has now admitted that the soldier ’ s conf essions were unfounded , and has dis av owed the core supporting evidence for the articles .
if the chinese government fails to reverse this trend , a financial crisis – in one form or another – will become inevitable .
whatever the mechanism , the costs of sterilization are very high .
on the other hand , the government has introduced some “ mini- stimulus ” measures , ranging from exemptions for “ micro firms ” from business and sales taxes to pressure on banks to increase loans to exporters .
to be sure , china over came a similar challenge in its public sector from 1998 to 2001 .
to be sure , gdp provides valuable information about a country ’ s production , expenditure , and income streams , as well as the flow of goods across borders .
the alternative is another decade of only incremental progress , which will put us on a catastrophic path toward 3 °c warming within the lifetime of today ’ s children .
governments must also ensure that services are accessible and affordable .
zimbabwe ’ s upcoming elections , scheduled for march 29 , offer both fear and hope to the millions trapped in or trying to escape the country ’ s hel l ish conditions .
first , as a key player in bringing china into the world trade organization , zo ell ick is a proven inter nationalist in an american administration where inter nationalists have sometimes seemed like an endangered species .
“ we can ’ t waste time , ” he says .
