19 29 or 1989 ?
paris – as the economic crisis deep ens and wid ens , the world has been searching for historical analog ies to help us understand what has been happening .
at the start of the crisis , many people lik ened it to 1982 or 1973 , which was reassuring , because both d ates ref er to classical cyclical down turns .
today , the mood is much gr imm er , with refer ences to 19 29 and 193 1 beginning to ab ound , even if some governments continue to behave as if the crisis was more classical than excep tional .
the tendency is either excessive restraint ( europe ) or a di ff usion of the effort ( the united states ) .
europe is being cau tious in the name of avoiding debt and defending the euro , whereas the us has moved on many fronts in order not to waste an ideal opportunity to implement badly needed structural reforms .
for ge o- strateg ists , however , the year that naturally comes to mind , in both politics and economics , is 1989 .
of course , the fall of the house of leh man brothers has nothing to do with the fall of the berlin wall .
indeed , on the surface it seems to be its perfect anti thesis : the collapse of a wall symbol izing oppression and artificial divisions versus the collapse of a seemingly inde struc tible and reassuring institution of financial capitalism .
yet 2008-2009 , like 1989 , may very well cor respond to an e po ch al change , whose un fol ding consequences will be felt for decades .
and what happens in 2009 may jeopardi ze some of the positive results of 1989 , including the peaceful re unification of europe and the triumph of democratic principles over nationalist , if not x en ophob ic , tend encies .
in 1989 , liberal democracy triumph ed over the socialist ideology in carn ated and promoted by the soviet bloc .
for many of his supporters , it was president ronald reagan who , with his deliberate escal ation of the arms race , pushed the soviet economy to the brink , thereby fully demonstr ating the superiority of liberal societies and free markets .
of course , there are obvious differences between 1989 and now .
first , and perhaps above all , the revolutions of 1989 and the subsequent collapse of the soviet union put an end to global bi pol arity .
by contrast , 2009 is likely to pa ve the way to a new form of bi pol arity , but with china substitu ting for the soviet union .
second , whereas democracy and market capitalism appeared as clear – if more fragile than expected – winners in 1989 , it is difficult in 2009 , with the spread of the global crisis , to distinguish winners from losers .
everyone seems to be a los er , even if some are more affected than others .
yet , history is unfair , and the us , despite its greater responsibility for today ’ s global crisis , may emerge in better shape than most countries from the mor ass .
in better shape , but not alone .
as a visiting professor at harvard and mit , i am getting a good pre view of what the world could look like when the crisis finally pass es .
one sen ses something like the making of an americ an- asian dominated universe .
from the incre di ble media lab at mit to the mathematics and economics depar tments at harvard , asians – chinese and indians , in particular – are everywhere , like the roman s in ath ens in the first century b c : full of admir ation for those from whom they were learning so much , and whom they would overcome in the coming decades .
but before this new order appears , the world may be faced with spreading disorder , if not outright chaos .
what , for example , will happen to a country as central and vulnerable as egypt when hundred of thousands of egyptians working in the gulf are forced to return to their hom eland as a result of the crisis in the oil- producing countries ?
when the rich get less rich , the poor get poorer .
and what about the foreign workers who have reached for the “ european dream ” and are now faced with potential explo sions of x en ophobia in europe ’ s supposedly open countries ?
the consequences of 1989 ended up being less enduring than many observers , including me , would have assumed .
we can only hope that , in the end , the consequences of 2009 similarly prove to be far less dramatic than we now – intu iti vely and in our historical ref le x es – feel them to be .
one hundred years of in ep titu de
berlin – the global financial and economic crisis that began in 2008 was the greatest economic st res s- test since the great depression , and the greatest challenge to social and political systems since world war ii .
it not only put financial markets and currencies at risk ; it also exposed serious regulatory and governance shortcomings that have yet to be fully addressed .
in fact , the 2008 crisis will most likely be remembered as a water shed moment , but not because it led to reforms that strengthened economic resilience and removed vulnerabilities .
on the contrary , leaders ’ failure to dis c ern , much less act on , the lessons of the great recession may open the way for a series of fresh crises , economic and otherwise , in the coming decades .
however serious those crises turn out to be , historians a century from now will likely despair at our short sigh tedness .
they will note that analysts and regulators were narrowly focused on fixing the financial system by strengthening national oversight regimes .
while this was a worthy goal , historians will point out , it was far from the only imperative .
to prepare the world to confront the challenges posed by globalization and technological development in a way that supports sustainable and equitable growth , governance institutions and regulations at both the national and international levels must be dr as tically improved .
yet not nearly enough has been invested in this effort .
worse , because the partial fix es to the financial system will enable even more globalization , they will end up making matters worse , as str ain on already- inadequate governance and regulatory frameworks increases , not only in finance , but also in other economic and technological fields .
meanwhile , enormous financial investments focused on securing a higher rate of return are likely to fuel technological innovation , further st res sing regulatory systems in finance and beyond .
major technological advances fueled by cheap money can cause markets to change so fast that policy and institutional change can not keep up .
and new markets can emerge that offer huge pay offs for early adop ters or investors , who benefit from remaining several steps ahead of national and international regulators .
this is what happened in the run-up to the 2008 crisis .
new technology- enabled financial instruments created opportunities for some to make huge amounts of money .
but regulators were unable to keep up with the innovations , which ended up generating risks that affected the entire economy .
this points to a fundamental difference between global crises of the twenty-first century and , say , the great depression in the 1930s or , indeed , any past stock -market cr ash es .
because of the financial sector ’ s growth , more actors benefit from under- regulation and weak governance in the short term , making today ’ s crises more difficult to prevent .
compl icating matters further , the systems affected by today ’ s crises extend well beyond any one regulatory body ’ s jurisdiction .
that makes crises far un ru lier , and their consequences – including their long-term influence on societies and politics – more difficult to predict .
