1929 or 1989 ?
paris – as the economic crisis deepens and wid ens , the world has been searching for historical analogies to help us understand what has been happening .
at the start of the crisis , many people lik ened it to 1982 or 1973 , which was reassuring , because both dates refer to classical cyclical downturns .
today , the mood is much gr imm er , with references to 1929 and 1931 beginning to abound , even if some governments continue to behave as if the crisis was more classical than exceptional .
the tendency is either excessive restraint ( europe ) or a diffusion of the effort ( the united states ) .
europe is being cautious in the name of avoiding debt and defending the euro , whereas the us has moved on many fronts in order not to waste an ideal opportunity to implement badly needed structural reforms .
for geo- strategists , however , the year that naturally comes to mind , in both politics and economics , is 1989 .
of course , the fall of the house of lehman brothers has nothing to do with the fall of the berlin wall .
indeed , on the surface it seems to be its perfect anti thesis : the collapse of a wall symbol izing oppression and artificial divisions versus the collapse of a seemingly inde struc tible and reassuring institution of financial capitalism .
yet 2008-2009 , like 1989 , may very well cor respond to an epo ch al change , whose unfolding consequences will be felt for decades .
and what happens in 2009 may jeopardize some of the positive results of 1989 , including the peaceful reunification of europe and the triumph of democratic principles over nationalist , if not xenophobic , tendencies .
in 1989 , liberal democracy triumph ed over the socialist ideology incar n ated and promoted by the soviet bloc .
for many of his supporters , it was president ronald reagan who , with his deliberate escalation of the arms race , pushed the soviet economy to the brink , thereby fully demonstrating the superiority of liberal societies and free markets .
of course , there are obvious differences between 1989 and now .
first , and perhaps above all , the revolutions of 1989 and the subsequent collapse of the soviet union put an end to global bi polarity .
by contrast , 2009 is likely to pave the way to a new form of bi polarity , but with china substitu ting for the soviet union .
second , whereas democracy and market capitalism appeared as clear – if more fragile than expected – winners in 1989 , it is difficult in 2009 , with the spread of the global crisis , to distinguish winners from losers .
everyone seems to be a loser , even if some are more affected than others .
yet , history is unfair , and the us , despite its greater responsibility for today ’ s global crisis , may emerge in better shape than most countries from the mor ass .
in better shape , but not alone .
as a visiting professor at harvard and mit , i am getting a good pre view of what the world could look like when the crisis finally passes .
one senses something like the making of an american- asian dominated universe .
from the incredi ble media lab at mit to the mathematics and economics departments at harvard , asians – chinese and indians , in particular – are everywhere , like the roman s in athens in the first century bc : full of admiration for those from whom they were learning so much , and whom they would overcome in the coming decades .
but before this new order appears , the world may be faced with spreading disorder , if not outright chaos .
what , for example , will happen to a country as central and vulnerable as egypt when hundred of thousands of egyptians working in the gulf are forced to return to their homeland as a result of the crisis in the oil-producing countries ?
when the rich get less rich , the poor get poorer .
and what about the foreign workers who have reached for the “ european dream ” and are now faced with potential explo sions of xenophobia in europe ’ s supposedly open countries ?
the consequences of 1989 ended up being less enduring than many observers , including me , would have assumed .
we can only hope that , in the end , the consequences of 2009 similarly prove to be far less dramatic than we now – intu itively and in our historical reflex es – feel them to be .
one hundred years of in ep titude
berlin – the global financial and economic crisis that began in 2008 was the greatest economic stres s- test since the great depression , and the greatest challenge to social and political systems since world war ii .
it not only put financial markets and currencies at risk ; it also exposed serious regulatory and governance shortcomings that have yet to be fully addressed .
in fact , the 2008 crisis will most likely be remembered as a watershed moment , but not because it led to reforms that strengthened economic resilience and removed vulnerabilities .
on the contrary , leaders ’ failure to discern , much less act on , the lessons of the great recession may open the way for a series of fresh crises , economic and otherwise , in the coming decades .
however serious those crises turn out to be , historians a century from now will likely despair at our short sigh tedness .
they will note that analysts and regulators were narrowly focused on fixing the financial system by strengthening national oversight regimes .
while this was a worthy goal , historians will point out , it was far from the only imperative .
to prepare the world to confront the challenges posed by globalization and technological development in a way that supports sustainable and equitable growth , governance institutions and regulations at both the national and international levels must be drastically improved .
yet not nearly enough has been invested in this effort .
worse , because the partial fixes to the financial system will enable even more globalization , they will end up making matters worse , as strain on already- inadequate governance and regulatory frameworks increases , not only in finance , but also in other economic and technological fields .
meanwhile , enormous financial investments focused on securing a higher rate of return are likely to fuel technological innovation , further stres sing regulatory systems in finance and beyond .
major technological advances fueled by cheap money can cause markets to change so fast that policy and institutional change can not keep up .
and new markets can emerge that offer huge pay offs for early adop ters or investors , who benefit from remaining several steps ahead of national and international regulators .
this is what happened in the run-up to the 2008 crisis .
new technology- enabled financial instruments created opportunities for some to make huge amounts of money .
but regulators were unable to keep up with the innovations , which ended up generating risks that affected the entire economy .
this points to a fundamental difference between global crises of the twenty-first century and , say , the great depression in the 1930s or , indeed , any past stock-market crashes .
because of the financial sector ’ s growth , more actors benefit from under- regulation and weak governance in the short term , making today ’ s crises more difficult to prevent .
complicating matters further , the systems affected by today ’ s crises extend well beyond any one regulatory body ’ s jurisdiction .
that makes crises far unru lier , and their consequences – including their long-term influence on societies and politics – more difficult to predict .
the next crises – made more likely by rising nationalism and a growing disregard for science and fact- based policymaking – may be financial , but they could also impl icate real ms as varied as migration , trade , cyberspace , pollution , and climate change .
in all of these areas , national and international governance institutions are weak or incomplete , and there are few independent actors , such as watchdog groups , demanding transparency and accountability .
this makes it harder not only to prevent crises – not least because it creates opportunities for actors to game the system and shir k responsibility – but also to respond to them .
the 2008 crisis cast a harsh spotlight on just how bad we are at responding quickly to disasters , especially those fueled by fragmented governance .
to be sure , as the her tie school ’ s 2018 governance report shows , there have been some improvements in preparing for and managing crises .
but we must become more alert to how developments in a wide range of fields – from finance to digital technologies and climate change – can el ude the governance capacities of national and international institutions .
we should be running crisis scenarios and preparing emergency plans for upheaval in all of these fields , and taking stronger steps to mitigate risks , including by managing debt levels , which today remain much higher in the advanced economies than they were before the 2008 crisis .
moreover , we should ensure that we provide international institutions with the needed resources and responsibilities .
and by punishing those who exacerbate risks for the sake of their own interests , we would strengthen the legitimacy of global governance and the institutions that are meant to conduct it .
as it stands , inadequate cross-border coordination and enforcement of international agreements is a major impediment to crisis prevention and management .
yet , far from addressing this weakness , the world is reviving an outdated model of national sovereignty that makes crises of various kinds more likely .
unless we change course soon , the world of 2 1 18 will have much reason to regard us with scor n .
what failed in 2008 ?
berkeley – to solve a problem , it is not enough to know what to do .
you actually have to implement the solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you did not know quite as much as you thought .
that is the message of two recent books that , together , tell you everything you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things have yet to be done .
the first book is the shifts and the shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who begins by catal og uing the major shifts that set the stage for the economic disaster that continues to shape the world today .
his starting point is the huge rise in wealth among the world ’ s richest 0.1 % and 0.0 1 % and the consequ ent pressure for people , governments , and companies to take on increasingly unsustainable levels of debt .
as a result , markets were dereg ulated , making it easier to trade assets that were perceived to be safe , but were in fact not .
as a result , systemic risk prolifer ated beyond central bankers ’ wil dest imagination .
untested – and ultimately in correct – assumptions created a policymaking environment defined by what can only be called hubris .
officials underestimated tail risks .
they set inflation targets at around 2 % – leaving little room for maneuver when the water got ch op py .
and , most aud ac iously of all , the european union introduced the euro as a common currency .
indeed , wrong headed policymaking continued long after the crisis began .
politicians responded to worsening economic conditions by he wing as closely as possible to failed prescriptions , making sure to do no more than absolutely necessary to address the biggest economic disaster since the great depression .
wolf ’ s prescription for countering the crisis is simple , smart , and un ass ail able .
in the short term , he suggests that countries with reserve currencies spend more ( especially to finance public-sector investments ) and issue more debt .
their central banks , he argues , should raise inflation targets to 3 % or even 4 % per year .
over the medium term , according to wolf , countries need to put in place regulatory measures that lower debt levels and discourage over leveraging .
the eurozone , too , must resolve its internal contradictions , either by dis ban ding or by introducing “ a minimum set of institutions and policies ” that allow the monetary union to function properly .
wolf ’ s long-term solutions include tackling inequality , “ more global regulation , ” a greater degree of “ freedom for individual countries to craft their own responses , ” and economic analysis that is less in thr all to the free-market ideologues that led us into the crisis in the first place .
and yet , as recommend able as wolf ’ s proposals may be , little has been done to implement them .
the reasons why are found in the second book : hall of mirrors , by my friend , teacher , and patron , barry eichengreen .
eichengreen traces our tepid response to the crisis to the triumph of monetar ist economists , the discipl es of milton friedman , over their keynesian and min sky ite peers – at least when it comes to interpretations of the causes and consequences of the great depression .
when the 2008 financial crisis erupted , policymakers tried to apply friedman ’ s proposed solutions to the great depression .
unfortunately , this turned out to be the wrong thing to do , as the monetar ist interpretation of the great depression was , to put it bluntly , wrong in significant respects and radically incomplete .
the resulting policies were enough to prevent the post-2008 recession from developing into a full-blown depression ; but that partial success turned out to be a pyr rh ic victory , for it allowed politicians to declare that the crisis had been overcome , and that it was time to embrace austerity and focus on structural reform .
the result is today ’ s stagnant economy , marked by anemic growth that threatens to become the new normal .
the united states and europe are on track to have thrown away 10 % of their potential wealth , while the failure to strengthen financial-sector regulation has left the world economy exposed to the risk of another major crisis .
wolf and eichengreen would agree that the main shortcomings that led to the 2008 financial crisis – and that continue to underpin our inadequate response to it – are intellectual .
indeed , the only true lesson of the crisis so far seems to be that its lessons will never truly be learned .
a comeback strategy for europe
stockhol m / madrid – when pope francis addressed the european parliament last november , he compared the european union to a grand mother – pleasant and rich with experience , but lacking the vitality and energy of the past .
it is high time , francis argued , that eu leaders shed their do zy image , recognize the strategic challenges that europe faces , and forge a clear policy for tackling them .
admittedly , the pope ’ s character ization was alarm ingly accurate in some respects .
but , despite its seeming l ass itude , europe retains significant strengths .
but the world is changing : the asia-pacific region is increasingly influencing global developments , economic and otherwise .
the trans-pacific partnership – by which the united states and 11 other countries would create a mega-regional free-trade zone – would most likely accelerate this shift ( all the more so if china eventually jo ins ) .
though the tpp faces no shortage of hurdles to clear before an agreement is fin alized , its potential to augment asia ’ s economic power can not be underestimated .
europe must work to secure its position in the new world order – beginning by enhancing its own trade and investment ties with the us .
the problem is that , as the tpp negotiations progress , talks on the eu- us transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) have become so deeply mired in domestic controversi es that the entire project may well be s cutt led .
business leaders on both sides of the atlantic are convinced that a successful ttip agreement would bring substantial economic benefits – a perception that many studies reinforce .
yet trivial issues – for example , the use of chlor inated chicken and settlements of investor disputes – continue to dominate the debate .
the ttip ’ s goal is to unleash the power of the transatlantic economy , which remains by far the world ’ s largest and wealthiest market , accounting for three-quarters of global financial activity and more than half of world trade .
( if the ttip was opened to other economies – such as turkey , mexico , and canada – the benefits would be even greater . )
even more compelling than the benefits of achieving an agreement , though , are the potentially catastrophic consequences of failure .
for starters , a breakdown of ttip talks would give considerable ammunition to those in the united kingdom who advocate withdrawal from the eu ; conversely , if the ttip were implemented , the uk would be unwise – and thus unlikely – to leave .
moreover , the perception that the eu ’ s internal squ ab bles had led it to squ ander a strategic opportunity would probably drive the us to accelerate its disengagement from the continent .
and russian president vladimir putin would invariably regard the eu ’ s failure as a major opportunity to exert more influence over parts of europe .
all of this contributes to a starkly fundamental strategic risk : if the ttip st alls or collapses , while the tpp moves forward and succeeds , the global balance will tip strongly in asia ’ s favor – and europe will have few options , if any , for regaining its economic and geopolitical influence .
when the ttip was first proposed , europe seemed to recognize its value .
indeed , it was the eu that pushed the us , which initially doubted europe ’ s commitment , to launch the negotiation process in june 2013 .
the ambition was to complete the negotiations on “ one tank of gas . ”
no one wanted to endure protracted talks – or the associated political pain .
but eu leaders essentially abandoned the project , seemingly confir ming american fears .
trade negotiators struggled to make headway , while anti-globalization groups seized control of the public discourse , presenting the ttip as a threat to everything from europe ’ s democracy to its health .
this is dangerously inaccurate talk , and eu leaders must prevent it from gaining any more traction by making the strategic case for the agreement .
and they must revive their commitment to conclude the talks successfully in 2015 .
this is not to say that resolving the remaining issues in the ttip negotiations will be simple .
but establishing a trade agreement , especially one that entails so many regulatory issues , is always difficult , as it must account for the complexity and chan ge ability of modern economies .
the fact is that the challenges inherent in completing the ttip are no more intractable than those that eu leaders have faced in the last few years of crisis .
when the ttip negotiations resume next month , eu leaders must push for genuine progress , with the goal of completing a deal by the end of the year .
the good news is that the recent midterm elections in the us might have improved their chances .
president barack obama now might get so-called fast- track negotiating authority from congress .
if he does , congress would simply approve or reject any negotiated agreement , rather than picking it apart .
that is why europe ’ s leaders have no time to waste .
they must seize economic opportunity – and avert strategic disaster .
the year that ended an epo ch ?
madrid – as 2016 comes to an end , the outlook for 2017 is sh rou ded in uncertainty .
tensions in the middle east are rising , and populist movements have appeared in europe and the united states .
in the middle east , the tragic conflict in syria continues , despite several fruit less attempts at rapprochement , which were mar red by the fundamental disagreement about syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s future role in any peace process or political transition .
meanwhile , over the past week , syrian government troops , backed by russia and iran , have re taken almost all of aleppo – once syria ’ s largest city , now utterly devastated by the war .
the world ’ s priority for the coming year must be to achieve peace in syria , which will require close regional and international cooperation .
on december 27 , iran , russia , and turkey will hold a tri parti te meeting in moscow to discuss a political solution for the syria conflict .
that meeting , if it takes place , is likely to be overshad owed by the fallout from the assassination of russia ’ s ambassador to turkey .
but it is nothing if not surprising that these parties , and not the us and the european union , would be negotiating such an agreement .
one positive development this year came in march , when the eu and turkey signed an agreement to address the refugee crisis .
turkey has now taken in some three million syrian refugees since the beginning of the conflict .
although eu- turkey relations are currently not at their best , the dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their common interests , which are based not only on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and the collective fight against terrorism .
european politics next year , meanwhile , will be consumed by the brexit negotiations .
in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering the formal procedure for withdrawal from the eu .
the challenge will be to reach an agreement that guarantees the wellbeing of future eu- uk relations .
this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set a tim eline of only 18 months .
while much remains uncertain , what is clear is that if the uk wants to retain access to the european single market , it will have to accept the eu ’ s four freedoms , including the free movement of workers .
in 2017 , several european countries will hold general elections , and there is a risk that isolationist , anti-european populist movements will make a strong showing .
for the eu to lose a country as militarily and economically important as the uk is bad enough ; but to lose a founding eu member state , such as france , would be tragic .
fortunately , many europeans ’ views toward the eu actually improved in the aftermath of the brexit referendum .
but this will not less en the challenge for eu governments in the year ahead .
they must unite societies divided by powerful global forces , such as globalization and rapid technological innovation .
the brexit referendum , followed by donald trump ’ s victory in the us presidential election , signaled the rise of populism in the west .
but now that trump is filling his cabinet with oligarchs and former military men , we have reason to doubt that he will keep his promise to govern without the washington “ establishment . ”
trump ’ s incoming administration is full of unknow ns , but there can be no doubt that his rejection of multilateral institutions will endanger international efforts to cooperate on solutions to the world ’ s biggest problems .
this holds peril for us- eu relations .
in previous years , the paris climate agreement and the nuclear agreement with iran were ra ys of light in a world closing itself off to multilateralism .
now more than ever , we need the kind of dialogue that builds strategic trust between great powers .
and yet , trump ’ s statements casting doubt on continued us adherence to a “ one china ” policy vis-à-vis taiwan could severely damage relations between the world ’ s two largest economies .
similarly , notwithstanding the pro- russian lean ings of some among trump ’ s team , the us- russian relationship also lacks strategic trust , owing to russia ’ s military intervention in syria , its invasion of eastern ukraine , and its alleged interference in the us election .
the coming year will be particularly important for europe .
relations between the eu and the us must remain strong , rooted in mutual respect for democracy , freedom , and human rights .
after a turbulent 2016 , and with little positive news in international politics , 2017 is shaping up to be a year of challenges and uncertainty .
but the biggest uncertainty of all is whether this is simply the end of another year , or the end of a geopolitical epo ch .
another slow year for the global economy
washington , dc – last april , the international monetary fund projected that the world economy would grow by 3.5 % in 2015 .
in the ensuing months , that forecast was steadily whit tled down , reaching 3.1 % in october .
but the imf continues to insist – as it has , with almost ban al predictability , for the last seven years – that next year will be better .
but it is almost certainly wrong yet again .
for starters , world trade is growing at an anemic annual rate of 2 % , compared to 8 % from 2003 to 2007 .
whereas trade growth during those heady years far exceeded that of world gdp , which averaged 4.5 % , lately , trade and gdp growth rates have been about the same .
even if gdp growth out stri ps growth in trade this year , it will likely amount to no more than 2.7 % .
the question is why .
according to christ ina and david romer of the university of california , berkeley , the after shocks of modern financial crises – that is , since world war ii – fade after 2-3 years .
the harvard economists carmen reinhart and kenneth rogoff say that it takes five years for a country to di g itself out of a financial crisis .
and , indeed , the financial dis locations of 2007-2008 have largely rec eded .
so what accounts for the sluggish economic recovery ?
one popular explanation lies in the fu z zy notion of “ secular stagnation ” : long-term depressed demand for goods and services is undermining incentives to invest and hire .
but demand would remain weak only if people lacked confidence in the future .
the only logical explanation for this enduring lack of confidence , as northwestern university ’ s robert gordon has pain st ak ingly documented and argued , is slow productivity growth .
before the crisis – and especially from 2003 to 2007 – slow productivity growth was being obs cured by an illusory sense of prosperity in much of the world .
in some countries – notably , the united states , spain , and ireland – rising real-estate prices , speculative construction , and financial risk-taking were mutually reinforcing .
at the same time , countries were amp lifying one another ’ s growth through trade .
central to the global boom was china , the rising giant that flooded the world with cheap exports , putting a li d on global inflation .
equally important , china imported a huge volume of commodities , thereby bolstering many african and latin american economies , and purchased german cars and machines , enabling europe ’ s largest economy to keep its regional supply chains hum ming .
this dynamic reversed around march 2008 , when the us rescued its fif th-largest investment bank , bear ster ns , from collapse .
whereas in the boom years , world trade had spread the b oun ty , it was now spreading the malaise .
as each country ’ s gdp growth slowed , so did its imports , causing its trading partners ’ growth to slow as well .
the us economy began to emerge from its recession in the second half of 2009 , thanks largely to aggressive monetary policy and steps to stabilize the financial system .
eurozone policymakers , by contrast , rejected monetary stimulus and implemented fiscal austerity measures , while ignoring the deepening distress of their banks .
the eurozone thus pushed the world into a second global recession .
just when that recession seemed to have run its course , emerging economies began to unravel .
for years , observers had been tou ting the governance and growth-enhancing reforms that these countries ’ leaders had supposedly introduced .
in october 2012 , the imf celebrated emerging economies ’ “ resilience . ”
as if on c ue , that fac ade began to crum ble , revealing an inconvenient truth : factors like high commodity prices and massive capital inflows had been conce aling serious economic weaknesses , while legitim izing a culture of gar ish inequality and rampant corruption .
these problems are now being compounded by the growth slowdown in china , the ful cr um of global trade .
and the worst is yet to come .
china ’ s huge industrial overcapacity and property glut needs to be wound down ; the hubris driving its global acquisitions must be re ined in ; and its corruption networks have to be dismantled .
in short , the factors that dragged down the global economy in 2015 will persist – and in some cases even intensify – in the new year .
emerging economies will remain weak .
the eurozone , having enjoyed a temporary repr ieve from austerity , will be constrained by list less global trade .
rising interest rates on corporate bonds port end slower growth in the us .
china ’ s collapsing asset values could trigger financial turbulence .
and policymakers are ad rift , with little political leverage to stem these trends .
the imf should stop forecasting renewed growth and issue a warning that the global economy will remain weak and vulnerable unless world leaders act ener ge tically to spur innovation and growth .
such an effort is long overdue .
trump ian uncertainty
new york – every january , i try to craft a forecast for the coming year .
economic forecasting is notoriously difficult ; but , notwithstanding the truth expressed in harry truman ’ s request for a one- armed economist ( who wouldn ’ t be able to say “ on the other hand ” ) , my record has been credible .
in recent years , i correctly fores aw that , in the absence of stronger fiscal stimulus ( which was not forthcoming in either europe or the united states ) , recovery from the great recession of 2008 would be slow .
in making these forecasts , i have relied more on analysis of underlying economic forces than on complex econom etr ic models .
for example , at the beginning of 2016 , it seemed clear that the deficiencies of global aggregate demand that have been manifest for the last several years were unlikely to change dramatically .
thus , i thought that forecasters of a stronger recovery were looking at the world through ro se- tin ted glass es . economic developments unfolded much as i anticipated .
not so the political events of 2016 .
i had been writing for years that unless growing inequality – especially in the us , but also in many countries throughout the world – was addressed , there would be political consequences .
these results were fores had owed by a study last year , by anne case and ang us de aton , which showed that life expectancy was on the decline for large segments of the population – including america ’ s so-called angry men of the rust belt .
but , with the incomes of the bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and declining for a significant proportion ) , the health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country .
and while america might be at the extreme of this trend , things were little better elsewhere .
but , if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences , their form and timing were far less obvious .
why did the backlash in the us come just when the economy seemed to be on the mend , rather than earlier ?
and why did it manifest itself in a lur ch to the right ?
after all , it was the republicans who had blocked assistance to those losing their jobs as a result of the globalization they pushed as sid uously . it was the republicans who , in 26 states , refused to allow the expansion of medicaid , thereby denying health insurance to those at the bottom .
and why was the victor somebody who made his living from taking advantage of others , openly admitted not paying his fair share of taxes , and made tax avoidance a point of pride ?
donald trump gras ped the spirit of the time : things weren ’ t going well , and many voters wanted change .
now they will get it : there will be no business as usual . but seldom has there been more uncertainty .
which policies trump will pursue remains unknown , to say nothing of which will succeed or what the consequences will be .
trump seems hel l- bent on having a trade war .
but how will china and mexico respond ?
trump may well understand that what he proposes will violate world trade organization rules , but he may also know that it will take a long time for the wto to rule against him .
and by then , america ’ s trade account may have been re balanced .
but two can play that game : china can take similar actions , though its response is likely to be more subtle .
if a trade war were to break out , what would happen ?
trump may have reason to think he could win ; after all , china is more dependent on exports to the us than the us is on exports to china , which gives the us an advantage .
but a trade war is not a zero-sum game . the us stands to lose as well .
china may be more effective in targeting its retaliation to cause acute political pain .
and the chinese may be in a better position to respond to us attempts to inflict pain on them than the us is to respond to the pain that china might inflict on americans .
it ’ s anybody ’ s guess who can stand the pain better .
will it be the us , where ordinary citizens have already suffered for so long , or china , which , despite troubled times , has managed to generate growth in excess of 6 % ?
more broadly , the republic an / trump agenda , with its tax cuts even more weighted toward the rich than the standard g op recipe would imply , is based on the idea of trick le- down prosperity – a continuation of the reagan era ’ s supply-side economics , which never actually worked .
fi re- breathing rhetoric , or ra ving three a . m. tweets , may assu age the anger of those left behind by the reagan revolution , at least for a while .
but for how long ?
and what happens then ?
trump might like to repeal the ordinary laws of economics , as he goes about his version of vo odo o economics . but he can ’ t .
still , as the world ’ s largest economy leads the way into uncharted political waters in 2017 and beyond , it would be fool har dy for a mere mortal to attempt a forecast , other than to state the obvious : the waters will almost certainly be ch op py , and many – if not most – pund it ships will sink along the way .
five years after the attacks on the twin tow ers in new york and the pentagon in washington , “ 9/11 ” is no longer a mere date .
it has entered the history books as the beginning of something new , a new era perhaps , but in any case a time of change .
the terrorist bombings in madrid and london and elsewhere will also be remembered ; but it is “ 9/11 ” that has become the catch phrase , almost like “ august 1914 . ”
but was it really a war that started on september 11 , 2001 ?
not all are happy about this american notion .
during the hey day of irish terrorism in the uk , successive british governments went out of their way not to concede to the ira the notion that a war was being waged .
“ war ” would have meant acceptance of the terrorists as legitimate enemies , in a sense as equals in a bloody contest for which there are accepted rules of engagement .
this is neither a correct description nor a useful termin ology for terrorist acts , which are more correctly described as criminal .
by calling them war – and naming an opponent , usually al-qaeda and its leader , osama bin laden – the united states government has justified domestic changes that , before the 9/11 attacks , would have been unacceptable in any free country .
most of these changes were embodied in the so-called “ us a patri ot act . ”
though some of the changes simply involved administrative regulations , the patri ot act ’ s overall effect was to erode the great pillars of liberty , such as hab eas cor p us , the right to recourse to an independent court whenever the state depriv es an individual of his freedom .
from an early date , the prison camp at guantánamo bay in cuba became the symbol of something un heard of : the arrest without trial of “ illegal combatants ” who are deprived of all human rights .
the world now wonders how many more of these non- human humans are there in how many places .
for everyone else , a kind of state of emergency was proclaimed that has allowed state interference in essential civil rights .
controls at borders have become an or deal for many , and police persecution now burdens quite a few .
a climate of fear has made life hard for anyone who looks suspicious or acts suspic iously , notably for muslims .
such restrictions on freedom did not meet with much public opposition when they were adopted .
on the contrary , by and large it was the critics , not the supporters , of these measures who found themselves in trouble .
in britain , where prime minister tony blair supported the us attitude entirely , the government introduced similar measures and even offered a new theory .
blair was the first to argue that security is the first freedom .
in other words , liberty is not the right of individuals to define their own lives , but the right of the state to restrict individual freedom in the name of a security that only the state can define .
this is the beginning of a new authoritarianism .
the problem exists in all countries affected by the threat of terrorism , though in many it has not become quite as specific .
in most countries of continental europe , “ 9/11 ” has remained an american date .
there is even a debate – and indeed some evidence – concerning the question of whether involvement in the “ war against terrorism ” has actually increased the threat of terrorist acts .
germans certainly use this argument to stay out of the action wherever possible .
this stance , however , has not prevented the spread of something for which a german word is used in other languages , too : ang st .
a diffuse anxiety is gaining ground .
people feel uneasy and worried , especially when traveling .
thus , 9/11 has meant , directly or indirectly , a great shock , both psychologically and to our political systems .
while terrorism is fought in the name of democracy , the fight has in fact led to a distinct weakening of democracy , owing to official legislation and popular ang st .
one of the worrying features of the 9/11 attacks is that it is hard to see their purpose beyond the perpetrators ’ resentment of the west and its ways .
but the west ’ s key features , democracy and the rule of law , have taken a far more severe bat tering at the hands of their defenders than by their attackers .
two steps , above all , are needed to restore confidence in liberty within the democracies affected by the legacy of 9/11 .
first , we must make certain that the relevant legislation to meet the challenge of terrorism is strictly temporary .
some of today ’ s restrictions on hab eas cor p us and civil liberties have sun set clauses restricting their validity ; all such rules should be re- examined by parliaments regularly .
second , and more importantly , our leaders must seek to calm , rather than exploit , public anxiety .
the terrorists with whom we are currently at “ war ” can not win , because their dark vision will never gain broad popular legitimacy .
that is all the more reason for democrats to stand tall in defending our values – first and foremost by acting in accordance with them .
9/11 in perspective
new york – it was a decade ago that 19 terrorists took control of four planes , fle w two into the twin tow ers of the world trade center , hit the pentagon with a third , and crashed the fourth in a field in pennsylvania after passengers resisted and made it impossible for the terrorists to complete their mal evolent mission .
in a matter of hours , more than 3,000 innocent people , mostly americans , but also people from 1 15 other countries , had their lives suddenly and violently taken from them .
september 11 , 2001 , was a terrible tragedy by any measure , but it was not a historical turning point .
it did not herald a new era of international relations in which terrorists with a global agenda prevailed , or in which such spectacular terrorist attacks became commonplace . on the contrary , 9/11 has not been replicated .
despite the attention devoted to the “ global war on terrorism , ” the most important developments of the last ten years have been the introduction and spread of innovative information technologies , globalization , the wars in iraq and afghanistan , and the political upheavals in the middle east .
as for the future , it is much more likely to be defined by the united states ’ need to put its economic house in order ; china ’ s trajectory within and beyond its borders ; and the ability of the world ’ s governments to cooperate on restoring economic growth , stemming the spread of nuclear weapons , and meeting energy and environmental challenges .
it is and would be wrong to make opposition to terrorism the centerpiece of what responsible governments do in the world .
terrorists continue to be out li ers with limited appeal at best .
they can destroy but not create .
it is worth noting that the people who went into the streets of cairo and damascus calling for change were not shou ting the slogans of al qaeda or supporting its agenda .
moreover , measures have been implemented to push back , successfully , against terrorists .
intelligence assets have been re directed . borders have been made more secure and societies more resilient .
international cooperation has increased markedly , in part because governments that can not agree on many things can agree on the need to cooperate in this area .
military force has played a role as well .
al qaeda lost its base in afghanistan when the taliban government that had provided it sanctuary was ousted from power .
osama bin - laden was finally found and killed by us special forces in the subur bs of islamabad .
drones – un man ned aircraft that are remotely steered – have proven to be effective in killing a significant number of terrorists , including many of the most important leaders .
weak governments can be made stronger ; governments that tolerate or support terrorism must be held accountable .
terrorists and terrorism can not be eliminated any more than we can rid the world of disease .
there will always be those who will resort to force against innocent men , women , and children in pursuit of political goals .
indeed , terrorists are advancing in some areas .
pakistan remains a sanctuary for al qaeda and some of the world ’ s other most dangerous terrorists .
a mixture of instability , government weakness , and ideology in countries such as yemen , libya , somalia , and nigeria are providing fertile territory for terrorists to organize , train , and mount operations – much as they did in afghanistan did a decade ago .
new groups constantly emerge from the ruins of old ones .
there is also a growing danger of homegrown terrorism .
we have seen it in great britain and the us .
the internet , one of the great inventions of the modern western world , has shown itself to be a weapon that can be used to incite and train those who wish to cause harm to that world .
the question raised in october 2003 by then us secretary of defense donald rumsfeld is no less relevant today : “ are we capturing , killing , or deterring and dissu ading more terrorists every day than the mad r ass as and the radical clerics are recruiting , training , and deploying against us ? ”
all things being equal , we probably are .
but even small terrorist successes are costly in terms of lives , money , and making open societies less so .
what is to be done ?
alas , there is no single or silver bullet .
the establishment of a palestinian state will not be enough for those terrorists who want to see the elimination of the jewish state , any more than reaching a compromise over kashmir will satisfy those pakist an- based terrorists with bigger agendas vis-à-vis india .
reducing unemployment is desirable , of course , but many terrorists do not come from poverty .
helping to make societies in the middle east and elsewhere more democratic might reduce the alienation that can lead to radicalism and worse , but this is easier said than done .
of course , we want to continue to find ways to make ourselves less vulnerable and terrorists more so .
but what may be most important , particularly in the arab and islamic communities , is to end any acceptance of terrorism .
the nigerian father who warned the us embassy in lag os that he feared what his own son might do – before that same young man attempted to deton ate a bomb abo ard a flight to detro it on christmas day 2009 – is an example of just this .
only when more parents , teachers , and community leaders behave likewise will recruitment of terrorists dry up and law-enforcement authorities receive full cooperation from the populations they police .
terrorism must lose its legitimacy among those who have historically supported or tolerated it before it will lose its pot ency .
transatlantic trade for all
washington , dc – the negotiations to create a transatlantic trade and investment partnership between the european union and the united states are being widely welcomed .
british prime minister david cameron has called the ttip a “ once- in- a- generation prize , ” citing potential gains of £ 80 billion ( $ 12 5.5 billion ) each for the eu and the us and £ 85 billion for the rest of the world .
for a world weary of waiting for the world trade organization ’ s inter min able doha trade round to conclude , even a bilateral trade initiative may seem like a boon , especially when , as a recent financial times editorial pointed out , “ bilateral ” covers half of the world ’ s economy .
but there is a serious downside : the deal could hurt developing-country exporters , unless the eu and the us make a concerted effort to protect these actors ’ interests .
the feature of the proposed pact that elic its the most excitement – its focus on regulatory barriers like mandatory product standards – should actually incite the greatest concern .
given low tariffs in the eu and the us – less than 5 % , on average – further preferential reductions will not seriously handic ap outsiders .
as a result , third- country firms ’ options will depend on how ttip standards are established : through harmonization ( adoption of a common standard ) or mutual recognition ( acceptance of goods that meet one another ’ s established standards ) .
the first option would enable producers everywhere to take advantage of economies of scale .
but , in some cases , the harmon ized standard could be more stringent than some countries ’ original standards .
even though new standards would apply to suppliers from all exporting countries , compliance costs usually vary , meaning that those less equipped to meet higher standards could suffer .
in the late 1990 ’ s , when the eu decided to harmonize standards for af lat ox ins ( a group of toxic compounds produced by certain mol ds ) , eight member states – including italy , the netherlands , and spain – raised their national standards substantially , which is likely to have caused african exports of cer e als , dried fruits , and nu ts to europe to decline by as much as $ 6 70 million .
with mutual recognition , the eu and the us would accept each other ’ s standards or con form ity- assessment procedures , allowing firms to adhere to the less stringent requirements in each area .
if the policy were extended to third- country firms , it would have a powerful liberalizing impact .
for example , malaysian television producers could choose to comply with , say , america ’ s easi er- to- meet safety standards , then sell the same product in both markets , reaping the benefits of economies of scale while lowering compliance costs .
if , however , the ttip excluded third- country firms from the mutual recognition policy , their competitiveness vis-à-vis european and american companies would diminish substantially .
indeed , our research shows that when mutu al- recognition agreements include restrictive rules of origin , intra- regional trade increases – at the expense of trade with other countries – and that developing countries tend to suffer most .
in fact , excessively constraining rules of origin have proved problematic for some of the eu ’ s previous recognition agreements , such as those governing profession al- services standards .
while a brazilian orange admitted for sale in portugal can be sold throughout the eu , a brazilian engineer or accoun tant licensed in portugal must fulfill separate licensing requirements to work elsewhere in the eu , hampering much-needed labor mobility by forcing non- european workers to endure costly and inefficient bureaucratic procedures .
furthermore , when it comes to tariffs and standards , wto rules are not created equal .
while they protect countries excluded from bilateral or regional tariff agreements , thereby ensuring that integrated markets do not receive additional advantages , few safeguards exist to shield third countries from the fallout of agreements on mandatory standards .
even in the absence of international rules , the eu and the us could take two actions to ensure that the ttip does not have adverse consequences for developing economies .
first , they could allow all countries to reap the benefits of a bilateral mutu al- recognition deal by agreeing not to impose restrictive rules of origin .
second , where they do consider harmonization , they could favor the less stringent of the original standards , unless there is credible evidence that it would not support the relevant regulatory objective .
this is akin to a wto test for depar tures from established international standards .
if the eu and the us made these two commitments , the rest of the world could follow the ttip negotiations with hope , rather than tre p id ation .
a balanced look at sino-american imbalances
beijing – before july 2007 , most economists agreed that global imbalances were the most important threat to global growth .
it was argued that the united states ’ rising net foreign debt-to-gdp ratio – the result of chronic current-account deficits – would put a sharp brake on capital inflows , in turn weakening the dollar , driving up interest rates , and plunging the us economy into crisis .
but this scenario failed to materialize . instead , the crisis stemmed from the us sub-prime debacle , which quickly dragged the global economy into its deepest recession since the 1930 ’ s .
most economists failed to foresee the economic dynamics that actually led to the crisis , because they failed to pay enough attention to the rapid increase in us total debt .
instead , they focused exclusively on us foreign debt , ignoring household debt ( mortgage and consumer debt ) , public debt , business debt , and financial debt .
in particular , they should have paid greater attention to the sustainability of us mortgage and consumer debt .
in 2007 , the mortgage and consumer debt-to-gdp ratio was more than 90 % , compared to 24 % for net foreign debt .
of course , the various components of debt differ considerably in their character and sources of financing – and thus in their sustainability .
but all parts of a country ’ s total debt and how it is financed are interconnected .
second , troubles in any single component of total debt will have an impact on all the other components .
after the subprime crisis erupted , mortgage and consumer debt was paid down by households either with their savings or by default .
the fall in us total debt , and the narrowing of the financing gap between total debt and domestic funds , led to a significant improvement in the us current-account deficit in 2008-2009 , dis proving us federal reserve board chairman ben bernanke ’ s claim that the deficit was caused by a global “ saving glut . ”
indeed , america ’ s current-account position strengthened despite the dollar ’ s appreciation in the face of saf e- haven demand .
unfortunately , as a result of the private-sector deleveraging and an increase in household savings , the us economy , driven by debt and consumption , sli d into recession .
to offset the negative impact of private-sector deleveraging on growth , the us government has maintained expansionary fiscal and monetary policies .
now , with household debt sustained on a kn if e- edge after fe ver ish government intervention , the fiscal position has deteriorated dramatically and the current-account balance has worsened again .
sustainability of public debt has replaced sustainability of private debt as the biggest threat to financial stability , and the focus of debate about the us current account has shifted from the sustainability of foreign debt to the impact of reducing the external deficit on growth and employment .
the dilemma facing us policymakers is how to stimulate growth while lowering the level of total debt .
the most important way to achieve both objectives is to increase exports by strengthening us competitiveness .
but where will increased competitiveness come from ?
devaluation of the dollar could improve us competitiveness in the short run , but it is not a solution .
because rapid fiscal deterioration now has investors worrying about capital losses on us government securities , devaluation would make foreigners more hesitant to finance america ’ s budget deficit .
if foreign financing is not forthcoming , yields on us government debt will rise and the us economy will fall back into recession .
in the long run , america ’ s growth pattern must undergo a structural shift from reliance on debt and consumption one based on americans va unted capacity for creativity and innovation .
only then will america improve its competitiveness enough to allow the government to reduce both private and public debt to sustainable levels while maintaining a respectable growth rate .
but neither improved competitiveness , nor reduction of total debt , can be achieved overnight .
in the short run , the us current-account deficit will remain , regardless of which country runs bilateral surpluses .
thus , china ’ s continued re investment of its current-account surplus in us government securities is of utmost important for us growth and financial stability .
given that america benefits migh tily from china ’ s purchases of us government securities , it is difficult to understand why the us government and congress have been compl aining so much about the bilateral current-account deficit .
it is also difficult to grasp why china is so reluctant to reduce its bilateral surplus , given meager returns on its massive holdings of us government securities and a sustained risk of large capital losses in the future .
the good news is that , following president hu jintao ’ s recent visit to washington , both america and china have been taking positive steps to resolve their differences over the bilateral current-account balance .
that aug urs well for a more rational and constructive sino-american dialogue on global imbalances , which would certainly benefit the global economy .
a banking union baby step
brussels – at the beginning of the financial crisis , it was said that banks were , in charles good hart ’ s cris p phrase , “ international in life , but national in death . ”
at the time ( 2008-2009 ) , large international banks had to be rescued by their home countries ’ governments when they ran into trouble .
but the problem now in europe is the opposite : banks are “ national in life , but european in death . ”
in spain , for example , local savings banks ( ca j as ) financed an outsize real-estate boom .
as the boom turned to bust , the losses threatened to overwhelm the capacity of the spanish state , and the problem became european , because it threatened the very survival of the euro .
national supervisors always tend to minimize problems at home .
their instinct ( and their bureaucratic interest ) is to defend their countries ’ “ national champion ” bank ( s ) abroad .
but their resistance to recognizing problems at home runs even deeper .
until recently , the spanish authorities maintained that the problems in their country ’ s real-estate sector were temporary .
to acknowledge the truth would have meant admitting that for years they had overlooked the build-up of an unsustainable construction boom that now threatens to bankrupt the entire country .
in the case of ireland , the situation was initially not much different .
when problems started to surface , the finance minister at the time initially claimed that the country would carry out “ the cheap est bank rescue ever . ”
given national supervisors ’ predictable tendency not to recognize problems at home , it seemed natural that the cost of cleaning up insolvent banks should also be borne at the national level .
it thus seemed to make sense that even in the eurozone , banking supervision remained largely national .
the recently created european banking authority has only limited powers over national supervisors , whose daily work is guided mainly by national considerations .
but reality has shown that this approach is not tenable .
problems might originate at the national level , but , owing to monetary union , they quickly threaten the stability of the entire eurozone banking system .
at their june summit , europe ’ s leaders finally recognized the need to rec tify this situation , transferring responsibility for banking supervision in the eurozone to the european central bank .
given that financial integration is particularly strong within the monetary union , putting the ecb in charge was an obvious choice .
moreover , the ecb already bears de facto responsibility for the stability of the eurozone ’ s banking system .
but , until now , it had to lend massive amounts to banks without being able to judge their s ound ness , because all of that information was in the hands of national authorities who guarded it je al ously and typically denied problems until it was too late .
putting the ecb in charge should also help to stop the cre eping disintegration process , which is not publicly visible , but is very real nonetheless .
just ask any of the large international banking groups head quar tered in financially stressed eurozone countries .
consider the case of a bank head quar tered in italy , but with an important subsidiary in germany .
the german operations naturally generate a surplus of funds ( given that savings in germany far exceed investment on average ) .
the parent bank would like to use these funds to reinforce the group ’ s liquidity .
but the german supervisory authorities consider italy at risk and thus oppose any transfer of funds there .
the supervisor of the home country ( italy ) has the opposite interest .
it would like to see the “ internal capital market ” operate as much as possible .
here , too , it makes sense to have the ecb in charge as a neutral arbit er with respect to these opposing interests .
but , while putting the ecb in charge of banking supervision sol ves one problem , it creates another : can national authorities still be held responsible for saving banks that they no longer super v ise ?
economic ( and political ) logic requires that the eurozone will soon also need a common bank rescue fund .
officially , this has not yet been acknowledged .
but that is often the way that european integration proceeds : an incomplete step in one area later requires further steps in related areas .
but a financial crisis does not give policymakers the time that they once had to explain to voters why one step required another .
they will have to walk much more quickly to save the euro .
the renewed promise of abenomics
tokyo – japan ’ s liberal democratic party scored a decisive victory in the december 14 parliamentary election , with japanese voters demonstrating their overwhelming approval of prime minister shinzo abe ’ s macroeconomic policy agenda .
though voter turnout was relatively low , owing largely to the somewhat technical nature of the issues , the election ’ s message was clear : most japanese ab h or the prospect of a return to the grim economic trajectory that prevailed in japan before “ abenomics . ”
when the first “ arrow ” of abenomics – a fiscal stimulus program – was launched nearly two years ago , asset markets ' immediate response was positive .
the second arrow of abenomics – monetary easing – intensified these effects .
in the last two years , japan ’ s stock market has almost doubled in value , increasing the wealth of japanese consumers .
moreover , the yen has fallen by nearly one-third against the us dollar , from around ¥ 80 to nearly ¥ 120 per dollar , invigor ating japan ’ s export industries .
even more encouraging are developments in the labor market , which , unlike those in asset markets , reflect outcomes , not expectations .
here , too , the news is good .
the labor market has tightened , with unemployment standing at 3.5 % and the job -to- applic ant ratio above parity .
to be sure , there have been some setbacks : japan ’ s gdp shrank in the second and third quarters of 2014 .
but the downturn , which resulted from april ’ s consumption-tax hike – from 5 % to 8 % – can not be blamed on abenomics .
indeed , abe was hon oring a law enacted by the previous government , led by the democratic party of japan .
the first two arrows of abenomics were aimed at stimulating demand – and they were extremely effective .
the consumption-tax hike was needed to sustain them in flight . unfortunately , the hike was too large to keep them al of t .
the good news is that the tax hike ’ s impact is temporary . soon , it will begin to taper off , and industrial output will approach full capacity .
when demand begins to exceed supply , demand-side stimulus policies will become increasingly ineffective , and it will be time to launch the third arrow of abenomics : growth-enhancing structural reforms .
such reforms are essential to raise productivity growth and improve the japanese economy ’ s competitiveness .
four imperatives stand out .
the first task should be to eliminate – or , at least , reduce – the th icket of government regulations that is stifling economic dynamism .
the current system is so con vol uted and complex that it took more than three decades to open a new medical school in tokyo .
likewise , flights to han ed a airport , a convenient connection to the tokyo city area , have been rati oned .
this is no formula for long-term economic success .
furthermore , japan ’ s government should push to complete negotiations for the trans-pacific partnership , which is currently being negotiated among 12 countries , from mexico to the united states to vietnam .
the tpp would improve japan ’ s trade prospects considerably , including in sensitive sectors like agriculture , where exports of fast- moving consumer goods like flow ers and vegetables would benefit .
japan ’ s leaders must also work to expand the workforce , which faces severe constraints , owing largely to the country ’ s rapidly aging population .
in the absence of large-scale immigration , to which japanese remain un amenable , one relatively simple solution would be to integrate more women into the labor force .
finally , abe ’ s government must reduce the corporate-tax rate to align it more closely with international standards .
amid increasingly intense international competition to attract foreign investment , reducing the corporate tax would actually increase japan ’ s tax revenues , by spurring companies to invest their vast cash stockpiles in more productive activities .
now that abe ’ s government has a renewed mandate from japanese voters , it must deliver on its promises – and that means decisive and comprehensive implementation of structural reforms .
of course , this will require some sacrifices .
indeed , households have already endured some hardship , brought about by the consumption-tax hike .
the next step is for abe ’ s government to use its political capital to overcome vested interests , both in the bureaucracy and the business community .
this means compelling businesses to give up some of the special tax benefits they now enjoy .
for their part , politicians must participate in the taxpayer identification system .
and bureaucrats must forego some of the power that excessive regulation affor ds them .
if all of these groups join the japanese public in accepting reasonable sacrifices , abe ’ s government can fulfill its promise and build a thriving economy .
for the sake of all japanese – not to mention a world economy in need of a new source of dynamism – that promise deserves to be met .
the missing arrow of abenomics
tokyo – in his drive to kick-start the japanese economy , prime minister shinzo abe , shortly after taking office in 2012 , introduced a large fiscal stimulus and put in place a bold program of monetary easing .
since then , japanese policymakers have been working to launch what abe calls the third “ arrow ” of his agenda : ar du ous reforms of key industries and the demol ition of structural barriers to growth .
but the focus on public policy has left a “ fourth arrow ” – the private sector – un touched and seemingly ignored .
this is unfortunate , because the government can not fix japan ’ s ills on its own .
annual productivity growth has been stubbornly sluggish , rarely rising above 2 % for much of the past two decades , reflecting both missed opportunities and declining cost competitiveness .
japan ’ s productivity slump per me ates the entire economy ; labor and capital productivity gains have nearly stalled in almost every sector – even in japan ’ s signature advanced manufacturing industries .
labor productivity in the trans port - equipment sector , for example , is barely half that of germany .
this trend puts annual gdp growth on course to average only 1.3 % through 2025 , implying a third consecutive decade of stagnation .
such an outcome would coin cide with – and exacerbate the effects of – an adverse demographic shift that will constrain fiscal revenues and drive up costs for universal health care and pension benefits .
japan ’ s ability to alter its trajectory depends on individual companies making decisions to invest , change workplace policies , deploy new technologies , and test un tried business models .
abe ’ s structural reforms will take time and political will to enact , but japanese companies can not afford to sit still .
they can and must act , without waiting for the government to change its policies .
in many cases , the economy ’ s bottlenecks are not regulatory in nature , but stem from entrenched ways of doing business .
new research by the mckinsey global institute exam ines japan ’ s advanced manufacturing , retail , financial services , and health-care industries in detail – and finds substantial untapped productivity potential in every area .
for starters , japanese firms must become more globally integrated .
exporting to the fastest-growing overseas markets is one obvious route to overcoming sluggish demand growth at home .
but , rather than just selling products abroad , japanese enterprises need to expand operations beyond their borders and cast a wider net for international talent .
the process must start with an understanding of what the customer wants and a determination to deliver solutions accordingly .
closed and tightly managed r & d operations must be transformed into more fluid , open processes involving collaboration with customers and suppliers .
japanese companies will also need to improve their capabilities in areas such as marketing , pricing , and talent development .
while there are some pockets of excellence , most japanese firms are severely lacking in these areas .
to compete in global markets , they will need to achieve the same consistency in these areas that they have in their traditional areas of strength .
many japanese companies have yet to dig itiz e pap er- based processes and replace outdated information- technology systems .
others would benefit from moving beyond basic digitization to next- generation technologies , such as big- data analytics .
companies can also head off looming labor shortages with intelligent software systems and robotics .
manufacturers can augment or replace their assembly lines with technologies such as the internet of things and 3d printing .
more broadly , japanese companies have to organize for performance and discipline .
as policy changes unleash market forces , businesses will face greater competition .
some may need to re organize or exit un profitable markets ; others may have to undertake mergers and acquisitions to achieve economies of scale .
finally , shareholders and senior executives should tie performance goals to incentives .
some of japan ’ s corporate giants have already begun shifting from traditional sen ior ity- based advancement toward merit -based pay structures .
others should follow their lead .
promoting younger and more diverse talent can create ag ile organizations with fresh ideas .
if japan ’ s private sector rises to the challenge , it can move the economy onto a path of faster growth .
innovations in one company would casc ade across its entire industry by forcing competitors to raise their game .
in the 1950s and 1960s , for example , to y ota introduced more efficient production processes that were eventually adopted by the entire automobile industry .
instead of settling for a future of 1.3 % annual gdp growth , japan could attain roughly 3 % annual growth through 2025 .
doing so would require the growth rate of labor productivity to more than double , but this is an attainable goal .
more than half of this growth incre ment can be met by adopting best practices that companies around the world already use , while technology can close much of the remaining gap .
japanese business leaders need to combine big thinking with a focused attention to detail .
they will need to create innovative products , penetr ate new markets , and make bold investments in equipment , technology , and talent , while simultaneously scrutin izing every aspect of their operations for inefficiency and waste .
traditional ways of doing business may have to be abandoned .
but there is ample scope to make progress and spur faster economic growth .
immense trade flows , the rise of billions of new consumers in the emerging world , and technology breakthroughs are rapidly transforming the global economy .
japan can shift its current trajectory by turning this wave of disruption into opportunity .
from russia with un requ ited love
this month he hosted putin in tokyo and in his home town of nag ato ( fam ed for its on sen , or natural hot spr ings ) .
but abe ’ s cour t ship has so far yielded little for japan , and much for russia .
abe ’ s diplomatic over tures to putin are integral to his broader strategy to position japan as a counterweight to china , and to rebalance power in asia , where japan , russia , china , and india form a strategic quad r ang le .
abe has already built a close relationship with india , and he sees improved relations with russia – with which japan never formally made peace after world war ii – as the missing ingredient for a regional power equilibrium .
but abe ’ s tru st- building efforts with russia are not aimed only at checking chinese aggression .
he also wants russia to return its sou ther n most kur il islands – a resource-rich area known as the northern territories in japan – which the soviet union seized just after the united states dropped nuclear bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki in august 1945 .
in exchange , abe has offered economic aid , investments in russia ’ s neglected far east , and major energy deals .
abe has , however , encountered several obstacles .
for starters , japan is a particip ant in the us-led sanctions that were imposed on russia after it annexed crimea in march 2014 .
these sanctions have pushed russia closer to its traditional rival , china ; and putin has publicly identified the sanctions as a hin dr ance to concluding a peace treaty with japan .
in response to abe ’ s over tures , putin has dog g edly tried to drive a hard bargain .
russia has bolstered its defenses on the four disputed islands , and , just prior to this month ’ s summit , he told the japanese media that the current territorial arrangement suits russian interests .
“ we think that we have no territorial problems , ” he said . “ it ’ s japan that thinks that it has a territorial problem with russia . ”
the us-led sanctions regime and low oil prices have battered the russian economy , which is expected to contract by 0.8 % in 2016 .
thus , putin is more reluctant than ever to offer territorial concessions , lest it tar nish his domestic image as a staunch def ender of russian national interests .
against this backdrop , it is not surprising that abe left the recent “ on sen summit ” with dashed hopes of resolving the territorial dispute , while putin returned home with 68 new commercial accords .
many of the new agreements are symbolic , but some are substantive , including deals worth $ 2.5 billion and an agreement to set up a $ 1 billion bilater al- investment fund .
under the latter agreement , japan and russia are supposed create a “ special framework ” for joint economic activities on the disputed islands .
but the plan has already run into trouble .
peter shel ak ha ev , a senior russian official who leads the government ’ s far east investment and export agency , has indicated that there are legal hurdles to establishing such a framework , and that japanese firms doing business on the kur ils would have to pay taxes to russia .
if japan did that , however , it would effectively be recognizing russia ’ s jurisdiction over the islands .
abe has thus been denied the legacy that he sought , while putin has succeeded in easing russia ’ s international isolation .
abe was the first g7 leader to hold a summit with putin after russia annexed crimea , and now russia has won japan ’ s economic cooperation , too .
japan is the only g7 country that has a territorial dispute with russia , and it is clearly more eager to reach a deal than the kremlin is .
but this has only strengthened russia ’ s hand .
while japan has sof tened its position , and signaled that it may accept only a partial return of the islands , russia has grown only more intransig ent .
after the recent summit , abe revealed that putin now seems to be ren eg ing on a 1956 agreement between japan and the soviet union , which stipul ates that the smaller two of the four islands will be returned to japan after a peace treaty is signed .
as it happens , this year marks the 60th anniversary of that joint declaration , which was widely viewed as a breakthrough at the time .
the kremlin is now suggesting that its commitment to fulfilling the declaration was conditional on japan not joining any security alliance against russia .
japan is in no position to address russia ’ s concerns .
it can not opt out of the us-led sanctions regime ; and it can not exempt the disputed kur ils from its security treaty with the us , especially now that it has been urging the us to provide an explicit commitment to defend the japanese- controlled senkaku islands , over which china claims sovereignty .
putin , for his part , appears smu g ly content with his negotiating position .
not only did he arrive almost three hours late to the on sen summit , in keeping with his habit of leaving foreign leaders waiting ; he also declined a japanese government gift – a male compan ion for his native japanese ak ita dog , which japan gave him in 2012 .
there is little hope now that abe will see tangible returns on the political capital he has invested in cultivating putin .
and japan ’ s dilemma will only deepen .
us president-elect donald trump ’ s desire to improve relations with russia may give abe le eway to continue wo oing putin ; but if russia gets the us in its corner , it won ’ t need japan anymore .
a berlin consensus ?
hong kong – a recent trip to berlin brought back memories of an earlier visit in the summer of 1967 , when i was a poor student who mar vel ed at the wall that would divide and deva state an entire society for another two decades .
berlin today is vibrant and rejuven ated , rebuilt by the german peoples ' hard work and sacrifice to unify the country , and an apt setting for the conference of the institute for new economic thinking ( inet ) , which i was there to attend .
the conference ’ s theme was “ paradigm lost , ” with more than 300 economists , political scientists , systems analysts , and ec ologists gathering to rethink economic and political theory for the challenges and uncertainty posed by growing inequality , rising unemployment , global financial disarray , and climate change .
almost everyone agreed that the old paradigm of neo classical economics was broken , but there was no agreement on what can replace it .
nobel laureate am art ya sen attributed the european crisis to four failures – political , economic , social , and intellectual .
the global financial crisis , which began in 2007 as a crisis of us subprime lending and has broadened into a european sovereign-debt ( and banking ) crisis , has raised questions that we can not answer , owing to over- specialization and fragmentation of knowledge .
and yet there is no denying that the world has become too intr icate for any simple , overarching theory to explain complex economic , technological , demographic , and environmental shifts .
in particular , the rise of emerging markets has challenged traditional western deduc tive and induc tive logic .
deduc tive in ference enables us to predict effects if we know the principles ( the rule ) and the cause .
by induc tive reasoning , if we know the cause and effects , we can inf er the principles .
eastern thinking , by contrast , has been abduc tive , moving from pragmatism to gu essing the next steps .
abduc tive in ference is pragmatic , looking only at outcomes , gu essing at the rule , and identifying the cause .
like history , social- scientific theory is written by the victors and shaped by the context and challenges of its time .
free-market thinking evolved from anglo-saxon theorists ( many from scotland ) , who migrated and colon ized territories , allowing fortunate individuals to assume that there were no limits to consumption .
european continental thinking , responding to urbanization and the need for social order , emphasized institutional analysis of political economy .
thus , the emergence of neo classical economics in the nineteenth century was very much influenced by new t onian and car tes ian physics , moving from qual itative analysis to quanti fying human behavior by assuming rational behavior and excluding uncertainty .
this “ pre determined equilibrium ” thinking – reflected in the view that markets always self- correct – led to policy paralysis until the great depression , when john maynard keynes ’ s argument for government intervention to address unemployment and output gaps gained traction .
by the 1970 ’ s , the neo classical gener al- equilibrium school captured keynesian economics through real- sector models that assumed that “ finance is a veil , ” thereby becoming blind to financial markets ’ destabilizing effects .
economists like hy man min sky , who tried to correct this , were largely ignored as milton friedman and others led the profession ’ s push for free markets and minimal government intervention .
but then technology , demographics , and globalization brought dramatic new challenges that the neo classical approach could not foresee .
even as the world ’ s advanced countries over- consumed through leveraging from derivative finance , four billion of the world ’ s seven billion people began moving to middle-income status , making huge demands on global resources and raising the issue of ecological sustainability .
a change of mindset is needed not just in the west , but also in the east .
in 1987 , the historian ray hu ang explained it for china :
“ as the world enters the modern era , most countries under internal and external pressure need to re construct themselves by substitu ting the mode of governance rooted in agr arian experience with a new set of rules based on commer ce . … this is easier said than done .
the renewal process could affect the top and bottom layers , and inevitably it is necessary to re condition the institutional links between them .
comprehensive destruction is often the order ; and it may take decades to bring the work to completion . ”
using this macro- historical framework , we can see japanese deflation , european debt , and even the arab spring as phases of systemic changes within complex structures that are inter acting with one another in a new , multipolar global system .
we are witnessing simultaneous global convergence ( the narrowing of income , wealth , and knowledge gaps between countries ) and local divergence ( widening income , wealth , and knowledge gaps within countries ) .
adaptive systems struggle with order and creativity as they evolve .
as the philosopher ber tr and rus sell pres ci ently put it : “ security and justice require centralized governmental control , which must extend to the creation of a world government if it is to be effective .
progress , on the contrary , requires the utmost scope for personal initiative that is compatible with social order . ”
a new wave of what the economist joseph schumpeter famously called “ creative destruction ” is under way : even as central banks struggle to maintain stability by flooding markets with liquidity , credit to business and households is shrinking .
we live in an age of simultaneous fear of inflation and deflation ; of unprecedented prosperity amid growing inequality ; and of technological advancement and resource depletion .
meanwhile , existing political systems promise good jobs , sound governance , a sustainable environment , and social harmony without sacrifice – a parad ise of self- interested free rid ers that can be sustained only by sacrificing the natural environment and the welfare of future generations .
we can not postpone the pain of adjustment forever by printing money .
sustainability can be achieved only when the ha ves become willing to sacrifice for the ha ve- no ts .
the washington consensus of free-market reforms for developing countries ended more than two decades ago .
the inet conference in berlin showed the need for a new one – a consensus that supports sacrifice in the interest of unity .
europe could use it .
accepting japan at its word
tokyo – in recent years , the number of tourists visiting japan has been increasing rapidly , reaching a record 1 3.4 million last year , a 29 % increase from 2013 .
japan seems to be making great strides toward its goal of recap turing the position as an asian cultural center that it held a century ago , when the indian nobel laureate poet rab in dr an ath t ag ore lived in tokyo .
chinese revolutionary leaders sun y at- sen and chi ang ka i- sh ek , along with many other prominent asians , moved there as well .
anyone visiting japan today would do well to learn two key words : dom o , meaning “ hel lo , ” “ thanks , ” or “ well , ” and sum im as en , which can carry any of the mean ings of dom o , as well as “ sorry ” or “ excuse me . ”
ordinary japanese say sum im as en countless times each day , to apologize to friends or strangers for even the most trivial accident or mistake .
but , as japan ’ s leaders have experienced firsthand since world war ii , expressing regret to other countries is not so simple .
yet that is precisely what prime minister shinzo abe must do in his upcoming statement marking the 7 0th anniversary of the end of the war .
the statement will be based on consultations with many of japan ’ s , and the world ’ s , leading wwii historians , as well as – and more important – with himself , his conscience , and his heart , because he understands the significance of his words on this highly fraught topic .
of course , abe is far from the first japanese leader to confront this challenge .
his statement will follow a long line of declarations by prime ministers and chief cabinet secre tar ies expressing sincere remorse over the events of wwii .
he went on to express “ feelings of deep remorse ” and offer a “ heart felt apology ” to the victims .
ten years later , prime minister jun ich iro koizumi reiterated mur ay ama ’ s words , adding that since the war , japan had been “ manif esting its remorse for the war through actions , ” especially development assistance and humanitarian activities .
koizumi also pledged that “ japan , as a peace- lo ving nation , will work to achieve peace and prosperity for all humankind with all its resources . ”
despite these straightforward declarations of regret , some governments and citizens continue to demand more , giving the impression that nothing a japanese leader says or does will convince them of the country ’ s remorse .
this intrac tability is , in some cases , understandable ; the pain of survivors and their descendants remains acute .
but in many other cases , the unwillingness to move beyond history is driven by political interests .
indeed , political motivations are behind claims that abe does not agree with past official apologies , despite his repeated assurances that he does , as well as suggestions that he is seeking to revise history , even though he has never denied japan ’ s colonial aggression .
moreover , some have produced portr ay als of japan , as a whole , as an un rep ent ant country – or , worse , as one that is hel l- bent on re militar ization .
such depic tions are breathtaking in their aud acity , given japan ’ s seven - decade record as a peaceful and constructive member of the international community .
this is not lost on those in japan who ask for how long their country will have to apologize , with some even suggesting that after 70 years , a “ tweet ” on the subject should amount to adequate acknowledgement by abe .
the prime minister , however , remains committed to issuing a strong and sincere statement on the subject .
early this year , abe announced his intention to use the 7 0th anniversary statement to communicate japan ’ s remorse for the war , describe the progress the country has made in upholding peace , and describe the contributions that japan can make to asia and the rest of the world in the coming decades .
in fact , it is the third component of the announcement that inspires fear in some observers : by helping to build a strong security architecture in the asia-pacific region , japan could undermine the ability of some actors to advance their own interests .
that is why they launched a whis per campaign against abe ’ s statement months before he even began to write it .
but , of course , asian security and prosperity is in everyone ’ s interest .
given this , not even the language of abe ’ s statement is particularly important ; what matters is the determination he expres ses , and the actions he takes to follow through – with appropriate humility – on his pledges .
and it seems that abe is , indeed , determined to make real contributions to peace , based on effective cooperation with japan ’ s friends and allies .
but if asia is to move beyond its past , the victims of japan ’ s wartime aggression must recognize that the japan of 2015 is not the japan of 1931 , 1941 , or even 1945 , and that , as many asian leaders have realized over the years , forgiveness benefits everyone .
in 1998 , south korean president kim da e- jun g responded positively to a statement by former japanese prime minister ke iz o o bu chi .
the governments of indonesia , the philippines , vietnam , and other countries have done the same , and now welcome japan ’ s commitment to act with its allies to protect regional security .
these countries ’ openness to reconciliation have enabled japan to rec ast itself as a key arbit er of regional peace and prosperity , not to mention an increasingly dynamic cultural hub .
it is time for the rest of the region to follow suit , accepting at face value japan ’ s sincere apologies and working with the country to build a better future .
at a time when asia is facing serious security challenges , this stance could not be more urgent .
a big chance for small farmers
new york – the g-8 ’ s $ 20 billion initiative on smallholder agriculture , launched at the group ’ s recent summit in l ’ aqu ila , italy , is a potentially historic breakthrough in the fight against hunger and extreme poverty .
with serious management of the new funds , food production in africa will soar .
indeed , the new initiative , combined with others in health , education , and infrastructure , could be the greatest step so far toward achieving the millennium development goals , the internationally agreed effort to reduce extreme poverty , disease , and hunger by half by 2015 .
during 200 2- 2006 , i led the united nations millennium project , which aimed to achieve the millennium development goals , for then- un secretary general kofi annan .
one cornerstone of the project was “ smallholder farmers , ” meaning peasant farm families in africa , latin america , and asia – working farms of around one hec t are ( 2.5 ac res ) or less .
they are hungry because they lack the ability to buy high- yield seeds , fertilizer , irrigation equipment , and other tools needed to increase productivity .
as a result , their output is meager and insufficient for their subsistence .
their poverty causes low farm productivity , and low farm productivity reinforces their poverty .
it ’ s a vicious circle , technically known as a poverty trap .
the un millennium project ’ s hunger task force , led by two world- leading scientists , m. s. sw am in athan and pe dr o san che z , examined how to break this vicious circle .
the hunger task force determined that africa could substantially increase its food production if help was given to smallholder farmers , in the form of agricultural inputs . the millennium project recommended a big increase in global funding for this purpose . drawing on that work and related scientific findings , annan launched a call in 2004 for an african green revolution , based on an expanded partnership between africa and donor countries .
many of us , notably current un secretary general ban ki-moon , have worked hard to make this possible , with ban repeatedly emphasizing the special emergency arising from the global food , financial , and energy crises of the past two years .
the g-8 announcement reflects these years of effort , and of course the boost from the leadership of us president barack obama , spanish prime minister j ose lu is z ap ater o , australian prime minister kevin rud d , world bank president robert zo ell ick , european commissioner louis michel , european parliament arian th ij s ber man , and others .
now the key is to make this effort work .
the lessons of history are clear .
getting seed and fertilizer to smallholder farmers at highly subsidized prices ( or even free in some cases ) will make a lasting difference .
not only will food yields rise in the short term , but farm households will use their higher incomes and better health to accumulate all sorts of assets : cash balances , soil nutrients , farm animals , and their children ’ s health and education .
that boost in assets will , in turn , enable local credit markets , such as micro- finance , to begin operating .
farmers will be able to buy inputs , either out of their own cash , or by borrowing against their improved creditworthiness .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist small holders , but obstacles remain .
perhaps the main risk is that the “ aid bureaucracies ” now trip over each other to try to get their hands on the $ 20 billion , so that much of it gets taken up by meetings , expert consultations , over head , reports , and further meetings .
“ partnerships ” of donors can become an expensive end in themselves , merely delaying real action .
if donor governments really want results , they should take the money out of the hands of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , the most logical being the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( if ad ) in rome .
one or both of these agencies would then have an account with several billion dollars .
governments in hun ger- stricken regions , especially africa , would then submit national action plans that would provide details on how they would use the donor funds to get high- yield seeds , fertilizer , irrigation , farm tools , storage sil os , and local advice to impoverished farmers .
an independent expert panel would review the national plans to verify their scientific and managerial coherence .
assuming that a plan passes muster , the money to support it would quickly be disbur sed .
after ward , each national program would be monitored , aud ited , and evaluated .
this approach is straightforward , efficient , accountable , and scientif ically sound .
two major recent success stories in aid have used this approach : the global alliance on vaccines and immun izations , which successfully gets immun izations to young children , and the global fund to fight aids , tb , and malaria , which supports national action plans to battle these killer diseases .
both have saved millions of lives during the past decade , and have paved the way to a new more efficient and scientif ically sound method of development assistance .
not surprisingly , many un agencies and aid agencies in rich countries fight this approach .
all too often , the fight is about tur f , rather than about the most effective way to speed help to the poor .
obama , rud d , z ap ater o , and other for ward- thinking leaders can therefore make a huge difference by following up on their pledges at the g-8 and insisting that the aid really works .
a black and white question
new york – in the after noon of july 16 two men appeared to be breaking into a fine house in an expensive area of cambridge , massachusetts .
aler ted by a telephone call , a polic eman arrived smar tly on the scene .
he saw one black male standing inside the house and asked him to come out .
the man refused .
he was then told to identify himself .
the man , still refusing to step out , said he was a harvard professor , showed his id , and warned the c op not to mess with him .
he said something about black men in america being singled out , and asked the c op , who was white , for his name and identification .
the c op , joined by several colleagues , arrested the professor for disorderly conduct .
we now know that the professor had broken into his own home , with the help of his chau ff eur , because the door was jam med .
what was unusual here was not the c op ’ s heavy- han de dness .
most people in the us know that if you talk back to the police , they will get nasty very fast .
the fact that the man was black might or might not have made the c op go for his hand cu ffs even sooner than he might normally have done .
that , too , would not have been unusual .
what made this case special was that henry louis “ sk ip ” gates is one of the most celebrated professors in the country , famous for his books , his articles , and numerous television appearances .
he is a gran de e , a mo ver and sha ker in the academic and media world , a friend of president barack obama .
that is why he warned the c op , sg t . james crow ley , a veteran of the cambridge police force , not to mess with him .
class and race overlap in the us .
in this instance , it is impossible to pr y them apart .
gates , deeply conscious , indeed a speci alist of the terrible history of race relations in his country , instinc tively assumed that he was a victim of prejudice .
from his words it appears that he was equally conscious of not getting the proper respect due to a distinguished harvard professor and media celebr ity .
as he put it to his daughter in an interview published online : “ [ crow ley ] should have gotten out of there and said , ‘ i ’ m sorry , sir , good luck .
loved your [ television ] ser ies — check with you later ! ’ ”
alas , sg t . crow ley had never heard of professor gates .
a local man whose brothers all serve in the police force , a sports fan , and an am at eur bas ke t ball co ach , crow ley does not move in the same social circles as gates .
as it happens , the charges were du ly dropped , and there the case might have rested if president obama , tired and frustrated after weeks of fighting for his healthcare bill , had not weighed in on behalf of his “ friend ” gates , and called the police “ stupid . ”
both he and gates then spoke of “ learning ” from the incident .
gates might even be planning a television documentary on racial profiling .
one thing to be learned , if we didn ’ t know this already , is how close racial sensitivities are to the surface of us life , despite the election of a black president .
the field is too full of mines .
one of obama ’ s great achievements is that he made it into a serious topic through the brilli ance and sub t le ty of his rhetoric .
and there remains plenty to talk about : the grotes qu ely disproportionate number of black men in us prisons ; the lack of educational opportunities in poor , mostly black areas ; the appalling healthcare system ; and the very real brutality used by police officers against bl acks , who don ’ t have the privilege of a harvard id .
it is probably true that many white policemen , even if they are trained to avoid racial profiling , as sg t . crow ley was , need to be convinced that a black man can be at home in one of the fin er houses of cambridge , or any other american city .
but is the gates affair the right way to enter into this discussion ?
one might argue that it was .
if not professor gates , then who ?
precisely because he is a gran de e , he is in the position to draw national attention to a serious issue .
if the same thing had happened to an unknown man in har l em , or some other poor , or predominantly black district , no one would ever have heard about it .
the fact that it happened to a professor in cambridge makes everyone sit up and take notice .
there is , however , a danger that it will have an adverse affect on the necessary national discussion about race .
by having made such a big issue out of what was in fact a relatively minor event gates could be accused of triv i alizing much worse instances of abuse .
indeed , we don ’ t even know for certain whether this was such an instance .
crow ley never mentioned the color of gates ’ skin . there was no question of violence .
there were just very raw ner ves and hyper sensitivity to hints of dis respect , on the part of the professor , and of the c op .
outrage about a professor who is not to be mess ed with is not the best way to discuss the plight of countless , poor , anonymous people , whom most of us find it too easy to ignore .
a b oll ywood br ide for sarkozy ?
paris -- ever since french president nicolas sarkozy took himself off his country ’ s mo st- elig ib le- bachel or list by publicly acknowledging his affair with super mod el- tur ne d- pop - mus ic ian car la br uni during a romantic trip to euro dis ney , he ’ s run into trouble .
his ratings have di pped below 50 % for the first time .
older french citizens don ’ t find the public spectacle of their leader in love very am using .
abroad , egyptian lawmakers were so exercised over the prospect of the french head of state sharing a bed with his gir l friend that several v ented their dis approval on the floor of the parliament .
likewise , india is all in a qu and ary over how to handle protocol during sarkozy ’ s impending visit to the sub continent as the guest of honor at the country ’ s republic day celebrations on january 26 .
should the first gir l friend have her own motor c ade , as a first lady would ?
meanwhile , the same hard- right hindu groups that protest val ent ine ’ s day as a decad ent western holiday have warned that if sarkozy arrives with his gir l friend in t ow , they ’ ll be out in the streets to welcome him .
this controversy has threatened to cast a p all over a much- heralded summit between two of the world ’ s great democracies .
with lucrative deals at stake for the big- ticket products that drive the french economy – military hardware , nuclear power plants , and air bus planes – france has a strong interest in a successful summit in india .
so , as rumors fly of secret marriage ceremon ies either already concluded or in the works , could the trouble brewing in india over the french president ’ s very public love life be behind the rush to have the couple legally wed ?
the news in sarkozy ’ s favored media out let journal du di manch e that the couple plan to marry touched off a fl ur ry of fe vered speculation on when the happy event might occur .
the couple exchanged significant to k ens of their mutual affection : he offered her a hear t- shaped p ink diamond ring by di or , she offered him a swiss watch .
but he refused , even under direct questioning by reporters , to reveal an exact date .
“ you ’ ll probably find out after it ’ s happened , ” he ta unted .
rum or has it the couple has set february 8 or 9 for the we dding . others say that sarkozy has already out smar ted the media by secretly mar rying in the el y see palace , even as he was do dg ing we dding questions .
if that is true , then sarkozy missed the romantic opportunity of a lifetime .
if the couple si zz led for cameras with lux or and pe tra as the backdrop , just imagine how hot things could get at the most romantic spot on earth , the ta j mah al .
and , given the current rage for all things b oll ywood in france , a lavish indian we dding would be fitting .
br uni ’ s own life path closely resembles any number of b oll ywood stars who have made the transition from model to ac tress .
a com ely brun et te who s ings is perfect for a b oll ywood ma ke over .
the indian government will be nothing if not relieved to see the first gir l friend made a wife .
as one of india ’ s leading daily newspapers , the indian express , sp elled it out , lest anyone be confused , “ a gir l friend is not a wife or sp ouse . ”
once wed , all protocol worries about the french delegation would simply disappear .
despite the sometimes down right porno graphic on- screen w ri thing of b oll ywood star lets , india is still a deeply conservative society .
divorce is anathema . ( sarkozy is now twice divor ced . )
and , while mist res ses abound among the privileged classes , they do not stru t publicly by their power- mates ’ sides .
kis sing and f on d ling in public , even by sp ous es , is taboo .
in this respect , india more resembles the france with which sarkozy wants to make a clean break than the current one .
most indians , as it seems many french , would prefer not to shed the “ hypocrisy ” sarkozy lam ents on the part of his predecessors ( read : former french president françois mitterrand , who had a child with his mist ress about whom the public knew nothing until the man ’ s fun eral ) .
sarkozy , of all people , should know that a large part of the gravit as of office derives from pom p and circum stance .
statecraft is a realm where appearances are meant to be dece iving .
when sarkozy , who otherwise has such fin ely tun ed media instincts , protests that he ’ s no different from any other man , he comes dangerously close to confusing the office and the person of the president .
most french people could only dream of an ex otic we dding in india .
sarkozy could make that dream come true .
if he really is as head - over- heels in love with br uni as he claims , and plans to marry her im min ently , why not take advantage of his upcoming trip to india and make this a we dding to remember ?
he could meet his br ide seated maj es tically on the cap ar ison of an elabor ately dec or ated elephant , and she would look rav ishing swa th ed and be je wel ed in indian fin ery .
the “ bl ing- bling ” president , as sarkozy has been dubbed , can wear all the gold he wants and he ap yet more diamonds on his br ide .
the cameras would roll , indians would smile , and france would be treated to a b oll ywood spectacle beyond its wil dest dreams .
and if it ’ s too late for the we dding , there ’ s always the reception .
a born - again cap
w ag en ing en , netherlands – born in 1957 , the common agricultural policy ( cap ) is now more than 50 years old , and the european commission is proposing what it calls a health check for its middle-aged child .
work on its renewal is due to start now , with the completed project ready in 2013 . but a much more profound re- think is needed .
the cap ’ s original aim was to provide a secure source of food for the six original member states of the union , which were importers of food and sought a degree of self- sufficiency .
good , healthy , and cheap food had to be accessible for all citizens . improved agricultural productivity would benefit rural areas and give farmers a comparative share in the union ’ s growing wealth .
instruments to achieve those objectives were developed , and food security was achieved .
the cap quickly came to be seen as the je w el in the crown of the european project .
as the eu has evolved and expanded , food systems have become more complex , involving production , processing , supply- chain organization , and wholesale and retail distribution , with all of these involving new issues like health and the environment . the use of land is also receiving more serious scrutiny .
a 1991 study by the netherlands scientific council for governmental policy , entitled ground for choices , demonstrated that the eu ’ s food supply could be met with 50 % less cultivated land , 80 % less pesticides , and at 50 % less cost .
pollution would be reduced by 70 % as a result of fewer nit rates in the surface water , and greenhouse gases would be cut .
those figures were for an eu of 15 countries , so with today ’ s 27 members the possibilities are even greater .
a dutch analysis of land use has shown that by employing the best technical and ecological means on the best available land , substantial gains could be made in food production .
so it is not surprising that the number of farmers needed has fallen substantially .
viewed from the standpoint of food security and the wealth of rural areas , there is now an urgent need to re visit the cap ’ s main instruments so that a new policy formula can be introduced .
perverse subsidies must be removed and recent new ones favoring products such as bio- fuels re considered .
the status quo clearly has to be changed .
rural policy in the eu is too often reduced to income guarantees for the farming community . but that attitude is undermining change .
competition must be encouraged , as more rural entrepreneurship will strengthen the farming community , with fewer farmers but better farms .
a sim pli fied cap would encourage cleaner , more productive , and efficient agriculture .
a side benefit for the eu ’ s standing in the world could be that the world trade organization ’ s stalled doha negotiations could be re started once farmers in developing countries are assured of getting a fair deal from europe .
moreover , the cap ’ s role as a motor of political and social integration in europe could be restored once renewed policies are in place .
but renewal of this sort can not be left to global market forces , as the results might not necessarily benefit european agriculture and society .
if the market “ mis beha ves , ” farmers could be reduced to poverty , leading to the neglect of large areas of europe .
that is a real enough danger to which policymakers must give serious thought as they reform the cap on the basis of the following five pillars .
1 . the eu needs a knowledge and innovation policy that strengthens european agriculture ’ s competitiveness .
such a policy has been successful in the netherlands , substantially contributing to the development and power of the country ’ s ag ri business .
ten of 21 branches of dutch ag ri business , including hor ticul tural seeds , or nam ent als , seed pot at oes , and ve al , are among the top contributors to the national economy and the country ’ s trade balance .
in the eu as a whole , a policy directed toward research programs stimulating scientific excellence and greater coherence in the european knowledge system would greatly strengthen agriculture ’ s competitiveness and contribute to food security and sustainable development .
2 . europe also needs a restructuring policy for land use .
many structural improvement programs have been financed at the european level , but agricultural production and land use are not among them .
the development of an agricultural main structure would compli ment the european ecological main structure .
3 . a policy for european food systems would treat production , processing , distribution , logistics , and retail ing in combination .
consumption patterns and preferences are an integral part of such systems .
preliminary studies by the european science foundation ’ s “ forward look on european food systems ” could prove useful in devising an eu-wide policy .
4 . metropolitan agriculture in a rapidly urban izing world can provide high-quality produce on small amounts of land .
it offers an answer to rising demand for healthy food with minimal environmental side effects .
5 . a new cap should include a policy to safeguard europe ’ s lands cap es .
but a cultural heritage should not be maintained everywhere , nor should it ignore cost .
and it should not be a defensive policy of the sort that tends to concentrate on poor - quality land .
these five pillars involve drastic choices , but they will probably require less money from europe ’ s taxpayers , not more .
they could make a real contribution to cleaner , more productive , and efficient farming and land use , while addressing social needs .
a breakthrough against hunger
new york – today ’ s world hunger crisis is unpreced ent edly severe and requires urgent measures .
nearly one billion people are trapped in chronic hunger – perhaps 100 million more than two years ago .
spain is taking global leadership in combating hunger by inviting world leaders to madrid in late january to move beyond words to action .
with spain ’ s leadership and united nations secretary general ban ki-moon ’ s partnership , several donor governments are proposing to pool their financial resources so that the world ’ s poorest farmers can grow more food and escape the poverty trap .
the benefits of some donor help can be remarkable .
peasant farmers in africa , haiti , and other impoverished regions currently plant their crops without the benefit of high- yield seed varieties and fertilizers .
the result is a grain yield ( for example , maize ) that is roughly one-third less than what could be achieved with better farm inputs .
african farmers produce roughly one ton of grain per hec t are , compared with more than four tons per hec t are in china , where farmers use fertilizers heavily .
african farmers know that they need fertilizer ; they just can ’ t afford it .
with donor help , they can .
not only do these farmers then feed their families , but they also can begin to earn market income and to save for the future .
by building up savings over a few years , the farmers eventually become credit worthy , or have enough cash to purchase vitally necessary inputs on their own .
there is now widespread agreement on the need for increased donor financing for small farmers ( those with two hectares or less of land , or impoverished past or alists ) , which is especially urgent in africa .
the un secretary general led a steering group last year that determined that african agriculture needs around $ 8 billion per year in donor financing – roughly four times the current total – with a heavy emphasis on improved seeds , fertilizer , irrigation systems , and extension training .
in addition to direct help for small farms , donors should provide more help for the research and development needed to identify new high- yielding seed varieties , especially to breed plants that can withstand temporary flooding , excess nitrogen , sal ty soils , crop pe sts , and other challenges to sustainable food production .
helping the poor with today ’ s technologies , while investing in future improved technologies , is the optim um division of labor .
this investment pays off wonder fully , with research centers such as the international rice research institute and the international maize and wheat improvement centr e providing the high- yield seeds and innovative farming strategies that together triggered the asian green revolution .
these centers are not household names , but they deserve to be .
dozens of low-income , food- deficit countries , perhaps as many as 40- 50 , have elabor ated urgent programs for increased food production by small farms , but are currently held back by the lack of donor funding .
these countries have appealed to the world bank for financing , and the bank made a val iant effort in 2008 to help through its new global food crisis response program ( g f cr p ) .
but the bank does not yet have sufficient funds to meet these countries ’ urgent needs , and has had to r ation assistance to a small fraction of the flows that could be effectively and reliably used .
hundreds of millions of people , in the meantime , remain trapped in hunger .
many individual donor countries have declared that they are now prepared to increase their financial support for smallholder agriculture , but are searching for the appropriate mechanisms to do so .
the current aid structures are inadequate .
the more than 20 bilateral and multilateral donor agencies for agriculture are highly fragmented and of insufficient scale individually and collectively .
despite the dedicated efforts of many professionals , the response to the hunger crisis remains utterly inadequate .
the 2008 planting seas ons came and went with much too little additional help for impoverished small farmers .
african countries search end lessly , and mostly fruit lessly , for the small amounts of funding needed for their purchases of fertilizer and improved seeds .
my colleagues and i , serving on an advisory committee for the spanish initiative , have recommended that donors pool their funds into a single international account , which we call the financial coordination mechanism ( f c m ) .
these pool ed funds would enable farmers in poor countries to obtain the fertilizer , improved seed varieties , and small-scale irrigation equipment that they urgently need .
poor countries would receive prompt and predictable financing for agricultural inputs from a single account , rather than from dozens of distinct and fragmented donors .
by pooling financial resources into a single- donor f c m , aid programs ’ administrative costs could be kept low , the availability of aid flows could be assured , and poor countries would not have to negotiate 25 times in order to receive help .
the time for business as usual is over .
the donors promised to double aid to africa by 2010 , but are still far off track .
indeed , during the past 20 years , they actually cut aid for agriculture programs , and only now are reversing course .
meanwhile , a billion people go hungry each day .
we need a breakthrough that is demonstr able , public , clear , and convincing , that can mobilize the public ’ s hearts and minds , and that can demonstrate success .
history can be made in madrid at the end of january , when the world ’ s richest and poorest countries converge to seek solutions to the global hunger crisis .
the lives of the billion poorest people depend on it .
a breakthrough opportunity for global health
new york – every year , millions of people die from preventable and treatable diseases , especially in poor countries .
in many cases , lifes aving medicines can be cheaply mass- produced , but are sold at prices that block access to those who need them .
and many die simply because there are no cures or vaccines , because so little of the world ’ s valuable research talent and limited resources is devoted to addressing the diseases of the poor .
this state of affairs represents a failure of economics and law that urgently needs to be corrected .
the good news is that there are now opportunities for change , most promis ingly through an international effort headed by the world health organization that would begin to fix the broken intellectual-property regime that is holding back the development and availability of cheap drugs .
two main problems limit the availability of medicines today .
one is that they are very costly ; or , more accurately , the price charged for them is very high , though the cost of producing them is but a fraction of that amount .
because the poor have so little money to spend , drug companies , under current arrangements , have little incentive to do research on the diseases that afflic t them .
it doesn ’ t have to be this way .
drug companies argue that high prices are necessary to fund research and development .
but , in the united states , it is actually the government that finances most health- related research and development – directly , through public support ( national institutes of health , national science foundation ) , and indirectly , through public purchases of medicine , both in the medicare and medicaid programs .
even the part that is not government- financed is not a conventional market ; most individuals ’ purchases of prescription medicines are covered by insurance .
government finances health-care research because improved medicines are a public good .
the resulting knowledge benefits everyone by stopping epidemics and limiting the economic and human toll of widespread illness .
efficiency requires sharing research as widely as possible as soon as it is available .
thomas je ffer son compared knowledge to cand les : when one is used to light another , it does not diminish the light of the first .
on the contrary , everything becomes brighter .
yet , in america and most of the world , drug prices are still exorbitant and the spread of knowledge is tightly limited .
that is because we have created a patent system that gives innovators a temporary monopoly over what they create , which encourages them to ho ard their knowledge , lest they help a competitor .
while this system does provide incentives for certain kinds of research by making innovation profitable , it allows drug companies to drive up prices , and the incentives do not necessarily cor respond to social returns .
in the health-care sector , it may be more profitable to devote research to a “ me - too ” drug than to the development of a treatment that really makes a difference .
the patent system may even have adverse effects on innovation , because , while the most important input into any research is prior ideas , the patent system encourages secrecy .
a solution to both high prices and mis directed research is to replace the current model with a government- supported prize fund .
with a prize system , innovators are rewarded for new knowledge , but they do not retain a monopoly on its use .
that way , the power of competitive markets can ensure that , once a drug is developed , it is made available at the lowest possible price – not at an inflated monopoly price .
fortunately , some us lawmakers are taking a strong interest in this approach .
the prize fund for hiv/aids act , a congressional bill introduced by senator bernie sanders , is just such an initiative .
his bill also contains an important provision aimed at encouraging open- source research , which would move the current research model away from secrecy toward sharing .
but , globally , our innovation system needs much bigger changes .
the who ’ s efforts to encourage broad reforms at the international level are crucial .
this spring , the who released a report that recommends solutions similar to those proposed in the us senate bill , but on a global level .
importantly , the report , “ research and development to meet health needs in developing countries , ” recommends a comprehensive approach , including mandatory funding contributions from governments for research on developing countries ’ health needs ; international coordination of health-care priorities and implementation ; and a global observ atory that would monitor where needs are greatest .
in late may , the international community will have a chance to begin implementing these ideas at the who world health assembly – a moment of hope for public health around the world .
reforming our innovation system is not just a matter of economics .
it is , in many cases , a matter of life and death .
it is therefore essential to de- link r & d incentives from drug prices , and to promote greater sharing of scientific knowledge .
for the world , the who ’ s recommendations represent a once- in- a- generation opportunity to remedy a long-standing and egregious in equity in health care , and , more broadly , to set a model for governance of global public goods be fitting an era of globalization .
we can not afford to let this opportunity pass us by .
india ’ s change of guard
singapore – in august , r ag hur am rajan was appointed governor of the reserve bank of india .
on one level , this was a routine announcement that many had anticipated – after all , rajan is arguably the best- known indian economist of his generation .
on another level , however , his appointment can be seen as part of a broader generational shift .
rajan , just 50 , will be the first rbi governor born after india became a republic in 1950 .
similar changes are taking place in all wal ks of indian life , including politics , the arts , sports , and social development .
and india will be better for it .
although the country is one of the youngest in the world , with an average age of just 26 years , until recently aging stal war ts in con gr uously dominated most fields , from politics to the arts and even business and sports .
but now younger entrants are rising everywhere , bringing with them energy and new ideas .
in politics , as the country prepa res for next year ’ s general election , the leading cont enders to replace 8 1- year-old prime minister manmohan singh are the bharatiya janata party ’ s narendra modi , 62 , and ra hu l gandhi , who is just 43 .
either man would be the first prime minister who was not born in the british ra j .
the arts were one of the first areas to witness this generational change .
for a long time , indian literature , especially in english , was dominated by a c liqu e who wrote mainly for a nic he audience and literary recognition .
then , a few years ago , a group of young writers – such as che tan b hag at and am ish tri path i , both former bankers – changed the rules of the game by writing for the mass market .
rather than write for literary critics , they began to use a simpler language , including indian turns of phrase .
they also chose new themes : tri path i di pped into ancient myth ology to write a tril og y about the god sh iv a , while b hag at began to write about the lives of india ’ s young , up war dly mobile middle class .
predictably , the pur ists p ounced and the critics ridic uled .
but people have bought their books in the millions , and film deals have followed .
as a result , the market for books has dramatically expanded and publish ers have been forced to change their entire business strategies .
something similar has happened in the music industry . previously dominated by a small cab al of sing ers and music directors , the market has been transformed by tv talent contests , similar to american id ol , which provide a national show case for the wealth of india ’ s talent .
the shows have made participants , some drawn from remote towns , into overnight stars , and many of them have gone on to sign lucrative careers .
thanks partly to this par ade of new talent , the indian music industry is experiencing a period of extraordinary innovation and expansion .
the output of the us and european music industries sounds st ale in comparison , owing to a dearth of innovation over the last two decades .
generational change has even come to india ’ s most popular sport – cricket .
such was the ad ulation once he aped upon its aging stars that many of them remained on the national team long past their peak .
but a mere two years after winning the world cup in 2011 , several members of that victorious team have been replaced – a decision that until recently would have seemed unthinkable .
india ’ s social sector has also been transformed .
but the arrival of new faces from the world of business , such as ash ish dha wan , j ay ant sin ha , and ram esh and sw ati ram an athan , has meant that development issues are at last being assessed according to the problem-solving approach of social entrepreneurs , rather than through the ideological lens of activists .
ironically , it is the world of business that remains slow to change .
the growth of the it sector in the 1990 ’ s seemed to promise that change would be rapid and far-reaching , but the old business families still dominate .
there is hope , though .
entrepreneurs like man ish sab har w al of te am lease , and bin ny and sach in ban s al of fli pk art , an online retail er , are fundamentally changing the way india does business .
similarly , indian academia may be moribund , but new public intellectuals like pr at ap b han u me h ta have emerged from outside the mainstream .
yes , india ’ s economy has slowed sharply , the rupee has plunged , and scandals and protests dominate the headlines .
but , behind the glo om , a new generation is taking over , bringing with it fresh ideas and visions for india .
abs ent- minded killers
as a species , human beings have a major self- control problem .
we humans are now so aggressively fishing , hunting , lo gging , and growing crops in all parts of the world that we are literally chasing other species off the planet .
our intense desire to take all that we can from nature leaves precious little for other forms of life .
in 1992 , when the world ’ s governments first promised to address man-made global warming , they also vowed to head off the human-induced extinction of other species .
the convention on biological diversity , agreed at the rio earth summit , established that “ biological diversity is a common concern of humanity . ”
the signatories agreed to con serve biological diversity , by saving species and their habit ats , and to use biological resources ( e. g . , forests ) in a sustainable manner .
in 2002 , the treaty ’ s signatories went further , committing to “ a significant reduction in the current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 .
unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unknown , un- championed , and un fulfilled .
that neglect is a human tragedy .
for a very low cash out lay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could con serve nature and thus protect the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
we kill other species not because we must , but because we are too neglig ent to do otherwise .
consider a couple of notorious examples .
some rich countries , such as spain , portugal , australia , and new zealand , have fishing fle ets that engage in so-called “ bottom tra w ling . ”
bottom tra w lers drag heavy nets over the ocean bottom , destroying magn ific ent , un explored , and endangered marine species in the process .
complex and unique ec ologies , most notably underground vol can oes known as se amounts , are ri pped to sh reds , because bottom tra w ling is the “ low cost ” way to catch a few deep sea fish species .
one of these species , orange rough y , has been caught commercially for only around a quarter-century , but already is being f ished to the point of collapse .
likewise , in many parts of the world , tropical rain forest is being cleared for past ure land and food crops .
the result is massive loss of habitat and destruction of species , yielding a tiny economic benefit at a huge social cost .
after cutting down a swath of rain forest , soils are often quickly le ached of their nutrients so that they can not sustain crops or nutriti ous grass es for livestock .
as a result , the new past ure land or farmland is soon abandoned , with no prospect for regener ation of the original forest and its unique ecosystems .
bottom tra w ling should simply be out la wed ; it would be simple and inexpensive to compensate the fishing industry during a transition to other activities .
forest clearing , on the other hand , is probably best stopped by economic incentives , perhaps combined with regulatory limits .
simply restricting the practice of land clearing probably would not work , since farm families and communities would face a strong temptation to evade legal limits .
on the other hand , financial incentives would probably succeed , because cutting down forest to create past u reland is not profitable enough to induce farmers to forego payments for protecting the land .
many rain forest countries have united in recent years to suggest the establishment of a rain forest conservation fund by the rich countries , to pay impoverished small farmers a small amount of money to preserve the forest .
a well-designed fund would slow or stop deforestation , preserve biodiversity , and reduce emissions of carbon dioxide the burning of cleared forests .
at the same time , small farmers would receive a steady flow of income , which they could use for micro- investments to improve their household ’ s wealth , education , and health .
aside from banning bottom tra w ling and establishing a global fund for avoided deforestation , we should design ate a global network of protected marine areas , in which fishing , bo ating , polluting , dre dg ing , drilling , and other damaging activities would be prohibited .
such areas not only permit the regener ation of species , but also provide ecological benefits that spill over to neighboring un protected areas .
we also need a regular scientific process to present the world with the evidence on species abundance and extinction , just as we now have such a process for climate change .
politicians don ’ t listen very well to individual scientists , but they are forced to listen when hundreds of scientists speak with a united voice .
finally , the world should negotiate a new framework no later than 2010 to slow human-induced climate change .
there can be little doubt that climate change poses one of the greatest risks to species ’ viability .
as the planet war ms , and rain and storm patterns change dramatically , many species will find themselves in climate zones that no longer support their survival .
some can migrate , but others ( such as polar bears ) are likely to be driven to extinction unless we take decisive action to head off climate change .
these measures are achievable by 2010 .
they are affordable , and in each case would ultimately deliver large net benefits .
most importantly , they would allow us to follow through on a global promise .
it is too painful to believe that humanity would destroy millions of other species – and jeopardize our own future – in a fit of abs ent- min de dness .
making do with more
berkeley – in the united states , just three out of ten workers are needed to produce and deliver the goods we consume .
everything we extract , grow , design , build , make , engineer , and transport – down to brewing a cup of coffee in a restaurant kit chen and carrying it to a customer 's table – is done by roughly 30 % of the country 's workforce .
the rest of us spend our time planning what to make , deciding where to install the things we have made , performing personal services , talking to each other , and keeping track of what is being done , so that we can figure out what needs to be done next .
and yet , despite our obvious ability to produce much more than we need , we do not seem to be blessed with an embarrassment of riches .
one of the great paradox es of our time is that workers and middle-class households continue to struggle in a time of un parall eled plenty .
we in the developed countries have more than enough to cover our basic needs .
we have enough organic carbon- hydrogen bonds to break to provide us with calories ; enough vit am ins and other nutrients to keep us healthy ; enough shelter to keep us dry ; enough clothing to keep us warm ; enough capital to keep us , at least potentially , productive ; and enough entertainment to keep us from being bor ed .
and we produce all of it for an average of less than two hours a day of work outside the home .
john maynard keynes was not off by much when he famously predicted in 1930 that the human race 's “ economic problem , the struggle for subsistence , '' was likely to be “ solved , or be at least within sight of solution , within a hundred years . ''
and yet there are few signs that wor king - and middle-class americans are living any better than they did 35 years ago .
even stranger , productivity growth does not seem to be soaring , as one would expect ; in fact , it seems to be deceler ating , according to research by john fern al d and bing wang , economists in the economic research department of the federal reserve bank of san francisco .
growth prospects are even worse , as innovation hits gal e- force headwinds .
one way to reconcile the changes in the job market with our lived experience and statistics like these is to note that much of what we are producing is very different from what we have made in the past .
for most of human experience , the bulk of what we produced could not be easily shared or used without permission .
the goods we made were what economists call “ rival '' and “ exclu di ble '' commodities .
being “ rival '' means that two people can not use the same product at the same time .
being “ exclu di ble '' means that the owner of a product can easily prevent others from using it .
these two traits put a great deal of bargaining power in the hands of those who control production and distribution , making them ideal for a market economy based on private property .
money naturally flows to where utility and value are being provided – and those flows are easy to track in national accounts .
but much of what we are producing in the information age is neither rival nor exclu di ble – and this changes the entire picture .
the creation of information- age goods is difficult to incenti v ize ; their distribution is hard to moneti ze ; and we lack the tools to track them easily in national accounts .
the result is an ever- growing discrepancy between what people would be willing to pay for a given service and growth as measured in national statistics .
in other words , we are producing and consuming much more than our economic indicators suggest – and the creators of many of those products are not being adequately compensated .
this produces a set of unique problems .
to ensure that the workers of today and tomorrow are able to capture the benefits of the information age will require us to re design our economic system to stimulate the creation of these new types of commodities .
in addition to developing ways to account for this new type of wealth , we will have to develop channels through which demand for a product contributes to the income of its cre ator .
only by finding ways to put true value on the goods we produce will we be able to sustain a middle-class society , rather than one of techno- plutocr ats and their service- sector ser fs .
making academia matter again
cambridge – academic freedom is a precious commodity , critical to ensure that discovery of the truth is not enc um bered by political or ideological forces .
but this does not mean that intellectuals should hide in academic bun kers that , by protecting us from criticism by “ non- experts , ” allow ego to flourish and enable a focus on questions that are not actually relevant to anyone else .
we experts should have to explain ourselves .
this means , first and foremost , that researchers should be communicating their results in a way that supports accountability and confirms that public funds and education benefits are being used in ways that are in taxpayers ’ interests .
the duty to communicate findings also ensures that the public is educated , not only about the topic itself , but also about the way research actually works .
scholarly books and journals often give the impression that the truth is revealed through a ne at , orderly , and logical process .
but research is far from being a pr ist ine landscape ; in fact , it resembles a battlefield , lit tered with mis calculations , failed experiments , and discarded assumptions .
the path to truth is often con vol uted , and those who travel along it often must navigate fierce competition and professional intrig ue .
some argue that it is better to hide this reality from the public , in order to maintain credibility .
for example , in 2014 , physicists collaborating on a project known as bic ep 2 thought that they had detected gravit ational waves from the beginning of the universe .
some of my colleagues worried that this revelation would undermine faith in other scientific predictions , such as those involving climate change .
but would hiding the truth from the public really do more for scientific and academic credibility than cultivating a culture of transparency ?
probably not .
in fact , being honest about the realities of research might enhance trust and create more space for innovation , with an informed public accepting that risk is the unavoidable and worthwhile cost of groundbreaking and broadly beneficial discoveries .
another way to ensure that academia continues to innovate in useful and relevant ways is to bl ur the traditional boundaries among disciplines – the frontiers where invention so often happens .
to that end , universities should update their organizational structure , moving away from clearly del ine ated departments in order to create a kind of continu um across the arts , humanities , and sciences .
students should be encouraged to take courses in multiple disciplines , so that they can wea ve those lessons and experiences into new patterns of knowledge .
to make this process sustainable , universities should ensure that the courses and curricula they offer help students to develop the skills that a fast- changing labor market demands .
this means not just creating new curricula today , but also up dating them every few years , in order to account for new trends and discoveries in areas ranging from artificial intelligence and big data to alternative energy sources and genome editing .
professors , for their part , should approach their job as ment ors of future leaders in science , technology , the arts , and humanities , rather than attempting to mold students in their own intellectual image .
of course , the latter approach can be useful if the goal is to advance the popularity of one ’ s own research program and to ensure that one ’ s own ideas and perspective endure .
but that is not the fundamental mission of academia .
the louder the consensus in the echo chambers of academia become , the greater the ego boost for those who in habit those chambers .
but history shows that progress is sometimes advocated by a soft voice in the background , like that of albert einstein during his early career .
truth and consensus are not always the same .
diversity of opinion – which implies diversity of gender , ethnicity , and background – is vital to support creativity , discovery , and progress .
that is why it is so important for prizes and professional associations to be used not to reinforce mainstream perspectives , but rather to encourage independent thought and reward innovation .
this does not mean that all opinions should be considered equal , but rather that alternative views should be debated and ve tted on merit alone .
we in academia can not continue to p at ourselves on the back , celebrating our own privileges and failing to look at the world in new and relevant ways .
if we are to defend the freedom of our enterprise , we must restore dialogue with the broader public and ensure that the relevance of our work is well understood – including by us .
the closing of the academic mind
london – i would w ager that i have been chancellor of more universities than anyone alive today .
this is partly because when i was governor of hong kong , i was made chancellor of every university in the city .
i protested that it would surely be better for the universities to choose their own constitutional heads .
but the universities would not allow me to resign gr ac efully .
so for five years i enjoyed the experience of giving tens of thousands of students their degrees and watching what this r ite of passage meant for them and their families .
when i came back to britain in 1997 , i was asked to become chancellor of new cast le university .
then , in 2003 , i was elected chancellor by the graduates of oxford university , one of the world ’ s greatest institutions of learning .
so it should not be surprising that i have strong views about what it means to be a university and to teach , do research , or study at one .
they should be free from government interference in their primary purposes of research and teaching ; and they should control their own academic governance .
i do not believe it is possible for a university to become or remain a world-class institution if these conditions do not exist .
the role of a university is to promote the clash of ideas , to test the results of research with other scholars , and to im part new knowledge to students .
freedom of speech is thus fundamental to what universities are , enabling them to sustain a sense of common humanity and uphold the mutual tolerance and understanding that underpin any free society .
that , of course , makes universities dangerous to authoritarian governments , which seek to stifle the ability to raise and attempt to answer difficult questions .
but if any denial of academic liberty is a blow struck against the meaning of a university , the irony today is that some of the most worrying attacks on these values have been coming from inside universities .
in the united states and the united kingdom , some students and teachers now seek to constrain argument and debate .
they contend that people should not be exposed to ideas with which they strongly disagree .
moreover , they argue that history should be re written to exp un ge the names ( though not the endowments ) of those who fail to pass today ’ s tests of political correc tness .
thomas je ffer son and c ec il r ho des , among others , have been targeted .
and how would churchill and washington fare if the same tests were applied to them ?
some people are being denied the chance to speak as well – so-called “ no plat forming ” , in the aw ful jargon of some clearly not very literate camp uses .
there are calls for “ safe spaces ” where students can be protected from anything that assaults their sense of what is moral and appropriate .
this reflects and inevitably nur tures a harmful politics of victim ization – defining one ’ s own identity ( and thus one ’ s interests ) in opposition to others .
when i was a student 50 years ago , my principal teacher was a leading marxist historian and former member of the communist party .
the british security services were deeply suspicious of him .
he was a great historian and teacher , but these days i might be encouraged to think that he had threatened my “ safe space . ”
in fact , he made me a great deal better informed , more open to discussion of ideas that challenged my own , more capable of distinguishing between an argument and a quar rel , and more prepared to think for myself .
of course , some ideas – incitement of racial hatred , gender hostility , or political violence – are anathema in every free society .
liberty requires some limits ( decided freely by democratic argument under the rule of law ) in order to exist .
universities should be trusted to exercise that degree of control themselves .
but intolerance of debate , of discussion , and of particular branches of scholar ship should never be tolerated .
as the great political philosopher karl pop per taught us , the only thing we should be intoler ant of is intolerance itself .
that is especially true at universities .
yet some american and british academics and students are themselves undermining freedom ; paradoxically , they have the liberty to do so .
meanwhile , universities in china and hong kong are faced with threats to their autonomy and freedom , not from within , but from an authoritarian government .
in hong kong , the autonomy of universities and free speech itself , guaranteed in the city ’ s basic law and the 50- year treaty between britain and china on the city ’ s status , are under threat .
the rationale seems to be that , because students strongly supported the pro-democracy protests in 2014 , the universities where they study should be brought to heel .
so the city ’ s government blunders away , stir ring up trouble , clearly on the orders of the government in beijing .
the five were publishing books that exposed some of the dirty secrets of china ’ s leaders .
on the mainland , the chinese communist party has launched the biggest crackdown on universities since the aftermath of the killings in tiananmen square in 1989 .
there is to be no discussion of so-called western values in china ’ s universities . only marxism can be taught .
did no one tell president xi jinping and his politburo colleagues where karl marx came from ?
the trouble these days is precisely that they know little about marx but a lot about lenin .
westerners should take a closer interest in what is happening in china ’ s universities and what that tells us about the real values underpinning scholar ship , teaching , and the academy .
compare and contrast , as students are asked to do .
do you want universities where the government decides what it is allegedly safe for you to learn and discuss ?
or do you want universities that regard the idea of a “ safe space ” – in terms of closing down debate in case it off ends someone – as an oxy mor on in an academic setting ?
western students should think occasionally about their counterparts in hong kong and china who must fight for freedoms that they take for granted – and too often abuse .
the new brain drain in science
dubai – in december 2013 , the nobel laureate physicist peter higgs told the guardian that if he were seeking a job in academia today , “ i don ’ t think i would be regarded as productive enough . ”
having published fewer than ten papers since his groundbreaking work in 1964 , higgs believes that no university would employ him nowadays .
academics are well acqu ain ted with the notion of “ publish or per ish . ”
they must publish their work in peer- reviewed journals increasingly often to climb the career ladder , protect their jobs , and secure funding for their institutions .
but what happens to scientists and other scholars , such as those in the middle east , who have different research concerns from – and scant connections to – the professional journals that can make or break an academ ic / scientific career ?
scholars and institutions with high publishing rates in the established journals receive better productivity scores , which translate into bigger rewards , in terms of enhanced careers and greater research funding .
whether the work they are publishing has a measurable impact on their field of study is , sadly , too often a secondary concern .
the incentives they face mean that quantity often comes before quality .
academic journals determine the various disciplinary rankings that academic institutions are compelled to climb , which leads institutions to hire and retain only those scholars who can produce at high rates .
this has given rise to a deeper , tw of old problem : academic journals have become disproportionately influential , and they have placed a premium on empirical research .
with respect to the first problem , journals are gradually replacing institutions as the arbit ers of quality within academic communities .
scholars in almost any discipline seeking jobs at “ a- level ” institutions must publish in a select few a- level journals that are seen as gat e ways .
these journals ’ editorial boards increasingly privilege posi tiv ist theoretical work – meaning research that is based on empirical data analysis .
qual itative research – such as eth no graph ies , particip atory surveys , and case studies – is often designated as suitable only for b - and c - level journals .
academics conducting empirical research have a big advantage over those carrying out qual itative work , because they can use efficient software and powerful computers to test their hypo thes es quickly and account for different variables in data sets .
this kind of work can be cheaper , too , because a single data set can generate multiple journal articles .
to be sure , there is nothing wrong with scientific practices evolving along with technology , or with academics using richer data sets and better software .
but adoption of this quantitative approach should not be the single most important criterion for assessing scientific excellence and deciding career trajec tories .
the posi tiv ist trend in science today is particularly problematic for developing countries , where data sets are scarce and often of poor quality .
thus , scientists working in developing countries face a dilemma : either work on rich - world problems for which there is abundant data , or risk career advancement by conducting qual itative work that will not make it into a- level journals .
academics who move from data- rich countries in europe and north america to data- poor countries in the middle east and elsewhere often face this problem .
as researchers at my institution in abu dhabi know , conducting surveys for qual itative research is feasible ; but generating rich data from scratch for theor y- building research is extremely difficult .
at the international conference on science and technology indicators this year , a french academic resear ching soil in africa reported that only 5 % of the published work in his field has originated from african researchers .
when he du g deeper into his own research , he found that 50 % of what he had learned about african soil came from african researchers , who have not or could not publish their work in international academic journals .
countries where english is not the lingu a franc a are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english- language journals call the shots .
non- english academic journals simply do not command the same attention in the science community .
as a result , the scope of research topics that many countries can undertake is limited , and they must struggle to retain scientific talent .
this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments are struggling to diversify their economies , in order to make them more resilient .
as english- language empir ic al- research journals consolidate their hold on the channels that determine whether or not a scientist will have a successful career , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive footing .
but even – or especially – if developing countries do make such investments , much will be lost to science .
with ( mostly ) united stat es-based academic journals re igning over global science , no one has to move to become part of a new brain drain , whereby scientists ’ research priorities , problems , and methods gravit ate to the dominant posi tiv ist ep ist em ology , at the expense of all alternatives .
closing the financial services ’ acces sibility gap
k amp ala – last month , the united kingdom hosted the first-ever global disability summit to help focus the world ’ s attention on the needs of people with disabilities .
the agenda was packed with topics like building equitable education , ending discrimination , and bringing technology to disabled communities – especially poor countries in the global south .
but one challenge that did not receive the attention it deserved is an often- overlooked component of development policy : access to financial services .
this was a missed opportunity – not only for the world ’ s one billion disabled people , but also for the institutions that should be serving them .
increasing the acces sibility of financial services is good for business and economic growth .
according to research by bar cl ays , when customers with disabilities are able to manage their money , economic vulnerability declines and overall economic health improves .
moreover , with more than $ 1 trillion in disposable income , the so-called disability market is among the biggest potential client bases in the world . in other words , financial- service providers have every reason to c ater to people with disabilities .
why , then , are most businesses doing just the opposite ?
one reason is a lack of awareness .
because people with disabilities typically have less income than their non disabled peers , service providers have often lacked an incentive to extend support to them .
but , with more attention being paid to total market potential , financial institutions are starting to adjust their product lines accordingly .
as they do , four issues must be addressed to maximize the benefits for customers with acces sibility challenges .
first , financial-services companies must work harder to understand the needs of current and future clients .
for example , with better data , a bank in a particular market could improve the acces sibility of its mobile- banking platforms .
this is essentially what happened at standard char tered bank in india last year , when employees developed a voic e- assisted system to help vis ually impaired customers access their accounts online .
second , engagement must not stop with innovative products ; it must also be extended to the labor market .
simply put , the financial-services industry should hire more people with disabilities by investing in ass is tive technologies like bra ille readers and alternative and aug ment ative communication devices .
the need to diversify the workforce is particularly acute in the united states , where one in five people has a disability .
third , people with disabilities must always be included in discussions about how to expand and strengthen financial independence .
in 2013 , when the l loy ds banking group convened a focus group to examine the effects of dem enti a on customer behavior , engagement with clients led to the charter on dem enti a- friendly financial services .
this innovative document co di fied how banks should tail or products to clients with cognitive impa ir ments .
future initiatives should follow this collaborative model to ensure that decision-making at all levels is facilitated by human- centered design .
and , lastly , governments must commit to addressing this issue , by em ulating the action of countries like the uk , which has linked services for the disabled to development funding .
with the right support , progress on these complex challenges can be sweeping ; for example , at financial sector deepening uganda , where i work , we are using british aid money to extend financial services to the disabled in rural communities .
our vision is to encourage the emergence of similar programs in many other countries around the world .
with 91 countries having already ratified the op tional protocol to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities , it is clear that there is plenty of political support for these initiatives .
the challenge now is to turn pledges into action .
in the coming decades , the world ’ s disabled population will grow as medical advances allow people to live longer , healthier , ful ler lives .
providing the disabled with access to financial services and products is among the best ways to guard against discrimination and nurture long-term empowerment .
full financial inclusion will come slowly for a community often referred to as the “ fastest-growing minority group in the world . ”
the task for activists , advocates , enlightened business leaders , and policymakers is to highlight the social and economic benefits of success .
surgery for all
boston – on a recent trip to india , i hailed a ric k sha w that was ped aled , i soon noticed , by a man with a l ame leg .
it turns out that a few weeks earlier , the driver had been hit by a car while navigating the busy streets of new delhi .
although he had managed to obtain medication from a local pharm acy for the agon izing pain – probably because his leg was broken – he could spare neither the time nor the money to see a surge on .
this type of tragic calculus is strikingly common .
the lanc et commission on global surgery estimates that some five billion people – almost 70 % of the world ’ s population – lack access to safe , affordable surgical and an es thetic care , while 33 million people are saddled with un bear ably high health expenses .
not surprisingly , the global poor suffer disproportionately : while low-income countries are home to close to 35 % of humanity , they account for just 3.5 % of all surgical procedures .
one of the biggest obstacles to achieving universal health coverage – which the united nations has declared a global goal – is financing .
and , paradoxical as it may sound , one of the best ways that governments can get the money they need to expand coverage is by making surgery more widely available .
time- sensitive health problems – such as injuries from traffic accidents and pregn anc y- related complications – are among the leading causes of death and disability in low- and middle-income countries .
but un treated or under treated conditions requiring surgery also hurt economic productivity .
for example , the lanc et study estimated that the failure to improve surgical care in developing countries would translate into $ 1 2.3 trillion of lost economic output by 2030 .
failure to maintain strong surgical capacity could even undercut economic gains made by middle-income countries , reducing total gdp growth by approximately 2 % annually .
when faced with tough budget choices , governments often favor programs that combat infectious and chronic diseases , leaving people like my ric k sha w driver in the lur ch .
but a growing body of evidence suggests that these views are misplaced .
when researchers at the harvard medical school analyzed surgical interventions in low- and middle-income countries , they found a remarkable disconnect between economic assumptions and reality .
for example , they calculated that money spent on c es are an sections and joint sur ger ies yields higher returns than spending on the management of hiv or heart disease .
to be sure , chronic and infectious diseases need our attention , too ; we can not restructure health systems overnight , nor should we turn our backs on those being treated for non- surgical illnesses .
but reforms that focus more attention on the importance of surgery would boost economic productivity and help create more equitable health care for everyone .
for starters , health ministries and physician organizations should formally recognize that surgical and an es thetic care are an essential part of universal health coverage .
to make this case , health-care providers will need to improve their collection and analysis of data on surgical outcomes , which would increase transparency on mortality and mor b idity and strengthen overall accountability .
decisions about how to expand services could be guided by the lanc et commission ’ s core indicators on “ preparedness , ” “ delivery , ” and “ impact ” of surgical care .
second , to pool risk and guard against cost over runs , countries that are considering universal coverage policies should put surgical care under publicly financed plans .
while some funding for expanding surgical services could come from taxation , health-care providers should also explore innovative financing options – such as “ social justice models , ” whereby people pay according to their means .
finally , to stream line resources and increase surgical capacity , hospitals should explore t as k- sharing , whereby non- emergency cases are referred to licensed nurses and physician assist ants .
longer-term strategies include investing more in medical education to bolster the ranks of doctors and surge ons .
the tremendous economic progress that many developing countries have made in recent decades has been largely driven by vibrant , young , and ambitious populations .
one of the most effective ways to maintain this growth and development is to ensure access to safe and affordable healthcare – including surgery .
while the cost of providing it may be high , the cost of not providing it is even higher .
polluters must pay
new york – when bp and its drilling partners caused the deep water horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010 , the united states government demanded that bp finance the clean up , compensate those who suffered damages , and pay criminal penalties for the violations that led to the disaster .
bp has already committed more than $ 20 billion in remedi ation and penalties .
based on a settlement last week , bp will now pay the largest criminal penalty in us history – $ 4.5 billion .
the same standards for environmental clean up need to be applied to global companies operating in poorer countries , where their power has typically been so great relative to that of governments that many act with impunity , wre aking havoc on the environment with little or no accountability .
as we enter a new era of sustainable development , impunity must turn to responsibility .
polluters must pay , whether in rich or poor countries .
major companies need to accept responsibility for their actions .
nigeria has been exhibit a of corporate environmental impunity .
for decades , major oil companies , including shell , exxonmobil , and ch ev ron , have been producing oil in the niger delta , an ec ologically fragile environment of freshwater sw amp forests , man gro ves , low land rain forests , and coastal barrier islands .
this rich habitat supports remarkable biodiversity – or did before the oil companies got there – and more than 30 million local inhabitants , who depend on the local ecosystems for their health and livelihoods .
twenty years ago , the international union for conservation of nature and natural resources classified the niger delta as a region of high biodiversity of marine and coastal flor a and fa una – tree species , fish , birds , and mam m als , among other forms of life – and therefore rated it as a very high priority for conservation .
yet it also noted that the region ’ s biodiversity was under massive threat , with little or no protection .
one estimate puts the cumulative sp ills over the past 50 years at approximately 10 million barrels – twice the size of the bp spill .
the data are uncertain : there have been many thousands of sp ills during this period – often poorly documented and their magnitude hidden or simply un measured by either the companies or the government .
indeed , just as bp was being hit with new criminal penalties , exxonmobil announced yet another pipeline leak in the niger delta .
the environmental destruction of the delta is part of a larger saga : corrupt companies operating hand in hand with corrupt government officials .
the companies routinely br ibe officials to gain oil le ases , lie about output , evade taxes , and do dge responsibility for the environmental damage that they cause .
nigerian officials have become fab ul ously wealthy , owing to decades of pay offs by international companies that have pl under ed the delta ’ s natural wealth .
shell , the largest foreign oper ator in the niger delta , has been criticized repeatedly for its egregious practices and its unwillingness to be held to account .
meanwhile , the local population has remained impoverished and beset by diseases caused by unsafe air , poisoned drinking water , and pollution in the food chain .
local lawlessness has led to gang warfare and persistent illegal tapping into the pipelines to steal oil , leading to further massive oil sp ills and frequent explo sions that kill dozens , including innocent by stand ers .
in the colonial era , it was the official purpose of imperial power to extract wealth from the administered territories .
in the post- colonial period , the methods are better disguised .
when oil companies mis behave in nigeria or elsewhere , they are protected by the power of their home countries .
don ’ t mess with the companies , they are told by the united states and europe .
indeed , one of the largest bribes ( a repu ted $ 180 million ) paid in recent times in nigeria was by hal li bur ton , a company tightly intertwined with us political power .
( dick cheney went from being hal li bur ton ’ s ceo to the us vice presidency . )
last year , the united nations environment program ( un ep ) issued a remarkable report on og on il and , a major ethnic homeland in the niger delta that has been at the epicenter of conflict between local communities and international oil .
the report was as sca thing as it was scientif ically clear .
despite many past promises of a clean up , og on il and remains in environmental agony , impoverished and s ick ened by the oil industry .
un ep also offered clear and detailed recommendations , including emergency measures to ensure safe drinking water ; clean up activities targeting the man gro ves and soils ; public-health studies to identify and counteract the consequences of pollution ; and a new regulatory framework .
the world ’ s governments have recently agreed to move to a new framework for sustainable development , declaring their intention to adopt sustainable development goals at the ri o + 20 summit in june .
the sdgs offer a critical opportunity for the world to set clear , compelling standards for government and corporate behavior .
many major companies , including in the oil industry , have expressed their readiness to support sustainable development goals .
cleaning up the niger delta would provide the strongest possible example of a new age of accountability .
shell , ch ev ron , exxonmobil , and other major oil companies should step forward and help to fund the necessary clean up , ush ering in a new era of responsibility .
the nigerian government ’ s own accountability is on the line as well .
it is hear tening that several nigerian senators have recently been in the forefront of efforts to strengthen the rule of law in the oil sector .
the clean up of the niger delta provides an ideal opportunity for nigeria , the oil industry , and the international community to show convinc ingly that a new age has daw ned .
from now on , sustainable development must not be a mere slogan , but rather an operational approach to global governance and well-being on a strained and crowded planet .
saving capitalism from economics 101
this introduc tory course is typically taught with a broadly reassuring message : if markets are allowed to work , good outcomes – such as productivity growth , increasing wages , and generally shared prosperity – will surely follow .
unfortunately , as my co- author james k w ak points out in his recent book , econom ism : bad economics and the rise of inequality , ec on 101 is so far from being the whole story that it could actually be considered misleading – at least as a guide to sensible policymaking .
markets can be good , but they are also profoundly susceptible to abusive practices , including by prominent private-sector people .
this is not a theoretical concern ; it is central to our current policy debates , including important new us legislation that has just been put forward .
one core problem is that market incentives reward self- interested private behavior , without accounting for social benefits or costs .
we generally overlook our actions ’ spillover effects on others , or “ externalities . ”
to be fair , ec on 101 textbooks do discuss this issue in some contexts , such as pollution , and it is widely accepted that environmental damage needs to be regulated if we are to have clean air , clean water , and limits on other pollutants .
unfortunately , “ widely accepted ” does not include by president donald trump ’ s administration , which is busy rolling back environmental protections across a broad range of activities .
the new york times counts 76 roll backs in progress .
the thinking behind this policy is straight out of the first few weeks of ec on 101 : get out of the way of the market .
as a result , there is a lot more pollution – including more emission of greenhouse gases – in america ’ s future .
there is also an even deeper problem .
there is a general presumption in ec on 101 that firms should maximize profits , and that this is best for their shareholders and for society .
but this notion of “ firms ” is just a shor thand for people organized in a particular form . people , not firms , make decisions .
to understand the nature and impact of these decisions , we need to look closely at the incentives of firms ’ senior managers and board members .
since the 1970s , the people who run firms have become much more focused on increasing their compensation , through bonuses , stock options , and the like .
there has been a significant rise in the value of shares , most of which are owned by the wealthiest 10 % of americans .
at the same time , median wages have barely increased – a dramatic change from the immediate post-world war ii period , when productivity increases led to steady wage gains .
today , it is top managers and members of boards of directors in whose interest firms are run .
investors sometimes get a good ride , though there are plenty of instances where insiders take excessive advantage by awar ding themselves overly generous compensation , taking on excessive risk , or engaging in other , more de vious practices .
the idea that compensation committees insist on genuinely impressive performance , relative to relevant benchmarks , has become ris ible .
this is the context in which senator elizabeth warren of massachusetts is proposing a new accountable capitalism act .
very large companies would need to acquire a federal charter ( as opposed to the current state charter arrangements ) , which would come with specific obligations – in particular , the need to consider the interests of all corporate stakeholders , including workers .
to make this more meaningful and generally improve transparency , ordinary ( non- management ) employees should get some representation on the board of directors .
this type of arrangement works well in germany , a country where workers continue to be treated with respect .
warren also supports a proposal that originated from john bo g le , founder of vanguard ( a mutual fund company ) , that would require super- majority support from shareholders and directors before a large company could engage in political expenditures .
the underlying legal theory behind these proposals is sound , and it is well articulated in a letter signed by robert h oc ke tt of cor nell law school and other distinguished figures .
large corporations are granted significant rights , including limited liability for individual executives , and facilitate the pooling of large amounts of capital from people who do not necessarily know one another ( or the promo ters of the company ) .
originally , the purpose was to enable the private sector to carry out large-scale risky investments that had broader potential impact , such as building can als and rail roads .
realistically , the enforcement of antitrust law has slipped a long way in recent years , under both republican and democratic administrations .
warren is proposing a much broader rethink .
large corporations can still do well , but they need to be held accountable in a much more transparent way .
incentives for executives would be adjusted , and running these companies would no longer be so much about lining their own pockets .
workers would no longer be treated so badly , and more people might even start to believe again in the american dream of prosperity for all .
the legitimacy of capitalism – private ownership and reliance on market mechanisms – would be greatly strengthened under the accountable capitalism act .
so , yes , like it or not , this will be on the final ex am .
a center less euro can not hold
cambridge – with youth unemployment tou ching 50 % in eurozone countries such as spain and greece , is a generation being sacrificed for the sake of a single currency that encomp asses too diverse a group of countries to be sustainable ?
if so , does enlarg ing the euro ’ s membership really serve europe ’ s apparent goal of maximizing economic integration without necessarily achieving full political union ?
the good news is that economic research does have a few things to say about whether europe should have a single currency .
the bad news is that it has become increasingly clear that , at least for large countries , currency areas will be highly unstable unless they follow national borders .
at a minimum , currency unions require a confederation with far more centralized power over taxation and other policies than european leaders envision for the eurozone .
what of nobel prize winner robert mund ell ’ s famous 1961 con jec ture that national and currency borders need not significantly overlap ?
in his provocative american economic review paper “ a theory of optim um currency areas , ” mund ell argued that as long as workers could move within a currency region to where the jobs were , the region could afford to for go the equilibr ating mechanism of exchange-rate adjustment .
he credited another ( future ) nobel prize winner , james me ade , for having recognized the importance of labor mobility in earlier work , but criticized me ade for interpre ting the idea too str ing ently , especially in the context of europe ’ s nascent integration .
mund ell did not emphasize financial crises , but presumably labor mobility is more important today than ever .
not surprisingly , workers are leaving the eurozone ’ s crisis countries , but not necessarily for its stronger northern region .
instead , portuguese workers are fleeing to booming former colonies such as brazil and mac au .
irish workers are leaving in droves to canada , australia , and the united states .
spanish workers are stre aming into romania , which until recently had been a major source of agricultural labor in spain .
still , if intra- eurozone mobility were anything like mund ell ’ s ideal , today we would not be seeing 25 % unemployment in spain while germany ’ s unemployment rate is below 7 % .
later writers came to recognize that there are other essential criteria for a successful currency union , which are difficult to achieve without deep political integration .
peter ken en argued in the late 1960 ’ s that without exchange-rate movements as a shock absor ber , a currency union requires fiscal transfers as a way to share risk .
for a normal country , the national income-tax system constitutes a huge automatic stabil izer across regions .
in the us , when oil prices go up , incomes in texas and mon tan a rise , which means that these states then contribute more tax revenue to the federal budget , thereby helping out the rest of the country .
europe , of course , has no significant centralized tax authority , so this key automatic stabil izer is essentially absent .
some european academics tried to argue that there was no need for us- like fiscal transfers , because any desired degree of risk sharing can , in theory , be achieved through financial markets .
this claim was hugely misguided .
ken en was mainly concerned with short-term transfers to smooth out cyclical bump iness .
but , in a currency union with huge differences in income and development levels , the short term can stretch out for a very long time .
many germans today rightly feel that any system of fiscal transfers will mor ph into a permanent feeding tube , much the way that northern italy has been propping up southern italy for the last century .
indeed , more than 20 years on , western germans still see no end in sight for the bills from german unification .
later , maur ice obst feld pointed out that , in addition to fiscal transfers , a currency union needs clearly defined rules for the lender of last resort .
otherwise , bank runs and debt panics will be rampant .
obst feld had in mind a bailout mechanism for banks , but it is now abundantly clear that one also needs a lender of last resort and a bankruptcy mechanism for states and municipalities .
a logical cor oll ary of the criteria set forth by ken en and obst feld , and even of mund ell ’ s labor- mobility criterion , is that currency unions can not survive without political legitimacy , most likely involving regi on- wide popular elections .
europe ’ s leaders can not carry out large transfers across countries indefinitely without a coherent european political framework .
european policymakers today often complain that , were it not for the us financial crisis , the eurozone would be doing just fine .
perhaps they are right .
but any financial system must be able to withstand shocks , including big ones .
europe may never be an “ optim um ” currency area by any standard .
but , without further profound political and economic integration – which may not end up including all current eurozone members – the euro may not make it even to the end of this decade .
achieving a “ europe of results ”
brussels – the tsunami that has swept across financial markets is a global catastrophe .
if handled correctly , however , the crisis may yet raise the esteem of the european union and its institutions .
the eu ’ s legitimacy problem has two different aspects : apathy , leading to a low turnout in the european parliamentary elections , and outright euro- skepticism .
the vo ter- turnout problem partly reflects frustration about the present state of the eu , and also people ’ s impression that they can exert little influence by voting one way or the other .
euro- skepticism , on the other hand , and the looming threat of anti-european populism , is directly linked to the idea that the eu is not merely incapable of offering a solution to the crisis , but in fact is part of the problem .
so , although the eu represents our best hope of ensuring that europe is internationally competitive in today ’ s increasingly difficult environment , it is actually being blamed for globalization .
many people confuse these two aspects of the eu ’ s legitimacy problem , and believe that somehow turnout in european elections can be increased by pointing out to people how good and important the eu is .
but in most cases , this is not possible .
at first sight , the easiest answer to the problem of low voter turnout is to give more power to the european parliament .
but if this was the solution , then we would not have had steadily declining turn outs since the high point of 63 % , at the first elections to the european parliament in 1979 . after all , since then the ep ’ s influence and powers of joint decision-making have grown constantly .
the trouble is that , ep elections must be “ about ” something if voters are to be interested , which means they must involve a real choice .
and a real choice requires europe-wide election campaigns by all parties . this would also involve making the choice of the european commission ’ s president dependent on the outcome of the ep elections .
but , in fact , both of these conditions have already been met ; in 2004 , portuguese prime minister josé manuel dur ão barroso was appointed president of the commission because he came from the political organization with the strongest election result , the european people ’ s party .
and this year ’ s elections saw a more intensive presence of party organizations at european level than ever before .
the euro- skepticism problem can be tackled only if the union itself starts to perform better , and is seen to be doing so .
that is why in the aftermath of the failed referenda four years ago in france and the netherlands on the constitutional treaty , the commission tried to emphasize the idea of a “ europe of results ” that would seek to convince citizens of its worth through concrete achievements .
given the gravity of the economic crisis , the time has come for the eu to demonstrate its strengths whenever possible .
the aim must be not only to win back the hearts of europeans who have become skeptical , but also to convince them that the union is indispensable to meeting the challenges europeans face .
europe ’ s citizens understand that the relatively small nation-states that make up the eu are no longer able to face these enormous challenges on their own .
in ireland , last autumn ’ s financial crisis provoked a turnaround in public opinion about the eu , and even in iceland , although it lies on the periphery of our continent , membership of the eu and the euro have become a priority .
european countries have become so interconnected that isolated national measures on issues like financial-market regulation are hopeless .
a changing world in which new powers like china and india play an increasingly important role will not wait for europe to make up its mind .
the eu must instead show leadership through its efforts to solve the world ’ s current problems .
as for the european people ’ s party , for us the economy is not an end in itself but should serve the people .
the economic crisis was caused by short sigh tedness and a lack of control in the global financial system . now we must redefine the role of regulators in financial markets and in the wider economy , for we can not let the financial sector walk off with the profits and leave taxpayers bearing the losses .
that doesn ’ t mean that we are advocating a move to socialism ; we want better and smarter regulation , not regulation for its own sake .
we see five keys to recovery :
a “ europe of results ” is achievable .
it can strengthen the eu ’ s legitimacy , though , only if policy recommendations such as these , and the successes that result from implementing them , are commun icated clearly and effectively to the general public .
the education roadmap to 2030
london – when i visited the z a at ari refugee camp in jordan earlier this year , i met with children who told me what education means to them .
for syrian you ths who have been forced from their homes and have lost everything , education is about more than qualifications or test scores ; it embodies their hope for the future .
children like those in z a at ari , and millions of others around the world , are central to the work of the international commission on financing global education opportunity , which i joined last september .
this commission is committed to the fourth united nations sustainable development goal , which aims , by 2030 , to “ ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all . ”
this goal is still a distant prospect for far too many children .
with so many development issues demanding our attention , policymakers should bear in mind that education is not just a good in itself ; it is also a catalyst for many other development gains .
as the old african pro ver b goes , if you educate a girl , you educate an entire nation .
ensuring access to quality education for children , especially girls , will lead to fewer child marri ages and less child labor and exploitation .
and education has long-term societal benefits : aside from increased political engagement , educated children contribute intellectual capital and pursue entrepreneurial opportunities when they grow up , boosting economic growth .
tackling the education challenge needs to start from two principles embedded in the goal .
first , “ for all ” means that we must focus on the children who have been left behind .
millions of children are out of school or are receiving a sub standard education because of who they are or where they live .
according to the un high commissioner for refugees , refugee children are five times more likely to be out of school than other children in the countries to which they ’ ve been displaced .
getting these children into school will require new approaches that directly address their exclusion and make schooling genuinely accessible and relevant .
second , “ quality ” : education must be effective , so that children actually learn .
for the 61 million children who are out of primary school , formal education is beyond reach .
but , just as urgently , more than one-third of children of primary- school age – 250 million – are not learning the bas ics , according to the unesco education for all global monitoring report .
half of these children have been in school for at least four years .
we must address the barriers to learning , both in the classroom and at home , by improving the quality of teaching and classroom conditions and teaching parents how they can support their children ’ s education .
upholding these two principles will require increased investment .
last year , unesco calculated that governments must double education spending as a share of national income to achieve the 2030 goals .
this will require increased revenue from taxation and stronger efforts to collect what ’ s owed .
donors also need to live up to their aid commitments and target aid more effectively .
for example , less than one-third of education aid goes to africa , even though the region accounts for almost two-thirds of out-of- school children .
moreover , at the moment , education budgets are often regressive , with almost half of spending in the poorest countries allocated to the most educated 10 % of the population .
fixing education investment requires action in two key areas .
first , we need equitable financing , with more investment in early childhood care and development , where there is the biggest potential for returns .
budgets must be focused on the most excluded children , and primary education must be free at the point of use , so that every child can learn .
we also urgently need more transparency and accountability , so that budgets are visible and communities have a say in school governance .
second , we need to strengthen domestic education systems so that governments see themselves as the guarantor of accessible , quality schools for their citizens , rather than abdic ating that role to outside development agencies .
in particular , we should push for partnerships between government and business to boost domestic resources for education , and eliminate illicit capital flows that deprive governments of the means to fund it , such as tax evasion and money laundering across national borders .
with these priorities in mind , the education commission will deliver its recommendations at the un general assembly on september 18 , when the secretary-general will receive and act on them .
the education commission will have succeeded if we are able to leverage the funding and political will to ensure that every child lear ns , regardless of their income , location , or social status .
our work will not be complete until that happens .
sustaining progress in transition countries
new york – in the world bank ’ s most recent “ doing business ” report , half of the eastern european and central asian countries included in the global ranking were among the top 50 .
as a measure of economic maturity , the report confirms what many in the international development community have long known : the region is ascend ant .
over the last decade , the economies of eastern europe and central asia have recorded spectacular gains , buttressed by ambitious market and public-sector reforms .
the question now is how to ensure that this progress – which has tripled the size of the middle class – is sustained .
signs of the region ’ s social and economic prosperity are everywhere .
in azerbaijan , incomes have increased dramatically in recent decades , and only 5 % of the population now lives below the poverty line – down from nearly 50 % in 2002 .
elsewhere , estonia is the third country in europe in startups per person and has one of the fastest internet spe eds anywhere .
but while it is tempting to assume that the region is destined for prosperity , structural bottlenecks continue to slow progress , especially in the western balkans , the southern caucasus , and parts of central asia .
to maintain momentum in meeting the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) by 2030 , leaders must address three key issues .
first , the region ’ s economies need to be strengthened to incenti v ize smarter , more sustainable growth .
for example , fossil-fuel subsidies should be re considered , because they discourage investment in energy- efficiency projects , and impede the development of renewable technologies .
similarly , while public financing of pensions and welfare programs is dependent on taxing labor , much of the region currently suffers from high rates of unemployment ; in the western balkans , there are nearly no jobs , or none at all .
job creation is an urgent challenge for every state in the region .
second , in many countries , the space for civil society is becoming narrower , posing a threat to pluralism and accountability .
to prevent conflict and give voice to the region ’ s marginalized groups , tolerance and respect for human rights must be made essential ingredients of governance .
finally , the region must coordinate on strategies to address the changes that automation and artificial intelligence will bring to the labor market .
leaders in some countries , particularly belarus , are shifting economic output from heavy manufacturing to technology startups .
but authorities everywhere can do more to increase the resilience of their workforces .
fortunately , governments , technology companies , civil-society groups , and journalists recognize the sal i ence of these issues and are working together to build more transparent and accountable institutions .
in many countries , heads of government are using the sdgs to guide their national planning and efforts to legisl ate reforms .
the parliaments of several central asian countries have even endorsed the sdgs as a development roadmap .
changes like these are helping to translate development ambition into action .
in armenia , the government recently created the world ’ s first national sdg innovation laboratory , a collaborative effort designed to “ accelerate ” sdg implementation .
initial research efforts will focus on increasing the country ’ s tax collection , improving its education system , and boosting its renewable-energy sector .
meanwhile , planning officials in moldova have used crowd funding to raise millions of dollars from the diaspora to fund sustainable development projects at home .
revit alization efforts have included the reconstruction of a public pl az a in the capital , chi ș in ă u , and the expansion of infrastructure in rural areas .
the region ’ s private sector is also participating actively in sustainable development efforts .
from si em ens ’ green heating and air conditioning systems to unil ever ’ s “ equal pay for equal work ” policy , multinational firms operating in eastern europe and central asia are embracing sustainability and equality as viable business models .
in only a few decades , the people of eastern europe and central asia have witnessed profound political and economic changes .
to capitalize on the development progress already made , countries and organizations must learn from one another , adapting solutions to local conditions .
that will be the main topic at the istanbul development dial og ues , an annual global gathering organized by the un development programme , this week .
as the new und p strategic plan for 201 8- 2021 argues , collaboration is a critical component to any sustain able- development strategy .
if the measure of a country can be calculated by how easily business is conducted within its borders , the states of eastern europe and central asia have a bright future .
with strong leadership that trans forms the region ’ s economies and modern izes its institutions , the region ’ s recent gains will not be fle eting .
the ach illes ’ heel of trum pon omics
new haven – donald trump ’ s economic strategy is severely flawed .
this points to a further com pression in national saving , making a widening of an already outsize trade gap all but inevitable .
that dynamic un mas ks the ach illes ’ heel of trum pon omics : a blatant protectionist bias that col li des head-on with america ’ s inescapable reliance on foreign saving and trade deficits to sustain economic growth .
the trump administration will not inherit a strong and sound us economy .
the pace of recovery since the great recession has been running at half that of normal cyclical reb ounds – all the more disturbing given the massive size of the contraction in 2008- 0 9 .
and savings , the seed corn of future prosperity , remain in woefully short supply .
the so-called net national saving rate – the depreci ation- adjusted sum of business , household , and government saving – stood at just 2.4 % of national income in mid- 2016 .
while that ’ s an improvement from the unprecedented negative saving position in 2008- 2011 , it remains far short of the 6. 3 % average that prevailed over the final three decades of the twentieth century .
this is important because it explains the pernicious trade deficits that trump continues to rail against .
lacking in saving and wanting to grow , the united states must import surplus saving from abroad .
and the only way to attract that foreign capital is by running massive current-account and trade deficits .
the numbers bear this out : since 2000 , when national saving fell well below trend , the current-account deficit has widened to an average of 3.8 % of gdp – nearly four times the 1 % gap from 1970 to 1999 .
similarly , the net export deficit – the broad est measure of a country ’ s trade imbalance – has been 4 % of gdp since 2000 , versus an average of 1.1 % over the final three decades of the twentieth century .
trum pon omics has the cause and effect behind this development back wards .
it fix ates on country- specific sources of the trade deficit , like china and mexico , but misses the fundamental point that these bilateral deficits are symptoms of america ’ s far deeper saving problem .
presum e for the moment that the us clos es down trade with china and mexico – the first and fourth largest components of the overall trade deficit – through a combination of tariffs and other protectionist measures ( including the proposed renegotiation of nafta and a mexic an- funded border wall ) .
without addressing america ’ s chronic saving shortage , the chinese and mexican components of the trade deficit would simply be re distributed to other countries – most likely to higher- cost producers .
the result would be the functional equivalent of a tax hike on beleaguered middle-class us families .
in short , there is no bilateral fix for a multilateral problem .
the us had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be effectively addressed through country- specific “ remedies . ”
that ’ s not to say that america ’ s trading partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices .
but it does mean that there is limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits – and the related erosion of domestic hiring trac eable to these imbalances – if the us doesn ’ t start saving again .
alas , this plot is about to th ic ken .
trum pon omics seems likely to exacerbate america ’ s saving shortfall in the years ahead .
analyses by the tax policy center , the tax foundation , and mo ody ’ s analytics all indicate that federal budget deficits under trump ’ s economic plan are headed back toward at least 7 % of gdp over the next ten years .
trump ’ s senior economic-policy advisers , peter nav arr o and wil bur  ross ( trump 's pick for commerce secretary ) , argued in a position paper in september that these estimates are flawed , because they don ’ t take into account “ growth- inducing wind falls ” from regulatory and energy reforms , or the added bon an za that should arise from a sharp narrowing of america ’ s trade deficit .
indeed , the nav ar ro - ross analysis attributes fully 73 % of the growth- inducing revenue windfall of trum pon omics to a massive improvement in the overall trade balance over the next decade .
yet , as stressed above , barring a mirac ulous surge in national saving , this is highly dubious .
creative accounting , long a staple of supply-side economics , has never been more imagin ative .
there in lies one of the most glaring dis connects of trum pon omics .
even the most conservative estimates of the federal budget deficit suggest that the already- depressed net national saving rate could re- enter negative territory at some point in the 201 8- 2019 period .
that would put renewed pressure on the current-account and trade deficits , making it extremely difficult to reverse the loss of jobs and income that politicians are quick to blame on america ’ s trading partners .
ironically , in the coming era of negative saving , the us will find itself increasingly dependent on surplus saving from abroad .
if the trump administration takes aim at major foreign lenders – namely , china – its strategy could quickly backfire .
at a minimum , there could be an adverse impact on the terms by which america borrows from abroad ; that could mean higher interest rates – hints of which are already evident – and ultimately downward pressure on the dollar .
and , of course , there is the worst-case scenario of an escalating global trade war .
protectionism , anemic saving , and deficit spending make for an especially toxic co ck tail .
under trum pon omics , it will be exceedingly difficult to make america great again .
a clar ion call for emerging markets
ith aca – with 2012 underway , it is worth reflecting on how a decade of strong economic growth in emerging markets led to last year ’ s resounding political transformations .
from the dramatic events in the middle east , to the ground swell of support for the anti-corruption crus ad er anna haz are in india , leaders in emerging markets are getting a clear message from the streets that growth is not everything .
they ignore this message at their peril .
emerging-market economies delivered solid growth during the 2000 ’ s , and even survived the global financial crisis without a growth collapse .
but the specter of rising corruption is compromising the legitimacy of their economic gains and eroding support for further reforms needed to sustain their growth momentum .
corruption takes many forms , but , in emerging markets , a combination of factors has turned it into a cancer that ultimately top ples regimes .
relentless low- level corruption is a major irr itant for poor people in many of these countries ; indeed , it limits their access to the social services and basic government functions that they often depend upon for their very survival .
another type of corruption involves si ph oning enormous sums of money from large-scale projects .
in india , for example , the government lost as much as $ 30- 40 billion of much-needed revenue when co ve ted band spectrum was sold through a rigged auc tion .
for ordinary people , large-scale corruption is less visible , because , while the sums involved are min d- bo ggling , the costs are not as directly felt as they are in the case of lower- level graft .
but the perception of this type of mega- corruption has changed as rapid growth has increased inequality .
in countries like china and india , rapid economic growth has lifted a huge number of people out of poverty .
but the fruits of globalization and rapid growth have not been evenly shared – the rich become super-rich , even as a large fraction of the population remains destitu te .
rising income inequality is hardly limited to emerging markets , but their combination of open corruption and pervasive inequities creates a toxic brew that is undermining support for reforms that would strengthen and consolidate their economic gains .
in many emerging markets , a lack of political freedom adds to the combus tible mix .
the combination of corruption , inequality , and political repression builds up enormous pressure , and there are no institutional channels through which to release it .
but freer political regimes are not a panacea .
in a democracy like india ’ s , the politically well- connected benefit from skewed growth , thus increasing the resentment of those left behind .
the opportunity to “ throw the r asc als out ” in each election cycle helps to let off some steam , but it does not resolve the problems that are generating it .
it is difficult to predict what triggers popular protest , but economic factors are key .
with swel ling urban populations , it will become increasingly difficult to keep a li d on these pressures .
some governments have reacted to recent events with political repression , information black outs , or a combination of authoritarian measures .
china , for example , blocked media coverage of the egyptian protests .
the arab spring , however , reveals the fragility of repressive political regimes that try to maintain their legitimacy by limiting information flows .
the main lesson for dynamic emerging-market countries is that an exclusive focus on gdp growth may ultimately not be good for economic and political stability .
even with rapid increases in national income , if these countries ’ leaders do not distribute the benefits fairly , they will become vulnerable to popular discontent .
tackling corruption is critical to improving long-term growth and maintaining social stability .
these economies need measures that help to keep the poor out of poverty traps , and that give them realistic opportunities to improve their economic well-being .
such steps include broadening financial markets to give more people access to credit and investment , strengthening social safety nets to protect the economically vulnerable , and improving educational access and quality .
these lessons apply equally to advanced economies , which also suffer from rising inequality and subtle forms of corruption .
but , for those wealthy economies , restoring decent growth is now the major priority .
emerging markets have a golden opportunity to build on their economic gains and lock in growth and stability by tackling deep-seated problems like corruption .
as the past year ’ s events have shown , the costs of inaction could be calam itous .
a climate deal is not enough
amsterdam – during the cop 15 climate summit in copenhagen , world leaders have been negotiating the future of our planet . all the signs suggest that they are unlikely to sign a global climate treaty .
the politicians , civil servants , and other participants at the copenhagen summit have mainly been bombar ding each other with numbers .
figures on how much various countries should reduce co2 emissions , the amount of money they should put up in coming years , the exact nature of their responsibilities , how much temperature increase earth will be able to endure , and how long we can continue to wait .
these are all very important issues .
but the mere figures are simply not enough . a different approach to the problem of climate change is needed .
the climate issue can only be solved on the basis of shared , deeply felt ethical principles .
humanity has reached a critical moment in earth ’ s history , at which peoples and nations will have to recognize their solidarity – with each other and with the earth – and start acting upon it .
similar to the way world leaders adopted the united nations millennium declaration in september 2000 , and embraced the resulting millennium development goals , today ’ s climate negotiators will have to commit themselves to creating a basis of shared fundamental ethical principles .
such a basis is not hard to find .
its inspiration can be the earth charter , which , launched in 2000 , was initiated by , among others , former ussr president mikhail gorbachev and w ang ari ma tha ai , who received the 2004 nobel peace prize for her efforts in the green belt movement , a pan- african tre e- planting initiative .
the climate problem does not stop at borders .
in the next few decades , a low- lying country like the netherlands will need to invest billions of euros to intensify its age-old struggle against rising water .
but in many other countries , the water is already flooding over the di kes , both literally and fig ur atively .
climate change affects particularly those countries that lack the money needed to take adequate measures against rising sea levels , persistent droughts , or devastating storms , even though they had nothing to do with the primary cause of these problems – industrialization in the developed countries .
apart from the necessary , often infra structural adap tations to survive the effects of climate change , enormous efforts to prevent even worse things from happening are required .
in devising solutions , the role of women should be the main focus .
women are often the first people who have to address the problem of gaining access to natural resources , and they are capable of playing a major role as pione ers in finding solutions to climate change and the way humankind should adapt to it .
in the short term , the world should become a sustainable global society of low co2 emitters .
this is a mission for all humankind , in which patriotic feelings and thinking in terms of power blocs have no place .
the pursuit of a sustainable global society of low co2 emitters requires a tremendous effort .
precisely for this reason , it also requires a broadly shared ethical basis .
this would guide the negotiating parties in such a way that they look not only for solutions to a part of the problem , but first and foremost at a comprehensive solution to the entire problem .
the climate change issue is too important to be left in the care of politicians .
in copenhagen , it is therefore imperative that not only nation states , but the business community and citizens combine their efforts to save our planet ’ s climate . that is not only a scientific necessity ; it is an ethical imperative .
a communist party without communism
princeton – russian president vladimir putin ’ s ano int ment of alexander medvedev to succeed him in what is supposed to be a democratic presidential election next march shows that russia ’ s leaders have not changed a wh it .
it looks increasingly likely that , as under leonid brezhnev , we will see the same names in the news for decades to come .
according to g le b pav lo v sky , the putin regime ’ s leading ideolog ist , the current russian system is perfect in all respects but one : it doesn ’ t know its enemies .
indeed , it seems as if everyone in the kremlin is reading carl sch mitt , the nazi legal theorist who taught that naming your enemy is the central mission of politics .
in the spirit of sch mitt , putin ’ s men designated a liberal party , the union of right forces , as their ur - enemy .
its public meetings were broken up by armed police ; its leaders arrested and beaten ; putin called its supporters “ co yo tes . ”
what is surprising is that this aggressive behavior occurred in response to no visible danger .
oil prices are soaring , as are putin ’ s approval ratings .
his appointees control everything that matters , from gazprom to the central electoral committee .
since the pac ification of chechnya with violence and subsidies , the incarceration or emigration of a few financially viable opponents , and the massive “ social investments ” of recent years , which , under medvedev ’ s personal supervision , have br ibed the population , no credible force can seriously challenge putin ’ s men .
yet their regime is in crisis , and they know it .
russia ’ s economy is more dependent on gas and oil than ever before .
military reform has been reversed .
despite increasing incomes , russians are less educated and less healthy than they were when putin came to power ; they still die at a shoc kingly young age .
russian involvement in world affairs is tainted by poison and corruption .
state monopolies undo what private businesses created .
with more money , ill- educated bureaucrats hire more ill- educated bureaucrats ; as a result , the regime fails to rule the country .
the country is unru ly , and its rulers know it .
so they panic .
his generation of kgb officers watched the collapse of the communist party and all the governmental bodies that it “ directed and controlled , ” including the kgb .
under putin , the security service has had its revenge .
its people have become powerful , arrogant , and enormously rich .
they have also become dis obedi ent .
in 2004 , general viktor cher kes ov , then putin ’ s representative in northwest russia , published an essay that glor ified the kgb as the only un spo iled authority in a corrup ted country .
this essay , more than anything else , defined putin ’ s second term .
in october 2007 , cher kes ov ( now chief of one of the most obscure and powerful services , the federal anti- drug administration ) published another essay in which he lamented his colleagues ’ degradation : warriors had turned into traders , he complained .
earlier , generals from a competing service , the fsb , had arrested cher kes ov ’ s deputy for “ illegal bu gging . ”
in a public gesture of despair , cher kes ov admitted the failure of putin ’ s project to re anim ate russian governance by subordin ating it to the security services .
cher kes ov ’ s deputy remains in prison .
most believe that putin is unable to intervene in his defense .
in the absence of communist party control , these security officers betrayed their corporate ethic and engaged in hor se- trading , applying force when a trade did not go well .
that this happens to ordinary russians is clear ; what cher kes ov revealed was that putin ’ s circle also confronts this situation .
what is to be done when ex- kgb warriors turn their s words and bugs against one another ?
cher kes ov ’ s case exemp lifies putin ’ s nightmare .
but if your instincts betr ay you , you go back to even deeper ones .
now that putin ’ s people have left their predecessors ’ neo-liberal ideas behind and feel disenchan ted with the ex- kgb c liqu e , the task is to recre ate an omni present political party that controls the security services , the administration , business , and much else .
this party will be centralized under personal leadership and will reduce the state to a legal fiction .
pre aching nationalism , its managers will believe in their universal competence , as opposed to kg b- style professi onalism and corporatism .
boris yeltsin forb ade party cells in state-controlled institutions by decre e .
putin ’ s lawyers will reverse that decision ; the party will have cells or committees in every factory , corporation , military unit , university department , etc .
integrated by the leader ’ s charisma and party discipline , party members will direct and unify the des ol ated country .
this is putin ’ s plan .
like former soviet leader y uri and ro po v , the only other kgb man to rule russia , putin will become the party ’ s general secretary .
as in the soviet era , state and governmental officials will be reduced to party ci ph ers – the role that president medvedev will play under general secretary putin .
and , of course , being general secretary carries no constitutional term limit .
in the end , putin has what history left him : not ideas , just a faction yearning to consolidate its grip on power .
lenin and tro t sky needed a party to make their ideology a reality ; putin and medvedev are devising an ideology to solidi fy their party .
it is a bizarre ideology .
it will subordinate all who really do work – traders , warriors , journalists , and others – to party ideologues whose sole job is to search for enemies .
a con federal solution for palestine
london – last month , while in new york city , i happened to be staying in the same hotel as israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu .
to accommodate his security needs , the hotel had been converted into a for tress , much like israel itself .
netanyahu was in the united states for yet another round of middle east peace talks .
the us offered various swe e ten ers to induce israel to freeze its west bank settlement construction for another 90 days .
the israelis refused ; another impasse was reached .
what , then , might be the prospects of a negotiated peace between two peoples with claims to the same land ?
the answer is : very poor .
all peace efforts since the oslo accords of 1993 have been based on the “ two-state solution , ” according to which israel is supposed to turn over the occupied territories to a palestinian state , the palestinians are supposed to renounce any claims on the jewish state , and everyone is supposed to live happily ever after .
a negotiated “ land for peace ” solution still remains official western doctrine .
as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in a recent speech , “ a just , lasting , and comprehensive peace ” has to be based on “ two states for two peoples . ”
meanwhile , the two main parties to the dispute , palestine and israel , are searching for unilateral alternatives to the stym ied “ peace process . ”
the palestinians are pushing for international recognition of their statehood , while the israelis are using their settlement policy to pre empt a palestinian state .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas has said that , if the latest peace talks collapse , he will press for un recognition of a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders .
this month , brazil and argentina recognized “ palestine , ” and a casc ade of latin american countries is expected to follow .
abbas is now setting his sights on europe , and would ask turkey to serve as a go- between .
the game is to use international recognition of an independent palestinian state to pressure the us to retreat from its almost unconditional support for israeli policy .
israel ’ s main concern continues to be security .
the official western doctrine is that israel ’ s long-term security depends on the success of the “ peace process . ”
in practice , israel has been taking other measures to secure its future .
media attention has been focused on the “ security wall , ” which has certainly succeeded in reducing the level of violence .
but , to the hawks who now control israeli politics , the key to israel ’ s security depends on depth of defense , for which expansion of the settlements is indispensable .
the hawks ’ recipe for survival is thre ef old : continued military and economic support from the us , def ensible frontiers through a strategic settlement program , and the car ve- up of the palestinian west bank into disconnected ban tu st ans , or subordinate authorities , incapable of concerted opposition to israeli policy .
thus , while abbas seeks to create a new “ fact on the ground ” by dr um ming up international support for a palestinian state , israel aims to trump him by making such a state un viable .
the ideal alternative to both strategies is a peace process that aims not to create two states , but rather to establish the political and economic basis for a single con federal state .
indeed , the two-state solution was always an illusion .
there was never enough land to satisfy the passionate poss essi veness of all those with claims to it .
and , over time , israeli settl er disengagement from the west bank and east jerusalem has become just as impossible as any attempt by israel to exp el its remaining arabs .
these are the “ facts on the ground ” that doom palestinian hopes for a sovereign palestinian state no less than israeli hopes for a wholly jewish state .
moreover , land for peace never made sense from an economic point of view .
if compensation for wrong s to the palestinians was to be the guiding principle , there were always better ways of going about it than to found a ric ke ty , poverty- ridden new country dependent on foreign aid .
most people have forgotten that the paris protocols of april 1994 established a customs union between israel and the occupied territories , with a joint economic council to adjudic ate trade disputes .
the free movement of goods , labor , and capital between the two parts could have given a tremendous economic boost to palestinian gdp .
it could also have been the basis of a con federal state , whose palestinian part would have benefited from the west bank settlers ’ productivity and taxes .
but this benign prospect was undermined by the violence needed to maintain the jewish state and enable the emergence of a palestinian one .
the official view remains that only an internationally guaranteed two-state settlement will bring about the security needed for the economic revival of the palestinian territories .
but it is just possible that unilateral israeli policy , implicitly backed by the us , will create interim conditions of peace that are sufficient for economic growth to cool palestinian nationalism .
the palestinian cause is not the overriding pre occupation of even the arab states , so netanyahu ’ s strategy of defense in depth stands a better chance of success than abbas ’ s pursuit of statehood through international recognition .
netanyahu ’ s project is not moral .
but that doesn ’ t mean that it won ’ t work , at least for a time .
a confederation for kosovo
time is running out in kosovo .
if a united nation s- backed settlement is not reached by early december , the province ’ s majority alban ian population is likely to declare independence unilaterally – a move that the united states has announced it may support .
that would be a disastrous step .
russia would be furious , because it fears that kosovo ’ s secession – whether or not it is internationally recognized – might fuel separatist movements in the former soviet empire .
serbia is even more strongly opposed .
d us an pr or o kov ic , serbia ’ s state secretary for kosovo , has said that his country might use force to maintain its sovereignty .
even if the government hes it ates , ul tran ati onal ist groups might push prime minister vo j isl av ko stun ica to send in troops : the current un presence in kosovo is very thin ( only 40 “ military observers ” and 2, 1 16 policemen ) but the st ation ing of 15,000 nato troops could make any armed clash very dangerous .
after eight years of international administration , kosovo ’ s alban ian majority has ta sted freedom and is eager for full independence .
but serbia claims that the province remains an essential part of its historical and cultural tradition .
moreover , independence would not be accepted by the serbian public , which has already watched in dis may as “ great serbia ” has been gradually whit tled away , most recently with the secession of mon ten e gr o .
serbia is prepared to concede only “ enhanced autonomy ” to kosovo , and some capacity to enter into international agreements .
yet , while the two parties now seem ir reconc il able , it is not too late for compromise .
but this is possible only by re susc itating – and up dating – an old institution of the international community : a confederation of states .
by means of a binding un security council resolution , kosovo could be granted full and exclusive authority over its citizens and territory , as well as limited capacity for action on the international scene .
it could be authorized to enter into trade agreements as well as agreements concerning individuals ( for example , admission and circulation of foreigners , or ex tradition ) , plus the right to seek admission to the un ( which does not require full sovereignty and independence ) .
kosovo would thus gain some essential tr appings of statehood .
as a result , kosovo and serbia would constitute two distinct international subjects , bound by a confederation h inging on a common decision-making body .
of course , this confederation would be asymmetrical , because the serbian government ’ s sovereignty over the rest of serbia would remain intact and unlimited , whereas the kosov ar government ’ s “ sovereignty ” over kosovo would be restrained .
to avoid one of the two parties getting the upper hand and imposing arbitrary decisions , the common decision-making body should consist of four serbian delegates , two kosov ar delegates , and three representatives of the eu , thus requiring both sides to gain the support of the european delegates .
in addition , the eu should create a small but effective military force ( say , 5,000 troops ) to back up the common body ’ s decisions .
as with any compromise , the cont ending parties would both gain and lose from this arrangement .
serbia would save face , and would continue to have a say on crucial matters concerning kosovo , including the treatment of the serbian minority .
kosovo would acquire limited independence , with its status rising from a province of a sovereign state to an international subject capable of entering into certain agreements with other states and even joining the un .
the eu would benefit as well , by contributing to the stabilization of a highly volatile area .
subsequently , the eu would monitor kosovo and prevent any dispute that might turn violent .
a final advantage of this solution is that it would be temporary .
historically , con feder ations sooner or later either become feder ations ( as occurred in the us , germany , and switzerland ) or , pushed by centrifu gal forces , split up ( as with the united arab republic , established in 1958 , which split three years later into egypt and syria ) .
the confederation i advocate would thus constitute an intermediate stage ( lasting five or ten years ) , at the end of which kosovo is likely to become fully independent .
delaying a final solution in this way would provide time to verify kosovo ’ s prospects of joining the eu and thus eventually sharing “ sovereign authority ” with other independent states , which could defl ate kosov ars ’ dangerously robust nationalistic demands .
a cool calculus of global warming
the british government recently issued the most comprehensive study to date of the economic costs and risks of global warming , and of measures that might reduce greenhouse gas emissions , in the hope of averting some of the di rest consequences .
written under the leadership of sir nicholas stern of the london school of economics , who succeeded me as chief economist of the world bank , the report makes clear that the question is no longer whether we can afford to do anything about global warming , but whether we can afford not to .
the report proposes an agenda whose cost would be equivalent to just 1 % of annual consumption , but would save the world risk equivalent costs that are five times greater .
the reported costs of global warming are higher than in earlier studies because it takes into account the mounting evidence that the process of global warming is highly complex and non- linear , with a non- negligible chance that it may proceed much faster than had previously been thought and that the extent of warming may be much greater than had previously been thought .
indeed , the study may actually significantly underestimate the costs : for instance , climate change may lead to more weather vari ability , a possible disappearance or major shift of the gulf stream – of particular concern to europe – and a flourishing of disease .
when i served in 1995 on the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the scientific group that periodically ass esses the science of global warming , there was overwhelming evidence that the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere had increased markedly since the beginning of the industrial revolution , that human activity had contributed significantly to those increases , and that they would have profound effects on climate and sea levels .
but few saw , for instance , the ar tic ice cap melting as rapidly as now seems to be the case .
still , some suggest that because we are not certain about how bad global warming will be , we should do little or nothing .
to me , uncertainty should make us act more resol utely today , not less .
as one scientist friend puts it : if you are driving on a mountain road , approaching a cliff , in a car whose bra kes may fail , and a fo g bank rol ls in , should you drive more or less cau tiously ?
global warming is one of those rare instances where the scientific community is more fearful of what may be happening than the population at large .
scientists have glim p sed what the future may port end .
as the stern report points out , as usual , the poor are the most vulnerable .
a third of bangladesh will be underwater by the end of this century .
the maldives and a host of pacific island states will disappear : our twenty-first-century atl anti s .
pollution is a global extern ality of enormous proportions .
the advanced countries might mean bangladesh and the disappearing island states no harm , but no war could be more devastating .
a global extern ality can best be dealt with by a globally agreed tax rate .
this does not mean an increase in overall taxation , but simply a substitution in each country of a pollution ( carbon ) tax for some current taxes .
it makes much more sense to tax things that are bad , like pollution , than things that are good , like savings and work .
although president george w. bush says he believes in markets , in this case he has called for voluntary action .
but it makes far more sense to use the force of markets – the power of incentives – than to rely on goodwill , especially when it comes to oil companies that regard their sole objective as maximizing profits , regardless of the cost to others .
ex xon has reportedly been funding so-called think tanks to undermine confidence in the science of global warming , just as the tobacco industry funded “ research ” to question the validity of statistical findings showing the link between smoking and cancer .
some companies even seem to celebrate the melting of the polar ice cap , because it will reduce the cost of extracting the oil that lies beneath the arctic ocean .
the good news is that there are many ways by which improved incentives could reduce emissions – partly by eliminating the myriad of subsidies for inefficient us ages .
the us subsidi zes cor n -based ethanol , and imposes tariffs on su g ar- based ethanol ; hidden in the tax code are billions of dollars of subsidies to the oil and gas industries .
most importantly , price signals that show the true social costs of energy derived from fossil fuels will encourage innovation and conservation .
small changes in practices , when replicated by hundreds of millions of people , can make an enormous difference .
for example , simply changing the color of ro of s in warm clim ates to reflect sunlight or planting trees around houses can lead to great savings on energy used for air conditioning .
we have but one planet , and should treas ure it .
global warming is a risk that we simply can not afford to ignore anymore .
a cool head for the ho tt est issues
london – reading barack obama ’ s dreams from my father , the us president ’ s beauti fully written reflec tions on his early life and identity , most people are struck by his cool and intellectual approach .
this is not to say that he is un emotional .
obama can rage and we ep .
but he rarely seems to act on the basis of raw sentiment or instinc tive prejudice .
pragmatic and highly intelligent , sooner or later every issue receives the full attention of his for ens ic curiosity .
recalling hillary clinton ’ s famous democratic primary television advertis ement , obama , it turns out , is exactly the sort of president that most of us would want to have in the post for that 3 a . m. phone call about an international crisis .
he would not be afraid to act , but he would be prepared to think first .
i do not think , therefore , that obama will be too v ex ed by some of the criticism he faces at the end of his first year in office , though he will undoubtedly gr im ace at the defeat of the democratic candidate in the special election in massachusetts to fill ted kennedy ’ s old seat .
obama was praised extravag antly a year ago ; 12 months on , the criticism is over the top , too .
obama inherited a terrible legacy – recession , financial meltdown , iraq , afghanistan . he has not solved all of these problems .
but it is difficult to see any really bad mistakes , except perhaps allowing himself to be pushed around by israeli prime minister netanyahu and giving china the impression that he was prepared for a bilateral relationship entirely on china ’ s terms .
that seems to be changing now .
the left in america critici zes obama for not turning the economy around already .
the right angr ily den oun ces him as a cryp to- communist because he wants every american to have health care .
with a dis passionate eye on the long game , what will the president himself be thinking ?
one issue that obama is certain to have in his sights is a problem that shad owed the world for years .
when i was growing up in the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s , world peace was based on the nuclear standoff between the us and the soviet union .
the main strategic assessment on both sides of the berlin wall was that if either side made a wrong move , all of us might end up consumed in the flames of a nuclear holocaust .
this was called , in the geostrategic jargon of the day , “ mutually assured destruction , ” or mad . the ac ron y m was entirely appropriate .
we have forgotten those days .
yet there are still 2 3,000 nuclear warheads on our planet , with the explosive power of 15 0,000 hiroshima bombs .
terrorist groups would undoubtedly like to get their hands on one .
in all , there are eight nuclear- weapon states – the us , russia , britain , france , china , israel , india , and pakistan .
north korea may also have a few bombs . iran is believed by many to be trying to develop one .
other states , which have their own civil nuclear capacity , have the potential to develop a weapon . the number of countries in this category is bound to increase as the number of nuclear power reactors dou bles over the next 20 years .
the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) has contained the number of nuclear states .
a conference is to be held in may to renew and review it .
obama clearly recognizes that the npt needs to be strengthened in order to prevent countries from turning their civil nuclear-power capacity into weapons .
but obama also knows that if the existing nuclear states want others to accept tougher restrictions , they will have to cut back their nuclear arsenals .
this is principally an issue for the us and russia , which possess 95 % of the world ’ s nuclear weapons .
in addition , it would help if the us could take a strong lead by rati fying the comprehensive nuclear- t est- ban treaty .
the nuclear issue is one of the biggest items on the obama agenda . how it is handled will help to define his presidency .
even before the talking gets serious in may , there will be the question of iran to sort out .
iran says that it seeks no more than its own ability to produce nuclear power .
dis belief grows with every revelation of secret iranian facilities and plans , and with every refusal by iran to negotiate safeguards that would allow for civil use while preventing weapon ization .
the us , the european union , and russia have tried to engage iran on this issue , so far without success .
china seems likely to block effective sanctions on iran because of its close energy relationship with the country .
how china eventually hand les this will profoundly affect its standing in the us and europe .
these are going to be some of the major questions for obama over the next year and more .
if he gets them right , he can forget about his short-term critics .
fortunately , he is smart enough to know this .
munich – for a while , it looked as if the european central bank ’ s €1 trillion credit program to pump liquidity into europe ’ s banking system had cal med global financial markets .
but now interest rates for italian and spanish government bonds are on the rise again , closing in on about 6 % .
of course , this may not be the breaking point beyond which the debt burden becomes unsustainable .
after all , interest rates in southern europe were well above 10 % in the decade before the euro was introduced .
even germany at that time had to pay bondholders more than 6 % .
nevertheless , the markets are clearly signaling growing doubt about whether spain and italy will be willing to bear their debt burden .
the main problem is spain , where private and public-sector foreign debt is larger than that of greece , portugal , ireland , and italy combined , and , as in greece , is in the neighborhood of 100 % of gdp ( 93 % to be precise ) .
a quarter of the labor force and half of spain ’ s youth are unemployed , reflecting the country ’ s loss of competitiveness in the wake of the real-estate bubble inflated by cheap euro credit in the pre-crisis period .
the current-account deficit remains at 3.5 % of gdp , despite the recessi on- induced decline in imports , while economic contraction will cause spain to miss its budge t- deficit target again .
moreover , spain ’ s debt with the ecb ’ s target settlement system rose by € 55 billion ( $ 72 billion ) between february and march , because capital outflows of that amount had to be compensated .
since july 2011 , spain ’ s target debt has grown by € 19 9 billion .
capital is in full flight , more than offsetting the inflows from 2008- 2010 .
the cumulative total since the beginning of the first crisis year ( 2008 ) means that spain has financed its entire current-account deficit via the printing press .
the picture is little better in italy , where the current-account balance has swung from a surplus of around 2 % of gdp to a 3 % -of-gdp deficit over the last ten years .
the country ’ s target debt grew by € 76 billion from february to march , with the total since july 2011 reaching € 2 76 billion .
italy , too , is being dra ined of capital ; in fact , the flight of investors accelerated after the ecb ’ s liquidity injection .
it is now clear that the ecb itself has caused a large part of the capital flight from countries like spain and italy , because the cheap credit that it offered drove away private capital .
the purpose of the ecb ’ s measures was to re-establish confidence and bring about a recovery of the inter- bank market .
in this , too , it has not really been successful , despite the huge amount of money that it put on the table .
indeed , now the french are looking w ob bly .
as capital fled the country between july 2011 and january 2012 , france ’ s target debt increased by € 95 billion .
france , too , has become uncompetitive , owing to the cheap credit brought by the euro in its initial years .
according to a recent study by goldman sachs , the country ’ s price level must drop by an estimated 20 % vis-à-vis the euro average – that is , depreciate in real terms – if the economy is to regain competitiveness within the eurozone .
italy will have to depreciate by 10-15 % , and spain by roughly 20 % .
while greece and portugal face the need for deflation totaling 30 % and 35 % , respectively , the figures for spain and italy are high enough to justify fears about the future development of the eurozone .
these imbalances can be red ressed only with great effort , if at all , and only if one accepts a decade of stagnation .
for greece and portugal , staying in the eurozone will be a tight squeeze .
there are many who would solve the problem by rou ting more and more cheap credit through public channels – bailout funds , eurobonds , or the ecb – from the eurozone ’ s healthy core to the troubled south .
but this would un fairly force savers and taxpayers in the core countries to provide capital to the south on terms to which they would never voluntarily agree .
no one knows what these claims will be worth in the event of a eurozone breakup .
above all , however , the permanent public provision of cheap credit would ultimately lead to a lingering in firm ity , if not to europe ’ s economic collapse , because the eurozone would become a central management system with state control over investment .
such systems can not work , because they eliminate the capital market as the economic system ’ s main steering mechanism .
one can not help but wonder how though t lessly europe ’ s politicians have started down this slip per y slope .
a crisis in two narratives
chicago – with the world ’ s industrial democracies in crisis , two competing narratives of its sources – and appropriate remedies – are emerging .
the first , better- known diagnosis is that demand has collapsed because of high debt accumulated prior to the crisis .
households ( and countries ) that were most prone to spend can not borrow any more .
to revive growth , others must be encouraged to spend – governments that can still borrow should run larger deficits , and rock-bottom interest rates should discourage thr if ty households from saving .
under these circumstances , budgetary reck lessness is a virtue , at least in the short term .
in the medium term , once growth re viv es , debt can be paid down and the financial sector cur bed so that it does not inflict another crisis on the world .
this narrative – the standard keynesian line , modified for a debt crisis – is the one to which most government officials , central bankers , and wall street economists have subscr ibed , and needs little elabor ation .
its virtue is that it gives policymakers something clear to do , with promised returns that match the political cycle .
unfortunately , despite past stimulus , growth is still tepid , and it is increasingly difficult to find sensible new spending that can pay off in the short run .
attention is therefore shifting to the second narrative , which suggests that the advanced economies ’ fundamental capacity to grow by making useful things has been declining for decades , a trend that was masked by debt- fueled spending .
more such spending will not return these countries to a sustainable growth path .
instead , they must improve the environment for growth .
the second narrative starts with the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s , an era of rapid growth in the west and japan .
several factors , including post-war reconstruction , the resurgence of trade after the protectionist 1930 ’ s , the introduction of new technologies in power , transport , and communications across countries , and expansion of educational attainment , underpinned the long boom .
but , as ty ler cow en has argued in his book the great stagnation , once these “ low- hanging fruit ” were pl uc ked , it became much harder to propel growth from the 1970 ’ s onward .
meanwhile , as wolfgang stre ec k writes persu asi vely in new left review , democratic governments , facing what seemed , in the 1960 ’ s , like an endless v ista of innovation and growth , were quick to expand the welfare state .
but , when growth f altered , this meant that government spending expanded , even as its resources shrank .
for a while , central banks accommod ated that spending .
the resulting high inflation created widespread discontent , especially because little growth resulted .
faith in keynesian stimulus diminished , though high inflation did reduce public-debt levels .
central banks then began to focus on low and stable inflation as their primary objective , and became more independent from their political masters .
but deficit spending by governments continued ap ace , and public debt as a share of gdp in industrial countries climbed steadily from the late 1970 ’ s , this time without inflation to reduce its real value .
recognizing the need to find new sources of growth , towards the end of jimmy carter ’ s presidency , and then under ronald reagan , the united states dereg ulated industry and the financial sector , as did margaret thatcher in the united kingdom .
productivity growth increased substantially in these countries over time , which persuaded continental europe to adopt reforms of its own , often pushed by the european commission .
public debt continued to grow .
and the incomes of the moderately educated middle class failed to benefit from dereg ul ation- led growth ( though it improved their lot as consumers ) .
the most recent phase of the advanced economies ’ fren z ied search for growth took different forms .
in some countries , most notably the us , a private-sector credit boom created jobs in low-skilled industries like construction , and precip itated a consumption boom as people borrowed against overvalued houses .
in other countries , like greece , as well as under regional administrations in italy and spain , a government- led hiring spree created secure jobs for the moderately educated .
in this “ fundamental ” narrative , the advanced countries ’ pre-crisis gdp was unsustainable , bolstered by borrowing and unproductive ma ke- work jobs .
more borrowed growth – the keynesian formula – may create the illusion of normalcy , and may be useful in the immediate aftermath of a deep crisis to calm a panic , but it is no solution to a fundamental growth problem .
if this diagnosis is correct , advanced countries need to focus on reviving innovation and productivity growth over the medium term , and on real igning welfare promises with revenue capacity , while allevi ating the pain of the truly destitu te in the short run .
for example , southern europe ’ s growth potential may consist in dereg ulating service sectors and reducing employment protection to spur creation of more private-sector jobs for retren ched government workers and unemployed youth .
in the us , the imperative is to improve the match between potential jobs and worker skills .
people understand better than the government what they need and are acting accordingly .
many women , for example , are leaving low- paying jobs to acquire skills that will open doors to higher- paying positions .
too little government attention has been focused on such issues , partly because pay offs occur beyond electoral horizons , and partly because the effectiveness of government programs has been mixed .
tax reform , however , can provide spur retraining and maintain incentives to work , even while fixing g aping fiscal holes .
three powerful forces , one hopes , will help to create more productive jobs in the future : better use of information and communications technology ( and new ways to make it pay ) , lower- cost energy as alternative sources are harn essed , and sharply rising demand in emerging markets for higher- value-added goods .
the advanced countries have a choice .
they can act as if all is well , except that their consumers are in a fun k , and that “ animal spirits ” must be revived through stimulus .
or they can treat the crisis as a wake-up call to fix what debt has pap ered over in the last few decades .
for better or worse , the narrative that persu ades these countries ’ governments and publics will determine their future – and that of the global economy .
financing the next development agenda
washington , dc – as the 2015 target date for the millennium development goals approaches , the united nations is intensifying its efforts to foster debate about what comes next for promotion of development worldwide .
the outcome of these discussions will shape policies and investment aimed at spurring gdp growth , strengthening human capital , and promoting more inclusive prosperity .
with the global population expected to reach nine billion people by 2050 – a significant proportion of whom will reside in developing or underdeveloped countries – the international community must improve access to education , health care , and employment opportunities worldwide .
meanwhile , the prospect of a rise in global temperature of more than 2°c ( 3. 6 ° f ) over pre-industrial levels by the end of this century ( which would trigger global warming ’ s most damaging effects ) calls for higher investment in sustainable urbanization , climate- smart agriculture , and social safety nets .
both factors challenge us to define , in the longer term , more sustainable patterns of production and consumption .
governments , civil society , and the private sector must rise to the challenge , cooperating to find and implement creative solutions .
but , first , they must anticipate the associated financing requirements , which will soon surpass the current capacities of governments and international donors , and take action now to activ ate new , reliable sources of financing .
to start , governments should design targeted , evidence-based policies and support the development of sound institutions .
this would make government services more effective , while helping to catalyze additional development aid from traditional donors and mobilize private-sector resources .
broadening the tax base , improving tax administration , and closing gaps in the value-added tax could make a significant difference in lower-income countries , where tax revenues account for only about 10- 14 % of gdp , compared to 20-30 % of gdp in high-income countries .
more equitable taxation would have a positive impact on governance , another important tool for mobilizing domestic resources .
with improved corporate and public governance and clear transfer - pricing policies , resource-rich countries could shore up their capacity to negotiate fair contracts with extr active industries , balance revenues and expenditures over time , and manage their natural endowments more transparently .
progress in these areas would help governments to channel their spending more effectively toward those who would benefit the most .
for example , only 8 % of the $ 40 9 billion spent on fossil-fuel subsidies in 2010 reached the poorest 20 % of the population .
a targeted support program could increase substantially the efficiency of spending , freeing up resources for education , health , and poverty eradication .
furthermore , promoting financial deepening and inclusiveness could accelerate private-sector growth , creating more opportunities .
indeed , broader access to financial services would help the estimated 400 million micro , small , and medium-size enterprises in developing countries to prosper , while enabling the 2.5 billion people worldwide who currently lack access to such services to build their assets .
a deeper and more efficient financial sector would also reduce transaction costs and facilitate risk management .
local- currency bond markets could help to develop domestic investor bases and mobilize domestic savings to support long-term investments .
at the same time , the international community should work to improve the availability and effectiveness of official development assistance .
the oda target of 0.7 % of gdp – agreed in 2002 at the international conference on financing for development in mon ter rey , mexico – should motivate countries to increase their contributions .
they can also take steps to make oda more predictable from year to year .
donors should structure aid to ensure that it supports sound national development policies and programs , rather than their own narrow interests .
this is particularly relevant as emerging development partners , especially the brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) , offer new kinds of aid packages that incorporate investment and non-financial assistance .
private charities , which have been instrumental in promoting innovation in fields such as health care , the environment , and education , could provide valuable insight into channeling aid more effectively .
more generally , improving coordination among donors would help to maximize the impact of aid on the ground .
while oda remains an important source of financing for fragile and ver y- low-income countries , it represents only 7 % of net financial flows to developing countries , where foreign direct investment , remittances , long-term debt , and portfolio investment have a larger impact .
donors should leverage aid to “ grow the pie ” and to diversify financing sources for the world ’ s poorest countries by providing risk guarantees , innovative investment vehicles , debt syn dic ation , and co- financing arrangements .
attracting even a fraction of the assets held by institutional investors , sovereign- wealth funds , and public pension funds could boost development finance substantially .
diaspora populations are another major potential source of development financing .
reducing transfer costs , which average an estimated 9 % of the value of transactions , would put more money into the hands of those who need it most .
tail oring financial products for diaspora communities could attract resources for investment , while reinforcing migrants ’ ties – economic and otherwise – to their home countries .
finally , the international community bears a special responsibility for delivering global public goods .
the responsibility to preserve the environment , stem the spread of communicable diseases , strengthen the international financial architecture , enhance developing-country participation in the global trading system , and facilitate the exchange of knowledge lies at the inter section of national development priorities and global interests .
du ty- free , quo ta - free access to oecd markets , complem ented by simpler , more transparent rules of origin , would raise gdp by 1 % in the least- developed countries , lifting millions out of poverty .
investment in statistical capacity would help governments and businesses worldwide to make better policy decisions , based on a more accurate accounting of the associated costs and benefits .
the challenge of the post-2015 development agenda lies in finding creative solutions to support prosperity , equality , and sustainability .
together , governments , civil society , international organizations , and the private sector can improve the availability and quality of finance for development , and shape a better future for all .
prague – as i listened to what some europeans were saying as my country prepared to take over the presidency of the european union , i heard dim echoes of ne ville cham ber l ain ’ s infamous description of czechoslovakia as “ a far away country of which we know little . ”
i suppose that donald rumsfeld ’ s misguided bid a few years ago to incite a divide between “ new and old ” europe contributed to the re- emergence of that disd ain ful attitude .
the reality is that there is no such thing as “ old and new ” europe , and there never was .
the break with communism and reunification of europe is now almost two decades old .
we cz ech s are 100 % european , and were even when the iron curtain cut us off from democratic europe .
indeed , our pro- eu sentiments may be all the stronger because our membership in the union , like our freedom , is so comparatively new .
so no one in europe needs to fear that the czech republic has some nostalgic or idi osyn cratic agenda that it wants to impose on the union .
on the contrary , events have imposed an agenda on europe that we can not escape and for which solidarity – true union – will be needed .
the primary , and most pressing , of the problems we face is the financial and economic crisis that is envelop ing the eu .
unfortunately , conditions across the union will likely worsen before they begin to improve .
the type of social unrest recently witnessed in greece may spread , because the downturn is likely to take a disproportionate toll on europe ’ s young people , who are seeking jobs at a time when hard- pressed european businesses will be able to offer them very few .
it will fall to the union , once again , to help transform despair into hope .
we cz ech s know something about this , as the wrenching economic transition that we under went in the 1990 ’ s taught us much about how the right policies can break the grip of hopelessness .
to contain today ’ s financial and economic crisis , europe will also need to continue the cooperation that it has shown up to this point .
the very existence of our union , and particularly of the euro , has already helped to prevent the competitive devaluations and beggar-thy-neighbor policies that ravaged europe during the 1930 ’ s – the last time the continent faced so brutal an economic downturn .
but we can not be complacent that the forces of national ego ism will remain in check .
for now , eu governments ’ coordinated fiscal stimulus has deprived populists of their usual charge that the eu is indifferent to the fate of individuals .
even more policy coordination will be needed both to confront the crisis and to re-establish eu norms once the storm clouds begin to dissip ate .
although it is right that the stability and growth pact has become more flexible in these extraordinary times , its rules did secure a successful first decade for the euro .
these rules must eventually be restored intact if europe is to return to the path of sustainable growth , and a consensus will need to be forged now to make that happen .
the second key challenge that we will face during our european presidency is that of russia .
a new partnership and cooperation agreement ( p ca ) between the eu and the russian federation must be negotiated .
those negotiations should have begun seriously last year , but the war in georgia intervened to put them on hold .
now those talks have resumed , but the background to the negotiations has changed dramatically .
russia ’ s economy is now in far worse shape than that of eu members .
the collapse of world oil and gas prices has wounded russia ’ s budget , and lack of investment in the country ’ s energy sector over the years is now causing the declining production that economists have long predicted .
until now , russia has ca red less about a new p ca than the eu , because two-thirds of russia ’ s exports to the union comprise natural resources , which bring in cash even without the strong rules that a p ca provides .
given the stark changes in economic conditions , however , it is now in russia ’ s national interest to reassure international markets that it is a reliable place to do business , for which a new p ca would serve as an ideal signal .
moreover , without a new p ca , individual european countries may feel it necessary to seek even more bilateral agreements with russia .
but the bilateral deals that have emerged from this race sometimes come at the expense of other union members , and may un balance relations within the union as a whole . only a rules-based eu framework can provide a firm foundation for both bilateral and uni on- wide relations with russia .
europe ’ s main strength in foreign policy is not its commitment to a rules-based multilateralism , important as that undoubtedly is , but its unity .
when the georgia crisis erupted , europe united around a single position on russia ’ s withdrawal .
it is the czech republic ’ s task , and that of the swedish eu presidency that will follow our own , to maintain this unity as the p ca negotiations move forward .
during the 1990 ’ s , the us and europe er red in treating russia with benign neglect . it would be a mistake for russia to respond in kind today by seeking to prolong the p ca negotiations in the hope that a possibly more amenable eu president may one day offer sof ter terms .
we , like all eu presid encies , will be representing the wider union interests when we negotiate .
in praise of fragmentation
london – emerging markets are back in the spotlight .
investors and banks are suddenly unwilling to finance current-account deficits with short-term debt .
south africa , for example , has had to increase interest rates , despite slow economic growth , to attract the funding it needs .
turkey ’ s rate increase has been dramatic .
for these and other emerging countries , 2014 may prove to be a turbulent year .
if volatility becomes extreme , some countries may consider imposing constraints on capital outflows , which the international monetary fund now agrees might be useful in specific circumstances .
but the fundamental question is how to manage the impact of short-term capital inflows .
until recently , economic orthodoxy considered that question inval id .
financial liberalization was lauded because it enabled capital to flow to where it would be used most produc tively , increasing national and global growth .
but empirical support for the benefits of capital-account liberalization is weak .
the most successful development stories in economic history – japan and south korea – featured significant domestic financial repression and capital controls , which accompanied several decades of rapid growth .
likewise , most cross- country studies have found no evidence that capital-account liberalization is good for growth .
as the economist j ag dish b hag w ati pointed out 16 years ago in his article “ the capital myth , ” there are fundamental differences between trade in wid gets and trade in dollars .
the case for liberalizing trade in goods and services is strong ; the case for complete capital-account liberalization is not .
one reason is that many modern financial flows do not play the useful role in capital allocation that economic theory assumes .
before world war i , capital flowed in one direction : from rich countries with excess savings , such as the united kingdom , to countries like australia or argentina , whose investment needs exceeded domestic savings .
but in today ’ s world , net capital flows are often from relatively poor countries to rich countries .
huge two- way gross capital flows are driven by transi ent changes in perception , with car r y- trade opportunities ( borrowing in low- yielding currencies to finance lending in high- yielding ones ) replacing long-term capital investment .
moreover , capital inflows frequently finance consumption or unsustainable real-estate booms .
and yet , despite the growing evidence to the contrary , the assumption that all capital flows are beneficial has proved remarkably resilient .
that reflects the power not only of vested interests but also of established ideas .
empirical fal si fication of a prevailing orthodoxy is disturbing .
it is time to stop looking for these non-existent benefits , and to distinguish among different categories of capital flows .
some are valuable , but some are potentially harmful .
foreign direct investment ( fdi ) , for example , can aid growth , because it is long term , involves investment in the real economy , and is often accompanied by technology or skill transfers .
equity portfolio investment may involve price volatility as ownership positions change , but at least it implies a permanent commitment of capital to a business enterprise .
long-term debt finance of real capital investment can play a useful role as well .
by contrast , short-term capital flows , particularly if provided by banks that are themselves relying on short-term funding , can create instability risks , while bringing few benefits .
what is less clear is the best policy response .
capital controls are invariably por ous , and we can not gain the benefits of free trade and fdi without creating some opportunities for short-term investor positioning .
china has not liberalized its capital account , but short-term inflows are now driving stronger upward pressure on the renminbi ( and larger offsetting reserve accumulation by the people ’ s bank of china ) than can be explained by the current-account surplus and fdi flows .
a case can thus be made for capital-account liberalization that is based on the impossibility of effective control , not on any supposed benefits .
but while perfect policy is un attainable , partly effective controls can still play a useful role if targeted at the inter face between short-term inflows and domestic credit cycles .
after all , capital inflows cause the greatest harm when they drive rapid increases in credit- financed consumption or real-estate speculation .
the required policy response should integrate domestic financial regulation with capital-account management .
tax instruments and reserve requirements that put sand in the whe els of short-term capital inflows should be combined with strong countercyclical measures , such as additional capital requirements , to slow domestic credit creation .
the effectiveness of such measures can be undermined if global banks operate in emerging countries in branch form , providing domestic credit financed by global funding pools .
but this danger can be countered by requiring banks to operate as legally incorporated subsidiaries , with locally regulated capital and liquidity reserves , and strong regulatory limits on the maturity of their funding .
such requirements would not prevent useful capital flows : global banking groups could invest equity in emerging markets and fund their subsidiaries ’ balance sheets with long-term debt .
in banking , as in other sectors , investment that combines long-term commitment with skill transfer can be highly beneficial , which implies that foreign banks should be free to compete on the same basis as domestic banks .
neither mandatory subsidi ar ization nor tax - or regul ation- based capital controls will solve all of the problems .
but , taken together , they can stem the volatility implied by short-term flows and help to smooth out domestic credit cycles .
much of the financial industry re sists such measures , as do the many economists who remain we dded to the old orthodoxy .
renewed capital controls , they claim , would “ frag ment ” the global financial market , undermining its ability to allocate capital efficiently .
in the past , policymakers have been at p ains to stress that no such fragmentation will be allowed .
but we need to be blunt : free flows of short-term debt can result in capital misallocation and harmful instability .
when it comes to global capital markets , fragmentation can be a good thing .
the high-tech , high- touch economy
london – a recent report revealed that the five richest families in britain are worth more than the country ’ s poorest 20 % combined .
some of the wealth comes from new business ventures ; but two of the five are a duke and an ear l whose ancestors owned the fields across which london expanded in the nineteenth century .
urban land wealth is not just a london phenomenon .
in many countries , the majority of that wealth – and the lion ’ s share of the increase – is accounted for by housing and commercial real estate , and most of that wealth re sides not in the value of the buildings , but in the value of the urban land on which it sits .
that might seem odd .
though we live in the hi - tech virtual world of the internet , the value of the most physical thing – land – is rising relentlessly .
but there is no contradiction : the price of land is rising because of rapid technological progress .
in an age of information and communication technology ( ict ) , it is inevitable that we value what an ic t- intensive economy can not create .
ict has already delivered remarkable new products and services ; but , as mit ’ s er ik br yn jol fs son and andrew mc af ee argue persu asi vely in their recent book the second machine age , the really dramatic changes are yet to come , with robots and software bound to autom ate out of existence a huge number of jobs .
one consequence is the striking phenomenon of huge wealth creation with very little labor input .
facebook has an equity valuation of $ 170 billion but employs only around 6,000 people .
the investment that went into building the software that runs it entailed no more than around 5,000 software engineer man- years .
this remarkable technology has helped to deliver increasing average incomes and will continue to do so .
but the distribution of that b oun ty has been very unequal .
the lion ’ s share of the growth has gone to the top half , the top 10 % , or even the top 1 % of the population .
as the better off become richer , however , much of their rising income will not be spent on ic t- intensive goods and services .
there is a limit to how many ip ads and smart phones one can need , and their price continues to plummet .
instead , an increasing share of consumer expenditure is devoted to buying goods and services that are rich in fashion , design , and subjective brand values , and to competing for ownership of loc ation- specific real estate .
but if the land on which the desired houses and apar tments sit is in limited supply , the inevitable consequence is rising prices .
urban land is therefore rising in value – in london , new york , shanghai , and many other cities – partly because of consumer demand .
but its rising value also makes it an attractive asset class for investors , because further price increases are expected .
moreover , returns on real estate have been sw oll en by the dramatic fall in interest rates over the last 25 years , a decline that was far advanced even before the 2008 financial crisis .
the cause of those low interest rates is debated ; but one probable factor is the reduced cost of business investment in hardware and softw are -based “ machines . ”
if you can build a $ 170 billion company with just 5,000 software engineer man- years , you don ’ t need to borrow much money .
the fact that technology is so powerful not only makes physical land more valuable ; it also means that future employment growth will be concentrated among the jobs that can not be automated , particularly in services , which have to be delivered physically .
the us bureau of labor statistics estimates that among the most rapidly growing occupational categories over the next ten years will be “ healthcare support occupations ” ( nur sing aides , ord er lies , and att endants ) and “ food preparation and serving workers ” – that is , overwhelmingly low-wage jobs .
in short , ict creates an economy that is both “ hi - tech ” and “ hi - touch ” – a world of robots and apps , but also of fashion , design , land , and face-to- face services .
this economy is the result of our remarkable ability to solve the problem of production and autom ate away the need for contin ual labor .
but it is an economy that is likely to suffer two adverse side effects .
first , it may be inherently unstable , because the more that wealth re sides in real estate , the more the financial system will provide leverage to support real-estate speculation , which has been at the heart of all of the world ’ s worst financial crises .
major changes in financial and monetary policy , going far beyond those introduced in response to the 2008 crisis , are required to contain this danger .
second , unless we deliberately design policies that encourage and sustain inclusive growth , a highly unequal society is virtually inevitable , with rising land values and wealth magn ifying the effects of the unequal income distribution that ict produces directly .
the trade delusion
london – since 2008 , global trade has grown slightly more slowly than global gdp .
the doha round of world trade organization negotiations ended in failure .
transatlantic and tran spac ific trade negotiations are progres sing slowly , held back by the resistance of special interests .
but , though many experts fear that protectionism is undermining globalization , threatening to impede global economic growth , slower growth in global trade may be inevitable , and trade liberalization is decreas ingly important .
to be sure , for 65 years , rapid trade growth has played a vital role in economic development , with average advanced-economy industrial tariffs plummeting from more than 30 % to below 5 % .
the creation of europe ’ s single market facilitated increased intra- european trade .
japan , south korea , and taiwan achieved rapid economic catch-up on the basis of export-led growth .
china has followed the same path over the last 30 years .
trade grew about twice as fast as global output from 1990 to 2008 .
but there is no reason why trade should grow faster than gdp forever .
indeed , even if there were no trade barriers at all , trade might grow significantly more slowly than gdp in some periods .
several factors make it possible that we are entering such a period .
for starters , there is the changing pattern of consumption in the advanced economies .
richer people spend an increasing share of their income on services that are either impossible to trade ( for example , restaurant meals ) or difficult to trade ( such as health services ) .
non-tradable sectors tend to account for a growing share of employment and economic activity .
for several decades , that tendency has been offset by ever more intensive trading of tradable goods , often passing through many countries in complex supply chains .
in the future , however , the shift to non-tradable consumption may dominate .
indeed , trade intensity may decline even for manufactured goods .
trade is partly driven by differences in labor costs .
china ’ s dramatic manufacturing growth reflected low wages up to now .
but as real wages in china and other emerging economies grow , incentives for trade will decline .
the more that global incomes converge , the less trade there may be .
in addition , as the economists er ik br yn jol fs son and andrew mc af ee of mit have argued in their book the second machine age , rapid advances in information technology may enable increasingly extensive automation .
some manufacturing activities , though few jobs , may well return to developed countries , as the advantages of proximity to customers and lower transport costs outweigh decreas ingly important differences in labor costs .
global trade as a share of gdp may therefore decline , but without adverse consequences for global economic growth .
rising productivity does not require relentlessly increasing trade intensity .
earth , after all , does not trade with other plan ets , yet its economy still grows .
optimal trade intensity depends on many factors – such as relative labor costs , transport costs , productivity levels , and economy- of- scale effects .
even if that is true , international trade will still play a vital role , and preventing any reversal of past trade liberalization is essential .
but further trade liberalization is bound to be of declining importance to economic growth .
with industrial tariffs already dramatically reduced most potential benefits of trade liberalization have already been gras ped .
estimates of the benefits of further trade liberalization are often surprisingly low – no more than a few percentage points of global gdp .
that is small compared to the cost of the 2008 financial crisis , which has left output in several advanced economies 10-15 % below pre-crisis trend levels .
it is small , too , compared to the difference in economic performance between successful catch-up countries – such as china – and other countries that have enjoyed the same access to global markets but have performed less well for other reasons .
the main reason for slow progress in trade negotiations is not increasing protectionism ; it is the fact that further liberalization entails complex trade-offs no longer offset by very large potential benefits .
the doha round ’ s failure has been dec ried as a setback for developing countries . and some liberalization – say , of advanced economies ’ cotton imports – would undoubtedly benefit some low-income economies .
but full trade liberalization would have a complex impact on the least developed economies , some of which would benefit only if compensated for the loss of the preferential access to advanced-economy markets that they currently enjoy .
this implies that further progress in trade liberalization will be slow .
but slow progress is a far less important challenge to growth prospects than the debt overhang in developed economies , or infrastructure and educational deficiencies in many developing economies .
that reality often goes un acknowledged .
the importance of past trade liberalization has left the global policy establishment with a bias toward assuming that further liberalization would bring similar benefits .
but while the potential global benefits of trade liberalization have declined , reduced trade intensity might still impede economic development in some countries .
only a handful of economies over the last 60 years have fully caught up to advanced-economy living standards , and all relied on export-led growth to drive productivity and job creation in manufacturing .
relying solely on that model will be more difficult in the future .
china is so big that it must develop domestic drivers of growth at an earlier stage of development than did japan , taiwan , or south korea ; as a result , its exports will inevitably decline ( relative to gdp ) .
meanwhile , for some low-income countries , increased manufacturing and service- sector automation of the sort described by br yn jol fs son and mc af ee , whether within advanced economies or within china ’ s established industrial clusters , will make the path to middle- and high-income status more difficult to achieve .
that poses important challenges for development policy , which further trade liberalization can alleviate only marginally .
rethinking the monetization taboo
london – now that the pace of the us federal reserve ’ s “ tapering ” of its asset- purchase program has been debated to death , attention will increasingly turn to prospects for interest-rate increases .
but another question looms : how will central banks achieve a final “ exit ” from unconventional monetary policy and return balance sheets sw oll en by unconventional monetary policy to “ normal ” levels ?
to many , a larger issue needs to be addressed .
the fed ’ s tapering merely slows the growth of its balance sheet .
the authorities would still have to sell $ 3 trillion of bonds to return to the pre-crisis status quo .
the rarely admitted truth , however , is that there is no need for central banks ’ balance sheets to shrink .
they could stay permanently larger ; and , for some countries , permanently bigger central-bank balance sheets will help reduce public-debt burdens .
as a recent imf paper by carmen reinhart and kenneth rogoff illustrates , advanced economies face debt burdens that can not be reduced simply through a mix of austerity , for bear ance , and growth .
but if a central bank owns the debt of its own government , no net public liability exists .
if central bank holdings of government debt were converted into non- interest- bearing perpetual obligations , nothing substantive would change , but it would become obvious that some previously issued public debt did not need to be repaid .
this amounts to “ helicopter money ” after the fact .
in 2003 , then- fed chairman ben bernanke argued that japan , facing deflation , should increase public expenditure or cut taxes , funding the operation by printing money rather than issuing bonds .
this , he argued , was bound to increase national income , because the direct stimul ative effect would not be offset by concern about future debt burdens .
his advice was not followed ; large japanese deficits were in fact bond- financed .
but the debts held by the bank of japan ( boj ) could still be written off .
in japan ’ s case , this would reduce government debt by an amount equal to more than 40 % of gdp today , and around 60 % if implemented after the bond purchases planned for 2014 .
objections focus on two risks : central-bank losses and excessive inflation .
but both of these outcomes can be avoided .
central banks have bought government bonds with money on which they currently pay zero or very low interest rates .
so , as interest rates rise , central banks might face costs exceeding their income .
but central banks can choose to pay zero interest on a portion of the reserves that commercial banks hold with them , even when they increase the policy interest rate .
and they can require commercial banks to hold zero- interest reserves at the central bank equal to a defined proportion of their loans , thus preventing inflationary growth of private credit and money .
permanent monetization of government debts is undoubtedly technically possible .
whether it is desirable depends on the outlook for inflation .
where inflation is returning to target levels , debt monetization could be unnecessarily and dangerously stimul ative .
central-bank bond sales , while certainly not inevitable , may be appropriate .
but if deflation is the danger , permanent monetization may be the best policy .
i predict that japan will , in effect , permanently moneti ze some government debt .
after two decades of low growth and deflation , japanese gross public debt is now above 2 40 % of gdp ( and above 140 % of gdp on a net basis ) ; and , with the fiscal deficit at 9.5 % of gdp , the debt burden continues to increase .
according to the imf , to reduce its net public debt to 80 % of gdp by 2030 , japan would have to turn today ’ s 8. 6 % primary budget deficit ( the balance excluding interest payments ) into a 6.7 % primary surplus by 2020 and maintain such surpluses continuously until 2030 .
that will not happen , and any attempt to reach that target would drive japan into a severe depression .
but the government does not need to repay the ¥ 140 trillion ( $ 1.4 trillion ) of its debt that the boj already owns .
the boj will continue to increase its balance sheet until it achieves its 2 % inflation target .
thereafter , its balance sheet may stabilize in absolute yen terms and fall slowly as a percentage of gdp , but its absolute size will probably never decrease – a likelihood that should cause no concern .
it is precisely what happened to the fed ’ s balance sheet after its wartime and postwar buying of us government bonds came to an end in 1951 .
even as permanent monetization occurs , however , the truth may be ob fus c ated .
if government bond re payments to the boj continued , but were always offset by new boj bond purchases , and if the boj kept the interest rate on reserves at zero , the net effect would be the same as a debt write- off , but the fiction of “ normal ” central-bank operations could be maintained .
central banks can moneti ze debt while pretending not to .
the historical experience of we im ar germany , or that of zimbabwe today , illustrates the danger .
as a result , even when permanent monetization occurs – as it almost certainly will in japan and possibly elsewhere – it may remain forever the policy that dare not speak its name .
such retic ence may serve a useful purpose .
but it must not blind central banks and governments to the full range of policy tools available to address today ’ s severe debt over hangs .
the perils of financial freedom
london – back in 2007 , china ’ s then- prime minister , wen jiabao , famously described his country ’ s economy as “ unstable , unbalanced , un coordinated , and unsustainable . ”
today , the imbalance remains , with the economy too focused on investment and too dependent on credit .
china ’ s current leadership is committed to building a more balanced model , and believes that the market must play a “ decisive role ” in achieving that .
but , while stronger market discipline is needed in some areas , chinese officials should be under no illusion that free markets are a panacea for the financial sector .
indeed , china ’ s current economic imbalances partly reflect the dangers created by competition in credit markets .
even before the 2008 global financial crisis , china ’ s annual invest ment / gdp ratio was running at an exceptionally high 40 % , and economists were calling for a transition to more consumption- led growth .
but the huge credit stimulus introduced in 2009 drove the economy further in the opposite direction .
the investment ratio rose to 47 % by 2012 , and construction now accounts for 30 % of all output . total credit has risen from 130 % of gdp to 200 % , with both bank loans and “ shadow bank ” credit expanding rapidly .
both china and the global economy benefited from that stimulus , which helped prop up overall demand in dangerously deflationary times .
but it has led to significant wasted investment in heavy industry , real estate , and urban infrastructure , and leaves china facing the challenge of deleveraging and working out bad debts .
in many areas , improved market discipline does have an important role to play in addressing the structural causes of imbalance .
wasteful construction investment is encouraged by the under- pricing of rural land .
the lack of a normal ownership relationship between the central government and state-owned enterprises ( soes ) allows the latter to pay minimal dividends and over- invest in business expansion .
caps on interest rates on bank deposits result in household savers supplying a large subsidy to corporate borrowers .
and soes have better access to credit from state-owned banks than private companies do .
but the belief that financial liberalization will provide an easy route to a balanced and stable economy is a delusion , as japan ’ s experience in the 1980 ’ s illustrates .
as joe stud well argues persu asi vely in his book how asia works , neither japan nor south korea based its successful economic development on free markets in credit supply ; instead , they relied on the deliberate direction of credit toward industrial development rather than real estate or consumption .
when japan relaxed constraints on its banking system in the 1980 ’ s , the result was an enormous real-estate boom and subsequent bust , followed by two decades of slow growth and deflation .
china ’ s per capita income is still only about a quarter of japan ’ s in 1990 ; it would be a tragedy if it suffered a similar setback before completing the path to developed-country living standards .
one striking feature of the chinese economy , however , is that real estate and urban infrastructure development – high- rise housing , grand transport projects , convention centers , sports stad iums , and museu ms – already play a far more important role than they did in japan and south korea at comparable stages of economic development .
this reflects the interaction of two distinc tively chinese factors and one inherent feature of all banking systems .
the first chinese factor is the authorities ’ focus on “ urbanization ” as an end in itself , rather than as a by product of industrialization .
the second is china ’ s decentralized approach to economic development , with strong competition between regions and cities often focusing on prestige urban infrastructure projects .
the universal feature in this mix is the fact that banks everywhere can create private credit , money , and purchasing power that did not previously exist , and they have a natural bias , if not constrained by public policy , to allocate it to fund real-estate developments , which drive rising land prices .
the pre-crisis irish and spanish banking systems proved just as capable as chinese state-owned banks at funding excessive real-estate construction .
so , even as china introduc es greater market discipline to a largely positive effect , it must plan to constrain credit creation with policy tools that were missing in the advanced economies before the 2008 crisis .
caps on loan- to- value or loan- to- income ratios on real-estate loans should be used aggressively .
capital requirements for banks should reflect higher risk weights for real-estate lending than banks ’ private assessments of credit risks suggest are appropriate .
the people ’ s bank of china should maintain reserve requirements for commercial banks to contain credit creation , rather than reject them as old-fashioned , as occurred in the advanced economies in the decades before 2008 .
credit provision by shadow banks needs to be tightly regulated .
the credit cycle is too important to be left to free markets .
china thus faces a difficult challenge .
it must undergo a transition not to the western model that produced the 2008 crisis , but to an entirely new model that combines elements of market discipline with strong public-policy constraints .
how smoothly that transition occurs matters for the whole world .
by the early 2020 ’ s , china ’ s gdp will be $ 20 trillion .
if the credit / gdp ratio reaches 250 % by then , total loans and debt securities would equal $ 50 trillion , which is more than three times the total of us mortgage debt in 2008 .
today , much of that debt represents claims within the state sector – owed , for instance , by soes to state-owned banks .
but , as the private sector develops , soes are subjected to hard budget constraints , and the external capital account is opened , this huge credit mountain will create increasing global financial vulnerability .
one hopes that the chinese authorities understand the dangers as well as the benefits of free financial markets better than advanced-economy policymakers did ahead of the 2008 crisis .
if not , another crisis – far more severe than the last – may become inevitable .
the great credit mistake
london – before the financial crisis erupted in 2008 , private credit in most developed economies grew faster than gdp .
then credit growth collapsed .
whether that fall reflected low demand for credit or constrained supply may seem like a technical issue .
but the answer holds important implications for policymaking and prospects for economic growth .
and the official answer is probably wrong .
the prevailing view has usually stressed supply constraints and the policies needed to fix them .
an impaired banking system , it is argued , star ves businesses , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , of the funds they need to expand .
in september 2008 , us president george w. bush wanted to “ free up banks to resume the flow of credit to american families and businesses . ”
the stress tests and recapit alizations of us banks in 2009 were subsequently hailed as crucial to the recovery of both the banking system and the economy .
by contrast , the european central bank ’ s inadequately tough stress tests in 2010 were widely pan ned for leaving eurozone banks too weak to provide adequate credit .
in the united kingdom , banks have been criticized for not lending the reserves created by quantitative easing to the real economy , leading the bank of england to introduce its “ funding for lending ” scheme in 2012 .
in the eurozone , it is hoped that this year ’ s asset quality review ( aq r ) and stress tests will finally dis pel concerns about bank solvency and free up credit supply .
taxpay er- funded bank rescu es , higher bank capital requirements , and ultra- easy monetary policy have all been vital to overcome credit supply constraints .
but there is strong evidence that once the immediate crisis was over , lack of demand for credit played a far larger role than restricted supply in impeding economic growth .
that argument is persu asi vely made by ati f m ian and am ir su fi in house of debt , an important new book that analy zes us data on a coun ty- by- county basis .
m ian and su fi show that the recession was caused by a collapse of household consumption , and that consumption fell most in those coun ties where pre-crisis borrowing and post-crisis real-estate prices left households facing the largest relative losses in net wealth .
it was in those us coun ties , too , that local businesses cut employment most aggressively .
for smes , a shortage of customers , not a shortage of credit , constrained borrowing , employment , and output .
and the customers were absent because the pre-crisis credit boom had left them over- leveraged .
in the uk , many business surveys from 2009- 2012 told the same story .
poor customer demand was ranked well ahead of credit availability as a constraint on growth .
economic growth can indeed continue to be severely depressed by a debt overhang even when credit supply is un restricted and cheap .
many japanese companies were left over leveraged by the boom and bust in credit and real estate in the 1980s and early 1990s .
by the late 1990s , the japanese banking system was offering companies loans at near-zero interest rates .
but , rather than borrow to invest , firms cut investment to pay down debt , driving two decades of stagnation and deflation .
since 2011 , the ecb ’ s analysis of weak eurozone growth has stressed the negative impact of an impaired and fragmented financial system , with high sovereign- bond yields and funding costs for banks resulting in prohib itive lending terms in the peripheral countries .
major progress in fixing these problems has already been achieved .
the ecb ’ s latest monthly bul let in documents this , citing multiple indicators of improved credit availability and pricing .
nonetheless , the rate of decline in private-sector loans has accelerated over the last year – from - 0.6 % to - 2 % – and low demand is acknowledged to be the main driver of depressed credit growth .
simultaneous private deleveraging and fiscal consolidation are restricting eurozone growth far more than remaining restrictions on credit supply .
despite the ecb ’ s own evidence , however , the policy focus remains on fixing the credit- supply problem , through the aq r and stress tests , and through the ecb ’ s own version of a funding for lending scheme , announced on june 5 .
that reflects a recurring tendency in official policy debates , particularly in the eurozone , to concentrate on fix able problems to the exclusion of more difficult issues .
fixing impaired banking systems after a crisis is both essential and achievable .
moreover , even when public rescue costs are inevitable , they are typically small change compared to the economic harm wrought by the financial crisis and post-crisis recession .
by contrast , a large debt overhang may be intractable unless policy orthodo xies are challenged .
japan offset private deleveraging in the 1990s by running massive public deficits .
the us has pulled out of recession faster than the eurozone , not only – or even primarily – because it fixed its banking system faster , but because it pursued more stimul ative fiscal policies .
but fiscal stimulus is constrained within the eurozone , where member countries no longer issue their own currency and “ sovereign ” debt therefore carries a default risk .
aggressive monetary expansion through quantitative easing is also far more complicated and politically contentious in a currency area with no federal debt for the central bank to buy .
to survive and thrive , the eurozone will need to become more centralized , with some common fiscal revenues , expenditures , and debts .
of course , this scenario implies immensely difficult political choices .
if eurozone policy assumes that fixing the banks will fix the economy , the next ten years in europe could look like the 1990s in japan .
inequality by the cl ick
london – pope francis warned in november that “ ideologies which defend the absolute autonomy of the marketplace ” are driving rapid growth in inequality .
is he right ?
in one sense , francis was clearly wrong : in many cases , inequality between countries is decreasing .
the average chinese household , for example , is now catching up with the average american household ( though still with a long way to go ) .
but such examples do not neg ate the importance of rising inequality within countries .
both china and the united states are dramatically unequal societies – and are becoming more so .
in the us , the statistics are striking at both ends of the income distribution .
the bottom quarter of us households have received almost no increase in real ( inflation-adjusted ) income for the last 25 years .
they are no longer sharing the fruits of their country ’ s growth .
the top 1 % of americans , however , have seen their real incomes almost triple during this period , with their share of national income reaching 20 % , a figure not seen since the 1920 ’ s .
in many emerging countries , rapid economic growth has raised living standards to at least some degree for almost everyone , but the share of the rich and ultra- rich is increasing dramatically .
once these countries approach the average income levels of developed economies , and their growth slows to typical rich-country rates , their future may look like america today .
globalization explains some of the bottom - quarter income stagnation in the us and other developed economies .
competition from lower- paid chinese workers has driven down us wages .
but technological change may be a more fundamental factor – and one with consequences for all countries .
technological change is the essence of economic growth .
we get richer because we figure out how to maintain or increase output with fewer employees , and because innovation creates new products and services .
successful new technologies always cause job losses in some sectors , which are offset by new jobs elsewhere .
tr actors destroyed millions of agricultural jobs , for example , but tr actor , tr uck , and car manufacturers created millions of new ones .
but new technologies come in sub tly different forms , with inherently different economic consequences .
today ’ s new technologies may have far more troubling distributional effects than those of the elec tro mechanical age .
imagine that 30 years ago , someone had discovered a set of magic words enabling us to speak to any friend anywhere in the world – “ ab r acad ab ra john ” and you were talking to john , wherever he was .
provided she secured intellectual-property rights , the invent or would have become the richest person in the world ; and her lawyers and those who provided her with luxury goods and services would have become pretty rich , too .
but , beyond that , no new jobs would have been created .
information and communication technology is not cost less magic ; but it is closer to it than were the innovations of the elec tro mechanical age .
the cost of computing hardware collapses over time in line with mo ore ’ s law of relentlessly increasing processing power .
and once software has been developed , the marginal cost of cop ying it is effectively zero .
but the number of jobs created is trivial , too .
in 1979 , general mo tors employed 8 50,000 workers .
today , microsoft employs only 100,000 people worldwide , google employs 50,000 , and facebook employs just 5,000 .
these are mere drops in the ocean of the global labor market , replacing very few of the jobs that information technology has automated away .
but increased unemployment is not inevitable .
there is no limit to the number of service jobs that we can create in retail , restaurants and cat ering , hotels , and an enormous variety of personal services .
walmart , for example , employs two million people , and the us bureau of labor statistics forecasts that more than one million additional jobs will be created in america ’ s leisure and hospit ality sector in the next decade .
but the wages that the market will set for these jobs may result in yet greater inequality .
and there is no reason to believe that politicians ’ all- purpose answer to the problem – “ increase workforce skills ” – will offset this tendency .
however many people learn superior it skills , facebook will never need more than a few thousand employees .
and access to high- paid jobs is likely to be determined not by absolute skill level , but by relative skill in a winner-take-all world .
at least , however , it products and services are very cheap , so even the relatively poor can afford them .
that might make very unequal societies more stable than many fear .
in his recent book average is over , the economist ty ler cow en makes the deliberately provocative argument that while new technology will produce extreme inequality , the relative losers , s ati ated by computer games and internet entertainment , and provided with the bas ics of a minim ally acceptable life , will be too doc ile to revolt .
cow en may be right ; the poor may not rebel .
but extreme inequality should still concern us .
beyond a certain point , unequal outcomes inevitably fuel greater inequality of opportunity ; and extreme inequality of either outcomes or opportunity can undermine the idea that we should all be equal as citizens , if not in material standard of living .
so pope francis was right : despite capitalism ’ s undoub ted success as a system for generating economic growth , we can not rely on market forces alone to generate desirable social outcomes .
all new technologies create opportunities , but free markets will distribute the fruits of some new technologies in dramatically unequal ways .
offsetting such outcomes will be a greater challenge today than it has been in the past .
protectionist shadows over solar power
cambridge – as july ended , a settlement was reached in the world ’ s largest anti- dumping dispute , with china agreeing to a minimum price for the solar panels that it exports to the european union .
the solution is much less severe than what had been the imminent alternative : eu tariffs on chinese solar panels were set to rise to 4 7.6 % , as a result of the european commission ’ s “ finding ” that china – whose market share now stands at 80 % in europe – had been “ dumping . ”
nonetheless , the settlement is a bad outcome for consumers – and for the environment .
the china- eu dispute parallels a similar one between china and the united states .
last fall , the us introduced tariffs of 2 4- 36 % against chinese solar- panel imports , after the commerce department determined that china had been “ dumping ” – which is generally defined as selling at a price below cost – into the american market .
china , citing its own finding of us dumping of pol ys il icon – a key input in the production of solar panels – into its market , has already retali ated by imposing import tariffs that could exceed 50 % .
the solar- panel disputes may sound narrow and es o ter ic , but they go to the heart of the long- running debate over globalization .
anti-globalization activists ’ most powerful argument is that even if free trade is good for economic progress overall , it might undermine important public goods such as environmental protection .
but trade can also have beneficial environmental effects .
specialization in each country allows people to obtain more of what they want , which , especially at higher income levels , includes cleaner air and water .
when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods .
so , is trade globalization , on balance , better or worse for the environment ?
some empirical studies of cross- country data find net beneficial effects on indicators of environmental degradation like local sul fur - dioxide air pollution .
provided that countries have effective governance institutions at the national level , trade and growth give them the means to clean their air .
but the evidence also suggests that trade and growth can exacerbate other forms of environmental degradation , particularly carbon-dioxide emissions , because co2 is a global extern ality that can not be addressed at the national level , owing to the free- rid er problem .
the solar- power industry is a perfect example of how trade can benefit air quality .
skeptics of solar power have long argued that its share in electricity generation can not rise above a few percentage points without massive subsidies , because it is too costly compared to the alternatives .
proponents , for their part , counter that temporary moderate subsidies would expand the industry , with economies of scale and lear n ing- by- doing then bringing down costs sharply .
but proponents have focused too much on government subsidies and too little on the contribution of international trade , which in recent years has had a highly positive effect on the development of solar power , as the bon an za of chinese panels held down costs .
the current embrace of protectionism threatens to reverse this progress .
with the loss of cheap solar panels from china , and with subsidies that helped to drive the european industry now reduced for fiscal reasons , the share of solar power in europe will fall far short of environmentalists ’ goals .
but “ findings ” of “ dumping ” into foreign markets surely warrant some response , no ?
actually , no .
for starters , even those who are generally sympathetic to trade and markets often have the impression that anti- dumping laws target “ predatory pricing , ” a practice in which a large producer sells below cost in order to drive its competitors into bankruptcy , at which point it can raise the price and reap monopoly profits .
but that is not even the way anti- dumping laws are usually written , let alone applied .
simply put , anti- dumping measures , such as the us and eu tariffs against chinese solar panels , are a means of reducing , not fostering , competition .
so , if predatory pricing is not the producers ’ motive for selling below cost in these cases , what is ?
the solar- panel industry worldwide – in china , europe , and the us – is experiencing a glut of productive capacity .
as a result , global supply and demand are balanced at a market price that is below the long-term average cost per unit , which includes a share of the cost already incurred in building the factories .
but that market price is not below the short-term cost of keeping the factories running once they are built .
in other words , producers sell at prices that are “ below cost , ” because , having already built the factories , they would lose even more money if they charged above the competitive market price or shut down production altogether .
when the us or eu finds that china is “ dumping ” solar panels , or when china finds that the us is “ dumping ” pol ys il icon , they are using average cost rather than marginal cost .
by this criterion , dumping occurs every time a store has a clear ance sale .
some have compared the negotiated agreements to limit china ’ s solar- panel exports to past “ voluntary export restraints ” ( vers ) or “ orderly marketing arrangements ” in the steel and consumer- electronic industries , especially those that japan agreed to apply to its exports to the us in the 1980 ’ s .
but a more revealing precedent is japan ’ s vers on exports of au tos during this period .
american autom akers had found it increasingly difficult to compete against smaller , more fuel- efficient japanese imports .
when free trade was eventually restored , american wal lets and air quality benefited ( and the us auto industry was forced to become more efficient ) .
the same is true of trade in solar equipment today .
westerners should thank chinese panel producers for their contribution to keeping solar power viable , not penalize them through protectionist anti- dumping measures .
the russian go d father
warsaw – russian president vladimir putin is behaving like a mafia boss .
in invading , occupying , and finally annex ing crimea , he pointed russia ’ s guns at ukraine and said : your territorial sovereignty or your life .
so far , ex tor tion has worked – and putin knows it .
indeed , in his speech announcing the annexation of crimea , putin spoke his mind : his regime fears no punishment and will do whatever it pleas es .
crimea is just the first step toward realizing his dream of revived russian greatness .
his address in the kremlin was a tissue of lies and manipulation , though a subtle analysis would be a waste of time .
the simple fact is that the president of one of the world ’ s most powerful countries has embarked on a path of confrontation with the entire international community .
his speech sm acked of the fe vered , paranoid world of f y od or do sto y ev sky ’ s dem ons , con j uring as it did a delu sional alternative universe – a place that does not exist and has never existed .
what does kosovo , where the alban ians suffered persecution and ethnic cleansing , have in common with the situation in crimea , whose people have never been oppressed by ukrainians ?
what is the point in dis playing open contempt for ukraine ’ s government , parliament , and people ?
why label ukrainian authorities “ fascist and anti-semitic ” ?
crim ean tat ars pay no heed to the fair y tal es about fasci sts ruling ukraine ; they can still remember the brutal and murderous mass de port ations of their parents and grandparents , ordered by stalin and carried out by the n k v d .
in putin ’ s mind , the whole world has discrim inated against russia for the last three centuries .
russia ’ s bloody despo ts – ca ther ine ii , nicholas i , or stalin – apparently never discrim inated against anyone .
putin also warns that “ you and we – the russians and the ukrainians – could lose crimea completely . ”
yet he fails to spec ify who – perhaps poles and lithu an ians again ? – are setting their sights on se vast op ol .
russia could not , according to putin , leave the people of crimea “ alone in their predicament . ”
these words prompt a sad smile ; leonid brezhnev used precisely the same phrase in august 1968 to justify the red army ’ s intervention in czechoslovakia to help beleaguered communist hardliners there crush the prague spring reform movement .
“ we want ukraine to be a strong , sovereign , and independent country , ” says putin .
stalin said the same thing about poland in 1945 .
brave russian democrats who have not yet been silenced have already remarked on the similarity between putin ’ s appeal to ethnic solidarity in annex ing crimea and hitler ’ s stance during the ans ch lus s and the su de ten crisis in 1938 .
this is the real end of history – the history of dreams about a world governed by democratic values and the market economy .
unless the democratic world understands that now is not the time for faith in diplomatic compromise , and that it must respond strongly enough to stop putin ’ s imperial designs , events could follow a logic that is too dread ful to contemplate .
it takes force to stop a thu g , not sharp words or cos metic sanctions .
i comm end and take pride in poland ’ s prudent and determined policy and the attitude of its public , which do us great credit .
but we must recognize that the best quarter-century in the last 400 years of polish history is about to end before our very eyes .
we must appreciate what we have managed to achieve – and learn to protect it .
mafia bosses often meet an unhappy fate , and i do not think that putin will fare much better in the end .
unfortunately , many people are likely to be hurt in the meantime , not least those who now support him .
living with climate change
rot ter dam – for anyone still undec ided about the consequences of global warming , the summer of 2018 , one of the ho tt est on record , should have tipped the scales .
across far- fl ung long itu des and l ati tudes , regions are struggling with the fallout from large-scale climate-related events .
in the southern united states , cities and towns pum mel ed by hurricane florence in september were still dr ying out when hurricane michael brought more flooding in october .
in california , fi ref igh ters are battling the emb ers of the largest wild fire in state history .
and in parts of latin america , europe , africa , and asia , agricultural output is in fre ef all following months of stifling heat .
cool er weather has done little to ease the suffering .
according to the national oce anic and atmospheric administration , “ moderate ” to “ exceptional ” drought conditions cover 2 5.1 % of the united states .
but “ extreme ” and “ exceptional ” drought – the worst categories – expanded to cover 6. 3 % of the country , up from 6 % in mid- september .
regions in australia also are struggling with the worst drought in a generation .
in fact , for a growing number of people around the world , floods , land sli des , and he at waves – japan ’ s summer in a nu t shell – is the new normal .
a recent study in the journal plo s medicine projects a fiv ef old increase in he at- related deaths in the us by 20 80 ; the outlook for poorer countries is even worse .
the climate debate is no longer about causes ; fossil fuels and human activity are the culprits .
rather , the question is how billions of at- risk people and businesses can rapidly adapt and ensure their communities are as resilient as possible .
even if the world meets the paris climate agreement ’ s target of limiting the increase in global temperature to 2º celsius relative to pre-industrial levels , adaptation will still be critical , because climate extremes are now the new normal .
some communities have already recognized this , and local adaptation is well under way .
in melbourne , australia , for example , planners are working to double the city ’ s tree can op y by 2040 , an approach that will lower temperatures and reduce he at- related deaths .
similarly , in ahmed abad , a city of over seven million people in western india , authorities have launched a major initiative to cover ro of s in reflec tive paint to lower temperatures on “ heat islands , ” urban areas that trap the sun ’ s warm th and make city living unbearable , even at night .
these are just two of the many infra structural responses that communities around the world have undertaken .
but adapting to climate change will also mean managing the long-term economic fallout of extreme weather , and this is a requirement that countries are only beginning to take seriously .
consider water scarcity .
according to a 2016 world bank analysis , dr ought- related water crises in africa and the middle east could reduce gdp in these regions by as much as 6 % by 2050 .
that would be painful anywhere , but it would be devastating in regions already rife with political turmoil and humanitarian crises .
at the same time , rising sea levels will cause severe damage to coastal areas .
the decline in property values will have far-reaching implications not only for individual wealth , but also for the tax bases of communities and the industries that serve them .
a related concern is that homes and businesses around the world will eventually become under- insured or even un insur able , owing to the frequency of wea ther -related catastrophes .
no single international organization or authority has all the answers to the casc ade of challenges that climate change has triggered .
but some are taking key leadership roles and pushing governments and local communities to act with more urgency .
one of the more promising initiatives to accelerate solutions , launched just this week , is the global commission on adaptation , chaired by former un secretary-general ban ki-moon , microsoft co- founder bill gates , and world bank ceo kr ist al ina georg iev a .
over the next 15 years , the world will need to invest some $ 90 trillion in infrastructure improvements .
how these projects proceed , and whether they are designed with low-carbon features , could lead the world toward a mor e- climate resilient future – or they could undermine food , water , and security for decades to come .
a daughter of dictatorship and democracy
seoul – it is something of a clich é question in south korea nowadays : who would be the country ’ s next president if the election were held tomorrow , rather than in december 2012 ?
numerous opinion polls show park geun-hye of the ruling grand national party ( gnp ) to be the leading candidate .
if elected , she would be south korea ’ s first woman president , and , for her rivals , her dominant position in the race is an uncomfortable but un ass ail able fact .
south korean voters of all ages and regions have welcomed park as a candidate for their country ’ s leadership .
her political style is both re fresh ing and relevant , because she comes across as sincere and for thr ight at a time when the public is hungry for moral leadership .
and she has an astonishing talent for simp lifying complicated issues accurately , which she likely learned – along with how to interpret and manipulate the political con not ations of every issue – from her father , former president park ch ung- he e .
ac claimed as a national hero among radical right- w ing ers , the ir on- f isted park ch ung- he e ruled south korea from 1963 to 1979 , in the wake of the 1961 military coup , only to be assassinated by his intelligence chief .
his daughter is proud of his legacy , which marked the beginning of south korea ’ s economic boom .
indeed , as a pillar of export-oriented modernity , park ch ung- he e was once lion ized as the ar che type of a modernizing political leadership in military- authoritarian states .
at home , he still ranks first in popularity among the country ’ s heads of state , kind ling nostalgia like a popular old record – a cor oll ary to people ’ s frustration and anger at the current government of president lee my ung- b ak .
park , who lost her first bid for the gnp ’ s nomination to lee in 2007 , needs to ensure that no rupture with her er st while rival knoc ks her off the path to victory in 2012 .
an ast ute politician , park did not hesitate to campaign whol e hear tedly for lee the last time around – a move that , as part of long-term political strategy , made perfect sense .
to many south koreans , the election is now park ’ s to lose .
no candidate on the horizon seems able to stop her .
if she wins , it will be the result of her seriousness and ten acity , not her political heritage .
no one in south korea ’ s conservative movement doubts that park is one of them .
and , as an icon of the right , she is well aware that she can not afford to betr ay her status .
despite her charisma , park is neither a sar ah palin nor an eva per on .
indeed , she looks more like a korean margaret thatcher – a lady not for turning , in thatcher ’ s famous phrase , and with clearly though t- through political principles anim ating her actions .
in any case , she seems destined to establish a new south korea focusing on her landmark pledge ‘ ju l pu  se , ’ literally meaning ‘ reduc e- loos en- strengthen tax- cuts , ’ deregulation , and law and order , not just to add another chapter to her father ’ s old book .
her administration would mark a fresh departure from the country ’ s troubled recent past .
left-leaning pundits claim that the dictator ’ s daughter has the same autocratic vision as her father , though park invariably prefers incremental change to radical measures , and cut her political teeth in the tough -minded politics of the gnp .
others take a flag ran tly sex ist stance , arguing that a woman president would be a non- star ter as long as the north korean regime continues to threaten national security .
she has been called the “ queen of elections , ” in particular since she won a campaign in 2006 after being slashed with a box cut ter by a der anged man .
but she must convinc ingly out line practical strategies to resolve south korea ’ s most serious problems , including high unemployment , worsening educational performance , and north korea ’ s nuclear weapons program .
m s. park once pledged to provide loans for working-class families from elementary school to college years , while cont ending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy .
she favors engagement policy and the six-party talks so as to resolve the nuclear troubles .
come presidential elec tion- day in 2012 , south korean voters will pick the candidate who embodies pragmatism and centr ism over a partisan or ideolog ue .
park ’ s success will depend , in the end , on the effectiveness of her campaign in further defining her character along those lines .
unlike former per u vian dictator al berto fu jim or i ’ s daughter , who lost her presidential bid in peru last month , park is likely to defy her family ’ s tragic history .
if she does , she will be asia ’ s most powerful woman , perhaps the most powerful in the world , at the end of next year .
a day for planetary justice
princeton – what we are doing to our planet , to our children and grandchildren , and to the poor , by our he ed less production of greenhouse gases , is one of the great moral wrong s of our age .
on october 24 , you can stand up against this injustice .
october 24 is 350 day .
the name comes from the number of parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that , according to jim hansen , perhaps the world ’ s leading climate scientist , we should not exceed if we are to avoid potentially catastrophic climate change .
it is a measure of the seriousness of our problem that co2 is already at 3 86 pp m , and is rising by two pp m each year .
the need to cut greenhouse gases has become increasingly clear as predictions of global warming – denounced as “ alarm ist ” when they were first made just a few years ago – have repeatedly turned out to have been too conservative .
we are approaching a point of no return , at which feedback lo ops will kick in and continue to warm the planet , no matter what we do .
the melting of arctic ice is one example .
four hundred years ago , explor ers sought the legendary “ northeast passage ” across the north of europe and russia to china .
they found the arctic ice im penetr able , and soon gave up their quest .
this year , commercial vessels successfully navig ated the northeast passage .
that is one of many recent dramatic signs that our climate is changing and that our planet is warmer than it has been for a very long time .
but ic e- free arctic waters are more than a symptom of global warming . they are themselves a cause of further warming : ice and snow reflect the sun ’ s ra ys .
an ic e- free surface absor bs more warm th from the sun than one covered in snow or ice . in other words , our greenhouse gas emissions have , by causing enough warming to mel t the arctic ice , created a feedback loop that will generate more warming , and mel t more ice , even if we were to stop emitting all greenhouse gases tomorrow .
other feedback lo ops pose a similar danger .
in siberia , vast quantities of methane , an extremely potent greenhouse gas , are locked up in what used to be called “ per ma fro st ” – regions in which it was assumed that the ground was permanently frozen .
but areas that used to be frozen are now th aw ing , releasing methane and thus contributing to further warming – and to further th aw ing , which rele ases more methane .
developing nations are gras ping just how outrageous the current distribution of greenhouse-gas emissions really is .
at the united nations summit on climate change in september , president paul k ag ame of rwanda pointed out that , while developed nations outside africa are almost entirely responsible for the problem , its greatest impact will probably be on africa , which has few resources to cope with the challenge .
k ag ame then suggested giving every country an annual per capita quota for co2 emissions , and allowing developing countries that are below the quota to trade their excess quota with countries that are above theirs .
sri lanka took a similar stance , using studies from the un intergovernmental panel on climate change to calculate that in 2008 , environmentally permissible carbon emissions totaled no more than 2, 17 2 kilograms per person .
in fact , the world ’ s per capita emissions were 4, 700 kilograms , or more than double the permissible limit .
but , while emissions in the rich nations were far above the permissible limit , sri lan kan emissions were , at 6 60 kilograms , well below it .
as sri lanka ’ s government pointed out , “ that means low- emitting countries like us could not emit more because our space has already been exploited by developed or global heavy polluting countries without our consent . ”
this situation is an injustice of vast proportions , reminiscent of – and arguably much worse than – the now- repudi ated colonialism of the western powers in the nineteenth century .
the task of re med ying it must begin at the meeting on climate change that will be held in copenhagen in december .
many political leaders have expressed support for strong action on climate change , but what most of them regard as “ strong action ” will not be enough to get us back below 350 pp m .
in some countries , including the united states , there are major political obstacles to taking even modest steps .
on october 24 , people in nearly every country will be taking action to raise awareness of the need for an international treaty to bring our atmosphere back to 350 pp m of co2 .
there will be clim bers hanging ban ners high in the himalay as , where the glaciers are melting , and s cuba di vers at australia ’ s great barrier re ef , which is threatened by climate change .
churches will ring bel ls 350 times , 350 cy cli sts will circle towns , and , in many places , 350 trees will be planted .
at www. 3 5 0. or g you can find out what is happening near you and join in , or put your own idea online .
but don ’ t just sit back and hope that others will do enough to make an impact .
one day your grandchildren will ask you : what did you do to meet the greatest moral challenge of your time ?
a day of liberation
when i was seven years old , in 1960 , my grand mother angel ica opened my eyes to the meaning of 8 may 1945 , the day when nazi germany surr endered and world war ii ended in europe .
we were spending our summer hol id ays in nor man dy where the liberation of europe from nazism had started on d- day , 6 june 1944 .
one evening , i listened to my parents and my grand mother talking about the past .
i have forgotten the details of their conversation , but i can still hear my grand mother ’ s sig h of relief when she said “ thank god we lost that war ! ”
from a child ’ s perspective , it wasn ’ t self- evident that losing was a good thing .
but of course , my grand mother was right to equ ate defeat with liberation .
the more i have thought about the lesson she taught me 45 years ago , the clearer i have seen another , less obvious dimension in what she said : it is “ we ” who lost the war .
collectively , the germans had not been the innocent victims of a small gang of criminal outsiders called “ nazis ” – nazism had been an inside ideology supported by millions of germans , and every german was liable for its atrocities whether or not he or she had adh ered to it individually .
in today ’ s germany , an overwhelming majority subscr ibes to the proposition that 8 may 1945 was a day of liberation – not only for europe , but also for germany itself .
compared to public opinion in 1960 , that ’ s certainly an enormous progress .
but paradoxically , it may also contain an element of for ge t fulness , because it tends to conceal the fact that liberation required a military defeat .
to use my grand mother ’ s parl ance , it is not “ us ” who were the liber ators , but “ them ” .
the way people see the past tells us more about their present attitudes than about the past itself .
this is what the term “ politics of memory ” is meant to indicate . and this is why it doesn ’ t matter whether the relevant events happened 60 years ago ( as world war ii ) , 90 years ( as in the case of the armenian genocide ) or even 600 years ( such as the battle of kosovo in 13 89 ) .
a war of memories , in turn , may sometimes lead to a violent conflict in the future .
former perpetrators often try to de- legitimize their former victims ’ moral superiority by claiming they were victims themselves .
therefore , the 60th anniversary of the fire bombing of dres den by allied forces on 13 february 1945 has probably been a more crucial moment in terms of the german “ politics of memory ” than the 60th anniversary of 8 may 1945 is going to be .
far-right groups infam ously dubbed the attack by which at least 30,000 people were killed “ dres den ’ s holocaust of bombs . ”
fortunately , their propaganda campaign has been a failure .
although it is true that thousands of the civilians killed in dres den and other german cities were innocent at an individual level , there can be no doubt it was morally imperative that germany be defeated collectively .
on the left side of the german political spectrum , the proposition that 8 may 1945 was a day of liberation remains unchallenged .
however , it is sometimes repressed that the massive use of force had been necessary to achieve that result .
left-wing pacif ism tends to overlook this simple fact .
its slogan “ never again war ! ” is only half the truth – the other half is “ never again appeasement ! ” 8 may 1945 was not “ zero hour , ” as a popular saying in germany goes .
it had an an tec ed ent , that is , a lack of pre-emptive resistance at home and abroad to the threat that built up in nazi germany during the 1930 ’ s .
there is yet another lesson to be learned .
yes , 8 may 1945 was a day of liberation to which the soviet army contributed decisively .
but for millions of central and east europeans , liberation was followed by stalin ’ s oppressive regime .
the current war of memories between the baltic republics and russia , with regard to the international celebration in moscow on 9 may this year , reminds germany of a special historic responsibility .
the german- soviet non- aggression treaty , the so-called hit l er- stalin pact , concluded in august 1939 , had been supplemented by a secret ap pen di x dividing the border states finland , estonia , latvia , lithuania , poland and romania into spheres of interest for the two parties .
but exc using nazi atrocities by pointing to stal inist crimes is an intellectually and morally unacceptable strat ag em .
when chancellor schröder travel s to moscow for the red square celebrations , he should bear in mind nazi germany ’ s contribution to the baltic tragedy .
on 8 may this year , public speakers will remind us how important it is not to forget .
they will stress that if the lessons of history are not learned , history is bound to repeat itself .
all this is perfectly true .
but personally , i will also remember my grand mother ’ s sentence “ thank god we lost that war ! ”
thank god – and thanks to all those brave allied soldiers who sacrificed their lives for the sake of europe ’ s liberty .
cr ashing the sdr
s anta barbar a – the chinese government ’ s campaign to have its currency , the renminbi , included in the international monetary fund ’ s reserve asset appears to be on the brink of success .
last week , imf staff formally recommended adding the renminbi to the basket of currencies that determines the value of its so-called special drawing rights ( sdrs ) .
the addition of the renminbi to the basket , which currently includes the us dollar , the euro , the british pound , and the japanese yen , would provide china with a boost to its prestige .
more important , it would advance the government ’ s efforts to internation alize the renminbi .
but it would also be a mistake .
as such , the long-term consequences are likely to be regrett able .
on a purely technical basis , the renminbi ’ s qualifications for inclusion in the sdr basket are questionable .
traditionally , the imf has insisted on two criteria : a currency ’ s issuing country must be among the world ’ s leading exporters , and the currency must be “ freely usable ” – widely used and traded .
as the world ’ s largest exporter , china clearly meets the first condition .
the second , however , is probably still beyond its reach .
the renminbi is by no means in the same league as the sdr basket ’ s four incumbent currencies .
in 2014 , china ’ s currency ranked seventh in global central-bank reserves , eighth in international bond issuance , and 11 th in global currency trading .
moreover , the renminbi remains non- conver tible for most capital transactions , china ’ s financial markets are primitive , and trading margins for the exchange rate are still set daily by the monetary authorities .
indeed , as recently as august , the imf was skeptical about adding the renminbi to the sdr basket , saying that “ significant work ” was still needed , and suggesting that a decision should be put off until 2016 in order to ensure a “ smooth ” transition .
so why did the imf flip ?
the answer is obvious : china mounted a full- court press to change minds .
in august , the currency ’ s exchange-rate regime was loos ened slightly .
renminbi- denominated government bonds were issued in london , and plans were laid to create new trading platforms for the currency in several european financial centers .
and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with a negative decision .
their pressure paid off .
one by one , western governments fell in line behind the renminbi , despite its practical limitations .
the fund got the message , and now the fix is in .
the recommendation to en large the sdr basket has been warm ly backed by christine lagarde , the imf ’ s managing director , and a final decision by the fund ’ s executive board is expected at the end of the month .
many would argue that this is a positive development .
certainly , it mol lifies china ’ s leaders , offering them a stronger incentive to continue to work within the existing international monetary regime .
recent chinese initiatives , especially the creation of the asian infrastructure investment bank , have given rise to fears that the country intends to build a new set of international institutions to compete with western- dominated organizations like the imf .
the decision to add the renminbi to the sdr basket may have put that danger into re mission .
on the other hand , the move sets a worrying precedent , injec ting politics into a policy area that had been governed by objective economic considerations .
conceivably , over the longer term , china ’ s successful campaign could now open the door to lobbying by other governments to include their currencies as well .
why not add the swiss franc or the canadian dollar ?
or , for that matter , why not include the russian ruble or indian rupee ?
what was once the dignified preserve of obviously elite currencies could become the site of messy political battles for elevated status .
of course , it can be argued that china ’ s recent economic trajectory means that it is only a matter of time before the renminbi does become a match for the sdr ’ s incumbents .
after all , international use of the currency has been growing exponentially .
likewise , use of the renminbi for the purpose of invo icing and settling trade with china is bound to continue growing .
but in terms of the all- important roles of a currency as an investment vehicle or reserve asset , the outlook for the renminbi is much less promising , owing to china ’ s still- tight capital controls and low level of financial development .
nor is inclusion of the renminbi in the sdr basket likely to provide as big a boost to the currency ’ s internationalization as many believe .
some central banks may decide to follow suit , adding renminbi- denominated assets to their reserves to match the composition of the basket .
but the increase will be marginal at best – some $ 40 billion in the next few years , according to the imf ’ s calculations .
with global reserves now totaling more than $ 10 trillion , that is a mere drop in the proverbial buc ket .
the political reasons for including the renminbi in the sdr are all too clear .
unfortunately , the risks of doing so are no less obvious .
a defeat for international tax cooperation
new york – most of the world ’ s governments – eager to mobilize more tax revenues to finance development and curb pervasive tax- avoidance schemes , such as those revealed in the so-called luxembourg leaks scandal last year – have an interest in collaborating on taxation matters .
yet at the third international conference on financing for development , held in addis ababa last month , the momentum toward strengthening international tax cooperation came to an abrupt halt .
developed countries blocked a proposal at the conference to establish an intergovernmental tax body within the united nations to replace the current un committee of experts .
these countries insist that tax cooperation should take place exclusively under the leadership of the oecd , a body that they control .
the rest of the world should hope this will prove to be a pause rather than an end to progress on international tax cooperation , which began 13 years ago , at the first international conference on financing for development in mon ter rey , mexico .
two years later , in 2004 , the united nations economic and social council ( ecos oc ) upgraded its “ ad hoc group ” of tax experts to a regular committee .
this meant that the experts would meet regularly and have an expanded mandate that went beyond merely up dating a model double- taxation treaty .
four years later , at the second conference on financing for development , in doha , qatar , policymakers acknowledged that more needed to be done in tax matters , and asked ecos oc to consider strengthening institutional arrangements .
and then , in the year leading up to the addis ababa conference , the un secretary-general endorsed the need for “ an intergovernmental committee on tax cooperation , under the auspices of the united nations . ”
his endorsement , along with strong support from nongovernmental organizations and the independent commission for the reform of international corporate taxation , gave greater force to the demand by developing countries , organized around the group of 77 and china , for an equal voice in setting global tax norms .
up until the 11 th hour of negotiations in addis ababa , they stood firm in calling for an intergovernmental body with the mandate and resources to create a coherent global framework for international tax cooperation .
but to no av ail : developed countries , led by the united states and the united kingdom – home to many of the multinational corporations implicated in the “ lu x leaks ” – succeeded in blocking this much-needed advance in global governance .
in the end , the addis ababa action agenda provides that the current committee of experts will continue to function according to its 2004 mandate , with three additional meeting days per year , all funded through voluntary contributions .
that is a profoundly disappointing outcome .
the developed countries have an argument – but not a convincing one .
the oecd , whose members are essentially the world ’ s 34 richest countries , certainly has the capacity to set international standards on taxation .
yet the domination of a select group of countries over tax norms has meant that , in reality , the global governance architecture for taxation has not kept pace with globalization .
the mon ter rey consensus reached in 2002 included a call to enhance “ the voice and participation of developing countries in international economic decision-making and norm s- setting . ”
but although the oecd inv ites some developing countries to participate in its discussions to establish norms , it offers them no decision-making power .
the oecd is thus a weak surrog ate for a globally representative intergovernmental forum .
despite the disappointment in addis ababa , the call for reform of the international tax system is not likely to be silenced .
instead , it will grow louder on all sides , as the developed countries ’ counter-productive resistance to any give and take on international cooperation results in a tsunami of unilateral tax measures beyond oecd control .
the making of euro- jihadism
madrid – the belg ian historian hen ri pir en ne linked europe ’ s birth as a christian continent in the eighth century to its rupture with islam .
pir en ne probably would never have expected a muslim ghet to in brussels to emerge , much less become a hub of jihadism , with marginalized and angry young muslims revol ting against europe from within its own borders .
divorce is not an option these days .
but nor is the kind of marriage that the islam scholar tari q ram ad an advocates .
ram ad an , a grand son of the founder of the muslim brotherhood in egypt , is a swiss citizen and a resident of the united kingdom who argues that islamic ethics and values should be injected into the european system .
europe would then not just tolerate islam , but actually embrace it as an integral part of itself .
the problem with ram ad an ’ s vision is that europe is an overwhelmingly secular continent , with a profoundly for ward- thinking approach to ethics .
islamic societies , by contrast , are both deeply religious and deeply embedded in the past .
when islamists speak of political or social reform , they are typically looking backward , hoping to resurrec t a time when core european principles – from gender equality to gay marriage – were repudi ated .
even muslims who support the modernization of islam would typically stop well short of europe ’ s ethical vision .
the flaws in ram ad an ’ s proposed solution to euro- jihadism mirror the flaws in his explanation for the phenomenon , which he attributes largely to europe ’ s involvement in the wars in the middle east , its supposed collusion with israel ’ s suppression of the palestinians , and its support of arab autocrats .
“ we can not , ” he writes , “ support dictatorships … be silent when civilians are massac red south of our borders , and hope that we will not receive a response to the injustice and humiliation we have provoked . ”
but it is the united states that launched wars in iraq and afghanistan , offers unconditional support to israel , and has repeatedly propped up arab autocrats .
and it is europe that has consistently criticized these policies – often harsh ly .
yet america is not being subjected to a major surge of jihadist sentiment within its borders .
it might have helped that us president barack obama backed away from some of these policies .
when the arab spring uprisings began , for example , he was quick to cut support for tunisian president z ine el ab id ine ben ali and egyptian president hosni mubarak , allowing protesters – inspired by the western model of democracy – to secure regime change .
the return to autocracy in egypt in 2013 , via abdel fat tah el- sisi ’ s coup d ’ é tat , certainly was not aided by the us or europe , both of which supported the democratically elected muslim brotherhood .
europe has offered even more direct help to arab countries in recent years .
if it were not for europe ’ s military intervention , libyans would still be living under the tyrann ical muammar el-qaddafi .
true , europe could have done more to prevent the ensuing chaos in libya .
but the people of libya surely must take responsibility for the proliferation of competing militias that refuse to unite to save their state from total collapse .
more broadly , though the west – especially the us – has made grave policy errors in the arab world over the last 50 years , external powers can not be blamed entirely for the region ’ s meltdown .
that is the result of a profound civil iz ational crisis – one that can be red ressed only by the people of the arab world .
if europe ’ s foreign policy is not responsible for the arab world ’ s current turmoil , it certainly can not be the reason for the rise of jihadism within its own borders .
the real problem lies at home : a disastrous deficit of effective policies related to social justice , education , housing , and employment for young european muslims .
this link is apparent in the fact that the majority of european jihadists come from under privileged backgrounds .
not particularly well vers ed in the true teachings of islam , and lacking opportunities to improve their lives , they become easy prey for extremists .
jihadism , with its absolute certainty and grand mission , offers a sense of purpose , pride , and identity – not to mention adventure – and an out let for their anger against the “ home ” that has denied them those things .
the story of america ’ s muslims is the measure of europe ’ s failure .
like most americans , muslims in the us maintain a certain amount of faith in the american dream .
they are mostly middle class , and , despite all the talk about rising economic inequality , they have not given up on the belief that , in the us , hard work and initiative are rewarded .
america is a country of immigrants , with a dynamic economy that has enabled newcomers , time and again , to achieve great success .
in europe , by contrast , improving one ’ s social standing has always been very difficult ; and , at a time of economic stagnation and stagger ingly high unemployment , it is not getting any easier .
socially , america also offers something to muslims that europe does not .
its fundamentally religious culture enables muslims to retain their identity to a far greater extent than in secular europe .
indeed , america ’ s core values – personal responsibility and constitutional patriotism – can be easier for muslims to sw allow than europe ’ s more aggressively secular brand of liberalism .
as a result , integration and assimil ation tend to be easier for muslims in america .
all of this suggests that europe must look inward to address homegrown jihadism effectively .
this does not mean that it should temper its secularism , much less its liberal values .
rather , europe must breathe life into its own “ european dream , ” ensuring that all people have access to real opportunities to improve their lives .
otherwise , it will face a lost generation of millions of young europeans – muslim and otherwise .
the new climate economics
new york – this friday , in its latest comprehensive assessment of the evidence on global warming , the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change will show that the world ’ s climate scientists are more certain than ever that human activity – largely combustion of fossil fuels – is causing temperatures and sea levels to rise .
in recent years , a series of extreme weather events – including hurricane sandy in new york and new jer sey , floods in china , and droughts in the american mid west , russia , and many developing countries – have caused immense damage .
last week , mexico experienced simultaneous hurricanes in the pacific and in the gulf of mexico that devastated towns and cities in their path .
climate change will be a major driver of such events , and we risk much worse .
this puts a new debate center stage : how to reconcile increased action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions with strong economic growth .
it is a debate that is already mired in controversy .
as most countries have started making serious investments in renewable energy , and many are implementing carbon prices and regulations , critics complain that such policies may undermine growth .
with the global economy still recovering from the 2008 financial crash , higher energy costs – not yet fully offset by greater energy efficiency – are worrying business and political leaders .
the advent of shale gas has confused the energy debate even more .
if gas is substitu ted for coal , it can be a useful bridge to a low-carbon future .
but aston ishingly , it is coal , the dir ti est fuel , that is experiencing the shar p est increase in use .
companies and investors are hedging their bets by taking a few resource- efficiency measures and investing in some low-carbon assets , but leaving their high- carbon portfolios and activities largely intact .
advocates of stronger action respond that low-carbon investments can generate much stronger , cleaner growth .
they point to the savings available from energy efficiency , and to the market opportunities generated by clean-energy technologies as the processes of learning and discovery take hold .
they seek to demonstrate the benefits that a more sustainable pattern of development can bring to the world ’ s cities , to people ’ s health ( from the reduction in air pollution ) , to energy security , and to the ability of the world ’ s poor to access energy .
and they propose green bonds and public investment banks to finance new infrastructure and jobs at a time when world interest rates are low and demand is depressed in many countries .
these are serious economic debates , but too often they have become entang led in ideological disputes about the appropriate response to the economic crisis and the value of government intervention in markets .
that is regrett able .
climate change is not a partisan issue , and climate policy is essentially market-based .
it is about correcting market failures so that markets and entrepreneurship can play their proper role of ensuring innovation and efficient resource allocation .
in order to escape this impasse , we have helped to launch the global commission on the economy and climate .
the commission ’ s new climate economy project brings together seven leading policy research institutes from six continents , overseen by a panel of former heads of government and finance ministers and prominent business leaders , and advised by a panel of leading economists from across the world .
its purpose is to provide author itative new evidence concerning how governments and businesses can achieve stronger economic growth while simultaneously addressing climate risks .
few governments or investors start from the standpoint of climate change .
they want to promote investment and economic growth , create jobs , stabilize public finances , expand markets , turn profits , ensure reliable energy and food supplies , produce goods and services , reduce poverty , and build cities .
so the primary question that we need to ask is not whether we can reduce emissions , but how public policy can help to achieve these core goals while reducing emissions and building a more climate- resilient economy .
there is now a lot of experience around the world in this area .
when the stern review on the economics of climate change was published seven years ago , the subject was largely theoretical .
now countries at all stages of development are pursuing new patterns of economic growth that take climate into account .
germany , for example , is planning the world ’ s most ambitious low-carbon energy transition , based on energy conservation and renewables .
south korea has made “ green growth ” a central economic goal .
mexico ’ s 2012 general law on climate change has put it on course for a major increase in clean power .
china has placed the industrial development of green technologies at the top of its agenda .
ethiopia is seeking to move to lower- carbon farming .
brazil has significantly reduced the rate of deforestation in the amazon .
some major businesses are providing powerful examples of what is possible .
unil ever has committed to the sustainable sourcing of agricultural and forest products .
co ca - col a is phasing out all use of climate- polluting hydro flu or oc ar b ons .
the retail giant wal-mart is driving emissions reduction throughout its supply chain .
meanwhile , the world bank and the european investment bank have stopped lending to high- emission coal plants .
yet genuine questions remain about how fast economies should move on to a low-carbon path , and the most effective way to do so .
any structural transformation involves costs , trade-offs , and uncertainties , and it is vital that we understand these properly .
powerful interests will , of course , oppose any low-carbon transition , dismissing and often drowning out those who stand to benefit .
that makes it even more important to clarify the choices .
as science makes clear how imperative the climate question is , it is time for economists and policymakers to explain how it can be answered .
the mou se cl ick that ro ared
cambridge – until recently , cyber security has primarily interested computer ge e ks and clo ak -and- d agg er types .
the internet ’ s creators , part of a small , en closed community , were very comfortable with an open system in which security was not a primary concern .
but , with some three billion or so users on the web nowadays , that very openness has become a serious vulnerability ; indeed , it is endangering the vast economic opportunities that the internet has opened for the world .
a “ cyber attack ” can take any number of forms , including simple prob es , de fac ement of web sites , den i al- of- service attacks , espionage , and destruction of data .
and the term “ cyber war , ” though best defined as any hostile action in cyberspace that amp lifies or is equivalent to major physical violence , remains equally prote an , reflecting definitions of “ war ” that range from armed conflict to any concerted effort to solve a problem ( for example , “ war on poverty ” ) .
cyber war and cyber espionage are largely associated with states , while cyber crime and cyber terrorism are mostly associated with non-state actors .
the highest costs currently stem from espionage and crime ; but , over the next decade or so , cyber war and cyber terrorism may become greater threats than they are today .
moreover , as alliances and tactics evolve , the categories may increasingly overlap .
terrorists might buy mal ware from criminals , and governments might find it useful to hide behind both .
some people argue that deterrence does not work in cyberspace , owing to the difficulties of attribu tion .
but that is facile : inadequate attribu tion affects inter- state deterrence as well , yet it still operates .
even when the source of an attack can be successfully disguised under a “ false flag , ” governments may find themselves sufficiently en mes hed in sym metr ically interdependent relationships such that a major attack would be counterproductive .
china , for example , would lose from an attack that severely damaged the american economy , and vice versa .
an unknown att acker may also be deterred by cyber- security measures .
if fire walls are strong , or redund ancy and resilience allow quick recovery , or the prospect of a self- enforcing response ( “ an electric fence ” ) seems possible , an attack becomes less attractive .
while accurate attribu tion of the ultimate source of a cyber attack is sometimes difficult , the determination does not have to be air tight .
to the extent that false flags are imperfect and rumors of the source of an attack are widely deemed credible ( though not legally prob ative ) , reputational damage to an att acker ’ s soft power may contribute to deterrence .
finally , a reputation for offensive capability and a declared policy that keeps open the means of retaliation can help to reinforce deterrence .
of course , non-state actors are harder to deter , so improved defenses such as pre-emp tion and human intelligence become important in such cases .
but , among states , even nuclear deterrence was more complex than it first looked , and that is doub ly true of deterrence in the cyber domain .
given its global nature , the internet requires a degree of international cooperation to be able to function .
some people call for the cyber equivalent of formal arms-control treaties .
but differences in cultural norms and the difficulty of verification would make such treaties hard to negotiate or implement .
at the same time , it is important to pursue international efforts to develop rules of the road that can limit conflict .
russia and china have sought to establish a treaty establishing broad international oversight of the internet and “ information security , ” which would prohibit deception and embe dding malicious code or circu it ry that could be activ ated in the event of war .
but the us has argued that arms-control measures banning offensive capabilities could weaken defenses against attacks and would be impossible to verify or enforce .
likewise , in terms of political values , the us has resisted agreements that could legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship of the internet – for example , by the “ great firewall of china . ”
moreover , cultural differences impede any broad agreements on regulating online content .
nonetheless , it may be possible to identify behaviors like cyber crime that are illegal in many domestic jurisdictions .
trying to limit all intru sions would be impossible , but one could start with cyber crime and cyber terrorism involving non-state parties .
here , major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on for ens ics and controls .
the transnational cyber domain poses new questions about the meaning of national security .
some of the most important responses must be national and unilateral , focused on hygiene , redund ancy , and resilience .
it is likely , however , that major governments will soon discover that the insecurity created by non-state cyber actors will require closer cooperation among governments .
a practical agenda for revolutionary times
oxford – as the world ’ s financial leaders gather for the international monetary fund and world bank spring meetings , many working people around the world are demanding radical change , because they sense that their voices are not being heard .
those who are supposed to represent them should not ignore this anger and frustration any longer .
according to the 2017 ed el man trust barometer , the public ’ s confidence in the status quo has collapsed worldwide , owing to widely held concerns about globalization , innovation , immigration , the erosion of social values , and corruption .
at the same time , the response from elites who regard themselves as the guardians of economic growth has sometimes made matters worse .
if they think they can all ay public concerns simply by explaining the benefits of the current global economic system and t wea king policies to compensate those left behind , they are in for a ru de awakening .
earlier this month , the imf , world bank , and world trade organization published a joint report ext oll ing the benefits of trade as a driver of productivity growth , competition , and consumer choice .
the report ’ s argument in favor of free trade is not new , nor is its recommendation that “ active labor-market policies ” be used to cushion the blow of lost jobs and livelihoods .
what is new is that repeating these claims , without also addressing people ’ s deeper concerns , can now do more harm than good .
global public opinion has changed dramatically in recent years .
a majority of people worldwide – and up to 72 % of people in france and italy – now believe that the system has failed them .
moreover , only 29 % of people across 28 countries now trust government leaders , while three-quarters of those surveyed say they trust reformers who would upend the status quo .
these findings suggest that those defending free trade have lost credibility with the people they hope to persuade .
world leaders need to recognize that today ’ s populist revolts are being fueled by a sense of lost dignity – a sentiment that does not factor into most policymakers ’ prescription for economic growth and compens atory payments .
working-class voters have l ashed out because they feel not just economically abandoned , but also socially disd ained and culturally marginalized .
their vote is the only means they have left to hit back at the establishment .
to address the public ’ s concerns requires a three- part agenda .
the first order of business should be to reach out to those who feel voic eless and un represented .
during the us presidential campaign , donald trump tapped into this sentiment when he vowed to punish any company that moves jobs to china or mexico .
the fact that it took a populist plutocr at to do it underscores the extent to which the american labor movement has been extingu ished .
political parties that originally emerged from the labor movement have long since shifted to the “ center . ”
they now accept political contributions from big business , and have accordingly adopting the language of common prosperity and “ consensus politics , ” leaving the many working people who do not share in that prosperity and consensus feeling disregarded and displaced .
second , the quality of work , and the status that it conf ers , must be improved .
in wealthy countries , precarious , poorly paid , and even dangerous forms of employment are becoming increasingly common .
a recent bloomberg business week story describes how temporary workers at au to- parts factories in al ab ama are paid just $ 7. 25 per hour , and must work in hazardous conditions with no safety training .
in 2010 , these workers suffered work injuries at a 50 % higher rate than uni on ized au to- parts workers elsewhere .
as the oecd has shown , “ non- standard ” work is proliferating globally .
this trend is contributing to deteriorating working conditions , making workers feel increasingly helpl ess and vulnerable .
reversing it will require robust standards to ensure workplace safety , fair pay , and the right to enter into collec tive- bargaining arrangements .
governments will have to intervene to set these standards , as they did during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries to improve abysm al conditions in factories .
otherwise , businesses will not be able to behave dec ently , for fear of being undercut by un scrup ulous competitors .
finally , more opportunities must be created for the next generation – and not just economic opportunities .
since the 2008 financial crisis , many governments have reduced their investments in health , education , housing , and other forms of human capital .
many have also cut support for the unemployed , homeless , or indebted .
as a result , those who have fallen behind are deprived not just of resources , but , more important , the chance to pursue their aspirations .
as the imf , world bank , and wto show in their report , free trade and globalization have certainly increased the size of the overall economic pie .
in theory , this should have expanded governments ’ capacity to compensate those left behind and create the conditions for them to get ahead .
in fact , the opposite has happened , owing to government cutbacks since 2008 .
the establishment ’ s agenda has been failing for too long .
and as elites continue to proclaim the benefits of free trade and globalization , they are merely widening the ch asm of popular mistrust .
over the past year , that mistrust has bo iled over in many countries , with voters in one election after another rejecting the status quo .
piecemeal cur bs on globalization will not be enough to quell the revolt .
instead , world leaders must leave their echo chamber , take ordinary people ’ s concerns seriously , diversify their views , and think about why so many have lost faith in the system .
the development costs of hom ophobia
london – as a gay man living in nigeria , my biggest challenge was choosing between my sexuality and my job .
in 2004 , i was at the start of my acting career .
i had just left university , and i was featured in “ ros es and thor ns , ” a prim e- time so ap oper a on gal ax y television , one of nigeria ’ s most popular tv stations . i was playing the role of “ richard , ” the only son of a rich family who was having an affair with the house ma id .
whis pers were making the rounds about my private life , and i decided it was time to come out .
almost immediately , my character was eliminated .
and when my job disappeared , so did my financial security .
like many gay men and les bi ans in africa , my choice was between economic freedom and mental imprisonment .
this year , nigeria and uganda put in place draconian anti- gay laws , spar king a worldwide debate about human rights .
this debate has also started at the world bank , whose president , jim y ong kim , recently declared that “ institutionalized discrimination is bad for people and for societies . ”
kim ’ s statement has invited criticism and controversy .
often , as in uganda and nigeria , we hear the claim that opposition to official discrimination against gay , les b ian , bis ex ual , and trans gender ( lgbt ) people is simply a way to impose “ western ” values on africa .
but this assumes that homosexuality is “ un- african . ”
and , despite the absence of evidence that any given country or continent does not have lgbt people ( and ample evidence to the contrary ) , it is an assumption that an increasing number of african leaders have embraced .
in 2006 , president ol us eg un ob as an jo , then nigeria ’ s president , was among the first to do so .
uganda ’ s president y ow er i mus ev eni followed suit when signing the anti- gay bill into law in 2014 .
other leaders , from gamb ia ’ s president y ah ya jam me h to zimbabwe ’ s robert mugabe , have spoken in the same ve in .
these official attitudes have caused significant suffering for africa ’ s g ays and les bi ans .
indeed , the price of hom ophobia for gay people in many african countries is painfully clear : legal penalties , social ostr ac ism , and mob justice .
but here is what africa ’ s anti- gay leaders miss : legal protections are not only a human-rights issue , but also an economic issue .
kim is exactly right , and research has started measuring the economic costs of hom ophobia by exploring links between anti- gay sentiment and poverty in countries where laws and social attitudes pros cr ibe sam e- sex relationships .
m . v . lee bad ge tt , an economist at the university of massachus ett s- am her st , presented the initial findings of a study of the economic implications of hom ophobia in india at a world bank meeting in march 2014 .
bad ge tt estimated that the indian economy may have lost up to $ 2 3.1 billion in 2012 in direct health costs alone , owing to depression , suicide , and hiv treatment disparities caused by anti- gay stigma and discrimination .
in addition to such concrete costs , being gay can bring violence , job loss , family rejection , harassment in schools , and pressure to marry .
as a result , many gay people have less education , lower productivity , lower earnings , poorer health , and a shorter life expectancy .
in nigeria , i started the independent project for equal rights ( ti ers ) in 2005 to respond to the increasing number of people who were losing their jobs because of suspicions about their sexuality .
during our first year , we provided support for dozens of people .
one young man , “ ol um ide , ” was given temporary housing after his family k icked him out for being gay .
another , “ u che , ” was fired from his job as a che f after his sexuality was revealed .
ti ers helped him with accommodation and capital to set up a cat ering business .
though almost 10 years have passed , it is still not safe to use their real names .
across africa , the economic costs of discrimination are increasing , in line with growing pressure on employers , land lords , health-care providers , educational institutions , and others to exclude lgbt people .
today , the world bank and other development agencies are mapping out the global development priorities that will follow the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which officially end in 2015 and included specific targets for promoting gender equality and empowering women as a strategy for economic growth .
looking ahead , the bank should take the same approach to lgbt rights and make legal protections for sexual orientation and gender identity a condition for countries receiving loans .
by pursuing similar protections for lgbt people , international investment and aid can improve economic performance and strengthen respect for basic human rights .
the world bank , always wary of entang ling itself in “ political ” questions , emphasizes that it is not a global human-rights enfor cer .
but it also increasingly recognizes its own role as a facilit ator in helping bank members realize their human-rights obligations .
lgbt rights should be a test case .
aid to governments that permit specific social groups to be ostr ac ized can carry very real economic costs .
as new loans are considered , steps should be taken to ensure that the benefits are as inclusive as possible .
if the bank – which currently lends nigeria almost $ 5.5 billion and expects to commit an additional $ 2 billion in each of the next four years – moved in this direction , other funders might follow .
africa ’ s lgbt people desperately need such powerful allies in their struggle for human and economic rights .
a democratic burma ?
tokyo – historic transformations often happen when least expected .
mikhail gorbachev ’ s liberalizing policies of gl as n ost and perestroika in the soviet union emerged at one of the cold war ’ s dark est hours , with us president ronald reagan pushing for strategic missile defense and the two sides fighting proxy wars in afghanistan and elsewhere .
deng xiaoping ’ s economic opening followed china ’ s bloody – and failed – invasion of vietnam in 1978 .
and south africa ’ s last apartheid leader , f. w. de k l er k , was initially perceived as just another apolog ist for the system – hardly the man to free nelson mandela and oversee the end of white minority rule .
now the world is suddenly asking whether burma ( myanmar ) , after six decades of military dictatorship , has embarked on a genuine political transition that could end the country ’ s pariah status .
is burma , like south africa under de k l er k , truly poised to emerge from a half-century of self- imposed isolation ?
and can aung san suu kyi , the heroic opposition leader , and the in sein , burma ’ s new president , engineer a political transition as skill fully and peacefully as mandela and de k l er k did for south africa in the early 1990 ’ s ?
despite her two decades of house arrest and isolation , suu kyi possesses two of the gifts that enabled mandela to carry out his great task : a reassuring ser en ity and an utter lack of v indic tiveness .
as burma ’ s authorities test reform , these gifts , together with her negotiating skills and , most of all , her vast moral authority , will be tested as never before .
moreover , unlike mandela during his 2 7 -year imprisonment , suu kyi has had her hopes raised – and dashed – before .
in the mid-1990 ’ s , and again in 200 2- 2003 , reconciliation between suu kyi ’ s national league for democracy ( n ld ) and the military junta seemed to be in the off ing .
on both occasions , however , the regime ’ s hardliners gained the upper hand , crushing prospects for reform .
yet suu kyi , and much of the burmese opposition , is beginning to admit that today ’ s political liberalization might be the real thing .
because burma ’ s generals say almost nothing in public , it is difficult to fa th om why they allowed elections that elevated the in sein to power , or to explain their willingness to embrace dialogue with the long- suppressed opposition .
recent events suggest one possible explanation : burma ’ s rulers have grown wary of china ’ s almost smo thering embrace – a result of the country ’ s international isolation .
indeed , public protests against china ’ s commercial exploitation of burma ’ s natural resources became so widespread that the government called a halt to construction by chinese investors on the huge and environmentally damaging my it s one dam on the ir raw add y river .
the in sein ’ s decision to halt the project is clearly an important policy shift .
it is also a signal to the outside world that burma ’ s new government may be much more willing than any of its predecessors to heed both public pressure and international opinion , both of which vehem ently opposed the dam ’ s construction .
almost simultaneously , the in sein offered even stronger signals that his was a very different burmese administration : he freed political prisoners and invited suu kyi for direct talks with him .
indeed , suu kyi now enjoys far greater freedom of movement than she has at any time since she received the nobel peace prize 20 years ago , and the n ld recently announced that it will field candidates in the forthcoming by- elections to the country ’ s newly established parliament .
for both suu kyi and the in sein , every step from now on will be delicate , to be calibrated with the same care and deliberation that mandela and de k l er k used in brid ging their differences and leading their country out of isolation .
but the international community , too , must act with great care .
while the in sein would undoubtedly wish to see the myriad economic and political sanctions imposed on burma quickly lifted , it is too soon for a general easing of such measures .
but the outside world should demonstrate that every clear move toward greater political openness will merit more international political and economic engagement .
the japan investment bank ’ s decision to invest in port development in burma – essential if the economy , too , is to be opened – is one positive sign that the world will keep pace with the in sein step for step .
and us president barack obama ’ s decision to send secretary of state hillary clinton to burma to meet the in sein is another clear sign that the world is ready to end the country ’ s isolation .
closer to home , asean ’ s recent decision to give burma a chance to chair the organization in 2014 underscores its neighbors ’ desire for the country ’ s full participation in asia ’ s growing prosperity .
no one should rush to judgment yet , but the in sein ’ s decisions , at least so far , are beginning to resemble those of south africa ’ s de k l er k when he initiated his country ’ s reform process .
fortunately , burma already has in aung san suu kyi its very own nelson mandela .
a devaluation option for southern europe
cambridge – this year is likely to mark a ma ke- or- break or deal for the euro .
the eurozone ’ s survival demands a credible solution to its long- running sovereign-debt crisis , which in turn requires addressing the two macroeconomic imbalances – external and fiscal – which are at the heart of that crisis .
the crisis has exposed the deep disparities in competitiveness that have developed within the eurozone .
from 1996 to 2010 , unit labor costs in germany increased by just 8 % , and by 13 % in france . compare that to 24 % in portugal , 35 % in spain , 37 % in italy , and a whopping 59 % in greece .
the result has been large trade imbalances between eurozone countries , a problem compounded by large fiscal deficits and high levels of public debt in southern europe ( and france ) – much of it owed to foreign creditors .
does addressing these imbalances require breaking up the eurozone ?
suppose , for example , that portugal were to leave and re- introduce the escu do . the ensuing exchange-rate devaluation would immediately lower the price of portugal ’ s exports , raise its import prices , stimulate the economy , and bring about much-needed growth .
but a euro exit would be a messy affair . the resulting turmoil could very well trump any short-term gains in competitiveness from devaluation .
there is a remarkably simple alternative that does not require southern europe ’ s troubled economies to abandon the euro and devalue their exchange rates .
it involves increasing the value-added tax while cutting payroll taxes .
our recent research demonstrates that such a “ fiscal devaluation ” has very similar effects on the economy in terms of its impact on gdp , consumption , employment , and inflation .
a currency devaluation works by making imports more costly and exports cheaper . a v at / pay rol l- tax swap would do exactly the same thing .
an increase in vat raises the price of imported goods , as foreign firms face a higher tax .
to ensure that domestic firms do not have an incentive to raise prices , an increase in vat needs to be accompanied by a cut in payroll taxes .
moreover , since exports are exempt from vat , the price of domestic exports will fall .
the desired competitiveness effects of exchange-rate devaluation can thus be had while staying in the euro .
this policy can also help on the fiscal front .
as is true of an exchange-rate devaluation , the positive impact on growth of an increase in competitiveness can strengthen the fiscal position by raising tax revenues .
moreover , an important advantage of fiscal devaluations is that they generate additional revenues in proportion to the country ’ s trade deficit .
like exchange-rate devaluations , fiscal devaluations create winners and losers .
both act as a wealth levy : inflation means that bondholders suffer a real loss in proportion to their wealth and the size of the devaluation .
if taxes on capital are not adjusted , holders of domestic stocks suffer a comparable loss .
by contrast , many transfers , such as unemployment benefits , health benefits , and public pensions , are indexed to inflation , and thus maintain their real value .
the same is true of minimum wages .
these distribu tive effects play an important role in the politics of exchange-rate devaluations , and most of these effects appear in fiscal devaluations as well .
fiscal devaluations already have some advocates .
indeed , french president nicolas sarkozy ’ s government just announced one .
and concerns that a fiscal devaluation will conflict with euro rules can be met by simply pointing out that germany ’ s government carried one out in 2007 , though by another name , when it raised vat from 16 % to 19 % and cut employers ’ contribution to social insurance , from 6.5 % to 4.2 % .
in short , there are simple fiscal alternatives to exchange-rate devaluation that can address southern europe ’ s short-term competitiveness problems .
to be sure , feasible fiscal devaluations would be limited in size .
but , together with debt restructuring , accommodative monetary policy , liquidity support from the european central bank , and much- required structural reforms , they can help to put these troubled economies on a sound footing without a euro breakup or a major auster ity- induced recession .
a dissident in china
tokyo – 2009 was a good year for china . the chinese economy still ro ared ahead in the midst of a worldwide recession .
american president barack obama visited china , more in the spirit of a suppl ic ant to an imperial court than the leader of the world ’ s greatest superpower . even the copenhagen summit on climate change ended just the way china wanted : failure in its attempt to commit china , or any other industrial nation , to making significant cuts in carbon emissions , with the united states getting the blame .
the chinese government , under the communist party , has every reason to feel confident .
so why did a gent le former literature professor named liu xiaobo have to be sentenced to 11 years in prison , just because he publicly advocated freedom of expression and an end to one-party rule ?
liu was co- author in 2008 of a petition , charter 0 8 , signed by thousands of chinese , calling for basic rights to be respected .
liu is not a violent rebel . his opinions , in articles published on the internet , are entirely peaceful .
yet he was jailed for “ inciting sub version of state power . ”
the notion that liu might be capable of subver ting the immense power of the communist party of china is pat ently absurd .
and yet the authorities clearly believe that they had to make an example of him , to prevent others from expressing similar views .
why does a regime that appears to be so secure consider mere opinions , or even peaceful pe ti tions , so dangerous ?
perhaps because the regime does not feel as secure as it looks .
without legitimacy , no government can rule with any sense of confidence . there are many ways to legitimize political arrangements .
hereditary monarchy , often backed by divine authority , has worked in the past . and some modern autocrats , such as robert mugabe , have been bolstered by their credentials as national freedom fighters .
china has changed a great deal in the last century , but it has remained the same in one respect : it is still ruled by a religious concept of politics .
legitimacy is not based on the give and take , the necessary compromises , and the whe eling and dealing that form the basis of an economic concept of politics such as that which underpins liberal democracy .
instead , the foundation of religious politics is a shared belief , imposed from above , in ideological orthodoxy .
the ideal of the confucian state is “ harmony . ”
if all people con form to a particular set of beliefs , including moral codes of behavior , conflicts will disappear .
the ruled , in this ideal system , will naturally obe y their rulers , just as sons obe y their fathers .
after the various revolutions in the early decades of the twentieth century , confucianism was replaced by a chinese version of communism .
marxism appealed to chinese intellectuals , because it was book ish , introduced a modern moral orthodoxy , and was based , like confucianism , on a promise of perfect harmony . ultimately , in the communist ut opia , conflicts of interests would mel t away .
chairman mao ’ s rule combined elements of the chinese imperial system with communist totalitarianism .
this orthodoxy , however , was also destined to fade away .
few chinese , even in the top ranks of the communist party , are convinced marx ists anymore .
this left an ideological vacuum , swiftly filled in the 1980 ’ s by greed , cynicism , and corruption .
out of this crisis came the demonstrations all over china , collectively known as “ tiananmen . ”
liu xiaobo was an active spokes man in 1989 for the student protests against official corruption and in favor of greater freedom .
soon after the bloody crackdown on tiananmen , a new orthodoxy replaced chinese marxism : chinese nationalism .
only one-party rule would guarantee the continuing rise of china and put an end to centuries of national humiliation .
the communist party represented china ’ s destiny as a great power . to doubt this was not just mistaken , but un patriotic , even “ anti- chinese . ”
from this perspective , liu xiaobo ’ s critical views were indeed subver sive .
they cast doubt on the official orthodoxy , and thus on the legitimacy of the state .
to wonder , as many have , why the chinese regime refused to negotiate with the students in 1989 – or to find some accommodation with its critics today – is to mis understand the nature of religious politics .
negotiation , compromise , and accommodation are the marks of economic politics , where every deal has its price . by contrast , those who rule according to a shared belief can not afford to negotiate , for that would undermine the belief itself .
this is not to say that the economic concept of politics is utterly strange to the chinese – or , for that matter , that the religious notion of politics is unknown in the democratic west .
but the insistence on orthodoxy is still sufficiently strong in china to remain the default defense against political critics .
these things can change .
other confucian societies , such as south korea , taiwan , and japan , now have thriving liberal democracies , and there is no reason to believe that such a transition is impossible in china .
but external pressure is unlikely to bring it about .
many non- chinese , including me , have signed a letter of protest against the j ailing of liu xiaobo .
one hopes that this will lend comfort to him , and give a moral boost to chinese who share his views . but it is unlikely to im press those who believe in the current orthodoxy of chinese nationalism .
until china is released from the grip of religious politics , liu ’ s ideals are unlikely to take root .
this does not bode well for china , or , indeed , for the rest of the world .
a drug war on au to- pilot
the hague – the war in afghanistan , now approaching its tenth year , may seem to many to have no end in sight , but latin america has endured an even longer fight , one that has recently become much more bloody : the “ war ” against drug trafficking .
the new strategy that us secretary of state hillary clinton has been promoting to staunch the upward trend of nar co- traffic king- related murders – which leaked mexican government reports put at more than 2 2,000 since late 2006 – is to build “ stronger , more resilient communities . ”
ci ud ad ju á re z , a spraw ling mexican border town that is now the homic ide capital of the world , would have to be high on the list .
four bridges and in num erable tun n els and dra in age can als connect ci ud ad ju á re z and el pas o , texas .
rival cartels spar ring for control of a pl az a , the name given to any trafficking route , but cher each other and the security forces .
there is apparently no shortage of young , unemployed men willing to join the carnage .
addressing the deep-seated social and economic problems of a city like ju á re z , however , is a lot harder than flooding its streets with 8,000 soldiers carrying assault ri fl es .
mexican president felipe calderón has , in this respect , remained faithful to the script written in previous the aters in the drug war , whether in bolivia , colombia , or peru , where governments have used military force and ex tradition to plac ate the us and punish those with the least voice and influence .
but the language used by the obama administration to describe the violence and state corruption that sn akes from the and es to the us border is starting to capture new thinking on narcotics .
three former latin american presidents , mexico ’ s second richest man , ricardo sal in as , and the supreme court of argentina , among others , have criticized the war on drugs as a manifest failure that has lowered street prices , fueled production , and undermined weak states .
more strikingly , both bolivia and ecuador are governed by presidents who suffered directly from the collateral in sensitivities of the war on drugs .
bolivia ’ s evo morales rose to prominence as leader of the country ’ s co ca growers during a brutal campaign to wi pe out their crops , the so-called dignity plan .
ecu ador an president ra fa el correa ’ s father was jailed for smuggling drugs to the us when the future leader was five years old .
these leaders ’ profound ambival ence toward the goal of a world free of illegal drugs is shared by the european union , where restrictions on narcotics consumption have sl ack ened over the past decade .
the past three us presidents , furthermore , have all admitted to consuming – to one extent or another – illegal psycho active substances , while seven million americans , according to the united nations , are regular cocaine users .
but the inertia of a bureaucratic drug- enforcement super structure ( worth approximately $ 40 billion each in the us and the eu ) , sustained by a deep-seated fear of the “ threat ” posed by drugs and cartels , appears to push policy repeatedly towards the familiar option of repressive au to- pilot .
for example , us support for mexico ’ s campaign against the cartels looks set in stone , with congress apparently ready to provide $ 300 million for another year of military and security upgrading .
in colombia , seven new joint military installations are planned , and support for us private contractors who have cor nered the market in crop fum ig ation presumably will not be interrupted .
nevertheless , as the flaws in the four- decade- old edi f ice of counter- narcotics become more visible , it is increasingly difficult to regard the risks of drug use as being greater than the damage done by repression .
prohibition hikes the mar k -up on prices – an astounding 15,000 % in the case of cocaine traveling to europe from an dean processing facilities .
while the war on drugs focuses on bringing down cartels and their king p ins , it per vers ely aids the health of their markets , which ne st le within legitimate trade flows and respond to price incentives .
interviewed by the mexican magazine proc es o this year , the second- in- command of the giant sin alo a cartel , is ma el zamb ada , made the point clearly : “ the nar co problem involves millions of people .
how do you control it ?
the cap os can be jailed , killed , or ex trad ited , but their re plac ements are already w and ering around . ”
the emergence of latin america ’ s powerful drug ma fi as can not be traced to the radical evil of certain individuals .
these people emerged under conditions created in deeply inequ itable societies by a mis applied , inconsistent , and bureaucratic war .
indeed , the fur ies of the z et as in mexico originate in the counter- insurgency training provided in the 1990 ’ s to a select group of speci al- forces soldiers , who later deser ted .
the z et as ’ star recruits in recent years have come from the guatem alan military ’ s special forces , whose infamous induc tion technique involved b iting off the head of a live chicken .
meanwhile , in jam a ica and across the rural out posts of central america , drug lords have become bene factors and heroes to the poor .
it is time for serious re consideration of the status and regulation of illegal drugs , pointing to selective legalization , as well as re classi fication of the market as a public-health , rather than a criminal , concern .
a global `` new deal '' ?
athens – the international monetary fund ’ s bel ated admission that it significantly underestimated the damage that austerity would do to european union growth rates highlights the self-defeating character of “ orthodox ” recip es to address the causes of the debt crisis that followed the financial crash of 2008-2009 .
conventional theory suggests that a single country ( or group of countries ) consolidating its finances can expect lower interest rates , a weaker currency , and an improved trade position .
but , because this can not happen for all major economies simultaneously – one country ’ s ( or group of countries ’ ) austerity implies less demand for other countries ’ products – such policies eventually lead to beggar-thy-neighbor situations .
indeed , it was this dynamic – against which john maynard keynes fought – that made the great depression of the 1930 ’ s so grim .
today ’ s problems are compounded by a lack of sufficient private demand – particularly household consumption – in the advanced economies to compensate for demand losses stemming from austerity .
during the last two decades , consumption drove these countries ’ economic growth , reaching historically high gdp shares .
moreover , major advanced economies , such as the united states , germany , and japan , face longer-term fiscal problems in the form of aging populations or over size welfare states , limiting their capacity to contribute to demand management .
recent moves to ease monetary policy have been a step in the right direction ; but , so far , they have not proved to be a game changer .
for domestic demand to act as an engine of growth , policies should shift resources from investment to consumption .
while the magn itu des involved are huge , they must be attained if an extended period of low growth , high unemployment , and declining living standards among the world ’ s poorest is to be avoided .
international economic policy coordination should be significantly strengthened in order to deal effectively with changes on such a scale .
start with europe .
it is by now pat ently obvious that austerity and domestic reforms are not enough to pull the eurozone ’ s periphery out of deep recession .
growing awareness of the failure of current policies is causing social discontent , civil disorder , and political instability , with the recently concluded italian elections and the growing popular resistance to greek reform efforts serving as a bel l we ther .
returning the eurozone ’ s peripheral economies to the path of growth requires more than structural reforms and fiscal consolidation .
it also requires a substantial reform of the monetary union ’ s system of economic governance , aimed at restoring financial stability and lowering borrowing costs , together with a boost in external demand in order to compensate for the effects of austerity .
reforming governance implies significant progress toward economic unification : centr alizing european debt through eurobonds , mobilizing sufficient rescue funds , allowing the european central bank to intervene in the primary bond markets , and establishing both a fiscal and a banking union .
this is a tall order , in view of the reluctance of most eu member states to cede compet ences to european institutions .
but europe should move more decisively in this direction .
otherwise , speculation on member states ’ national debt will persist , keeping borrowing costs at levels that are inconsistent with the conditions required to sustain economic recovery .
concerning external demand , intra- european help in the form of refl ationary policies in stronger economies is unlikely to prove sufficient , owing primarily to the fiscal and political conditions prevailing in germany .
implementing a marshall plan - type initiative by mobilizing eu budget resources and additional lending by the european investment bank to finance investments in weaker countries could be an alternative , but it lacks political support .
on a global scale , neither the us nor japan is in a position to provide significant external stimulus .
only the emerging and developing economies of asia could effectively contribute to lifting global demand through a coordinated effort aimed at boosting domestic consumption , which , in turn , would stimulate additional investment .
recent imf experience suggests that , through appropriate coordination , private funds could be mobilized for big private- public partnership projects linking demand expansion with infrastructure investment .
in other words , a global “ new deal ” – combining policies designed to achieve an orderly realignment of consumption and investment worldwide – seems to be required .
the advanced economies should promote productivity-enhancing structural reforms with renewed vigor .
the eurozone should solidi fy its currency union .
for such a deal to become possible , certain preconditions must be met .
first , international policy coordination by the g-20 must be tightened by creating a permanent secretariat to make policy proposals and recommendations concerning macroeconomic and financial developments .
the secretariat should actively cooperate with the imf to benefit from its analysis , notably regarding exchange rates .
second , global financial reform must proceed at a faster pace .
the financial sector requires tougher regulation , strengthened supervision , and internationally consistent resolution mechanisms to address the problems posed by very large , global institutions that are considered too big ( or too complex ) to fail .
such reform is essential if the international financial system is to medi ate the sizeable resource transfers that will underpin the required changes in the structure of global demand .
finally , a new trade pact – possibly , but not necessarily , within the doha round – is needed to ensure the major trading powers ’ access to foreign markets .
this is critically important for inspiring confidence in asian countries , which might be persuaded to favor domestic , as opposed to external , sources of demand .
moreover , trade liberalization will also increase consumer confidence worldwide .
the time is right for a new global settlement that targets growth , addresses crisis conditions in certain parts of the world , and re balances the global economy to set it back on a path of strong and steady growth .
the other financial crisis
newport beach – two variants of financial crisis continue to wreak havoc on western economies , fueling joblessness and poverty : the one that we read about regularly in newspapers , involving governments around the world ; and a less visible one at the level of small and medium-size businesses and households .
until both are addressed properly , the west will remain burdened by sluggish growth , persistently high unemployment , and excessive income and wealth inequality .
the sovereign-debt crisis is well known .
in order to avert a likely depression , governments around the world engaged in fiscal and monetary stimulus in the midst of the global financial crisis .
they succeeded in offsetting nasty economic dis locations caused by private-sector deleveraging , but at the cost of enc um bering their fiscal balances and their central banks ’ balance sheets .
while sovereign credit quality has deteriorated virtually across the board , and will most probably continue to do so , the implications for individual countries vary .
some western countries – such as greece – had fragile government accounts from the outset and tipped quickly into persistent crisis mode .
there they remain , still failing to provide citizens with a light at the end of what already has been a long tun nel .
other countries had been fiscally responsible , but were overwhelmed by the liabilities that they had assumed from others ( for example , ireland ’ s irresponsible banks san k their budget ) .
still others , including the united states , faced no immediate threat but failed to make progress on longer-term issues . a few , like germany , had built deep economic and financial resilience through years of fiscal discipline and structural reforms .
it is not surprising that policy approaches have also varied .
indeed , they have shared only one , albeit crucial ( and disappointing ) feature : the inability to rely on rapid growth as the “ saf est ” way to deleverage an over- indebted economy .
greece essentially defaulted on some obligations .
ireland opted for austerity and reforms , as has the united kingdom .
the us is gradually transferring resources from creditors to debtors through financial repression .
and germany is slowly acquies cing to a prudent relative expansion in domestic demand .
so much for the sovereign-debt crisis , which , given its national , regional , and global impact , has been particularly well covered .
after all , sovereigns are called that because they have the power to impose taxes , regulations , and , at the extreme , confis cation .
i know of very few western countries where small and medium-size companies , as well as middle-income households and those of more limited means , have not experienced a significant decline in their access to credit – not just new financing , but also the ability to roll over old credit lines and loans .
the immediate causes are well known .
they range from subdued bank lending to unusually high risk aversion , and from discredited credit vehicles to the withdrawal of some institutions from credit intermediation altogether .
such credit constraints are one reason why unemployment rates continue to rise in so many countries – often from already alarming levels , such as 25 % in greece and spain ( where youth unemployment is above 50 % ) – and why unemployment remains unusually high in countries like the us ( albeit it at a much lower level ) .
this is not just a matter of lost capabilities and rising poverty ; persistently high unemployment also leads to social unrest , erosion of trust in political leaders and institutions , and the mounting risk of a lost generation .
indeed , unemployment data in many advanced countries are dominated by long-term joblessness ( usually defined as six months or more ) .
skill erosion becomes a problem for those with prior work experience , while unsuccessful first- time entrants into the labor force are not just unemployed , but risk becoming un employ able .
governments are doing too little to address the private credit debacle .
arguably , they must first sort out the sovereign side of the crisis ; but it is not clear that most officials even have a comprehensive plan .
policy asymmetry is greatest for the countries most acutely affected by the sovereign-debt crisis .
there , the private sector has essentially been left to fend for itself ; and most households and companies are struggling , thus fueling continued economic implosion .
other countries appear to have adopted a “ field of dreams ” – also known as “ build it and they will come ” – approach to private credit markets , in the us , for example , artificially low interest rates for home mortgages , resulting from the federal reserve ’ s policy activism , are supposed to kick-start prudent financing .
the european central bank is taking a similarly indirect approach .
in both places , other policymaking entities , with much better tools at their disposal , appear either unwilling or unable to play their part .
as such , action by central banks will repeatedly fail to gain sufficient traction .
in fact , only the uk is visibly opting for a more coordinated and direct way to counter the persistent shortfalls stemming from the private part of the credit crisis .
there , the “ funding for lending scheme , ” jointly designed by the bank of england and the treasury , seeks “ to boost the incentive for banks and building societies to lend to uk households and non-financial companies , ” while holding them accountable for proper behavior .
the uk example is important ; but , given the scope and scale of the challenges , the proposal is a relatively modest one .
the program may stimulate some productive credit intermediation , but it will not make a significant dent in what will remain one of the major obstacles to robust economic recovery .
proper access to credit for productive segments is an integral part of a well-functioning economy .
without it , growth fal ters , job creation is insufficient , and widening income and wealth inequality undermines the social fabric .
that is why any comprehensive approach to restoring the advanced countries ’ economic and financial vibr ancy must target the proper revival of private credit flows .
toxic politics versus better economics
new york – the relationship between politics and economics is changing .
advanced-country politicians are locked in bizarre , often toxic , conflicts , instead of acting on a growing economic consensus about how to escape a protracted period of low and unequal growth .
this trend must be reversed , before it structurally crip ples the advanced world and swe ep s up the emerging economies , too .
obviously , political infighting is nothing new .
but , until recently , the expectation was that if professional economists achieved a technocratic consensus on a given policy approach , political leaders would listen .
even when more radical political parties attempted to push a different agenda , powerful forces – whether moral su asion from g7 governments , private capital markets , or the conditionality attached to international monetary fund and world bank lending – would almost always ensure that the consensus approach eventually won the day .
the embrace of the washington consensus by multilateral institutions amplified its transmission , helping to drive forward the broader process of economic and financial globalization .
incoming governments – particularly those led by non-traditional movements , which had risen to power on the back of domestic unease and frustration with mainstream parties – sometimes dis agreed with the appropri at eness and relevance of the washington consensus .
but , as brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva demonstrated with his famous policy pivot in 2002 , that consensus tended largely to prevail . and it continued to hold sway as recently as almost two years ago , when greek prime minister alexis tsipras executed an equally notable u- turn .
but after years of unusually sluggish and strikingly non- inclusive growth , the consensus is breaking down .
advanced-country citizens are frustrated with an “ establishment ” – including economic “ experts , ” mainstream political leaders , and dominant multinational companies – which they increasingly blame for their economic travails .
anti-establishment movements and figures have been quick to seize on this frustration , using inflam mat ory and even comb ative rhetoric to win support .
they do not even have to win elections to disrupt the transmission mechanism between economics and politics .
the united kingdom proved that in june , with its brexit vote – a decision that directly defied the broad economic consensus that remaining within the european union was in britain ’ s best interest .
the referendum happened for one reason : in 2013 , then- prime minister david cameron feared that he would be unable to secure sufficiently his conservative party base in the general election that year .
so he pand ered to euroskeptic voters with the promise of a referendum .
the source of cameron ’ s fear ?
the political disruption caused by the uk independence party – an anti-establishment party that ended up winning only one seat in parliament and subsequently found itself lead er less and in turmoil .
now , it seems , the floo dg ates have opened .
at the recent conservative party annual conference , speeches by prime minister theresa may and members of her cabinet revealed an intention to pursue a “ hard brexit , ” thereby dismantling trading arrangements that have served the economy well .
they also included attacks on “ international elites ” and criticism of bank of england policies that were instrumental in stabilizing the british economy in the referendum ’ s immediate aftermath – thus giving may ’ s new government time to formulate a coherent brexit strategy .
several other advanced economies are experiencing analogous political developments .
in germany , a surprisingly strong showing by the far-right alternative fü r deutsch land in recent state elections already appears to be affecting the government ’ s behavior .
in the us , even if donald trump ’ s presidential campaign fails to put a republican back in the white house ( as appears increasingly likely , given that , in the latest twist of this highly unusual campaign , many republican leaders have now ren ounced their party ’ s nominee ) , his candidacy will likely leave a lasting impact on american politics .
if not managed well , italy ’ s constitutional referendum in december – a risky bid by prime minister matteo renzi to consolidate support – could backfire , just like cameron ’ s referendum did , causing political disruption and undermining effective action to address the country ’ s economic challenges .
make no mistake : solid and credible policy options are available .
after years of mediocre economic performance , there is widespread agreement that a shift away from excessive dependence on unconventional monetary policy is needed .
as imf managing director christine lagarde put it , “ central banks can not be the only game in town . ”
and yet they have been .
as i argue in the only game in town , published in january , countries need a more comprehensive policy approach , involving pro-growth structural reforms , more balanced demand management ( including higher fiscal spending on infrastructure ) , and better cross-border policy coordination and architecture .
there is also a need , highlighted by the protracted greek crisis , to address pockets of severe over- indebtedness , which can have crushing impact extending well beyond the directly affected .
the emergence of a new consensus on these points is good news .
but , in the current political environment , translating that consensus into action is likely to happen too slowly , at best .
the risk is that , as bad politics crowds out good economics , popular anger and frustration will rise , making politics even more toxic .
one hopes that enlightened political leadership takes the rein s in time to make the needed mid- course corrections voluntarily , before unambiguous signs of economic and financial crisis force policymakers to scramble to minimize the damage .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is at hand .
in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has headed down just when it was supposed to be going up .
over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was basically unchanged , holding , at just 1.7 % above its year- earlier level .
for a us economy that is widely presumed to be ne aring the h allowed ground of full employment , this comes as a ru de awakening – particularly for the federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target .
halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan .
but , for the defl ation- prone japanese economy , it ’ s a much tougher story .
through april , japan ’ s core cpi was basically flat relative to its year- earlier level , with a similar outcome evident in may for the tokyo metropolitan area .
for the bank of japan ( boj ) , which committed an unprecedented arsenal of unconventional policy weapons to arrest a 19 -year stretch of 16 .5 % deflation lasting from 1994 to 2013 , this is more than just a ru de awakening . it is an embarrassment bordering on defeat .
this story is global in scope .
yes , there are a few notable out li ers – namely , the united kingdom , where currency pressures and one-off holiday distortions are temporarily boosting core inflation to 2.4 % , and malaysia , where the removal of fuel subsidies has boosted headline inflation , yet left the core stable at around 2.5 % .
but they are exceptions in an otherwise infl ation less world .
the international monetary fund ’ s latest forecasts bear this out .
notwithstanding a modest fir ming of global economic growth , inflation in the advanced economies is expected to average slightly less than 2 % in 201 7- 2018 .
the first chapter of this tale was written many years ago , in japan .
from asset bubbles and excess leverage to currency suppression and productivity impa ir ment , japan ’ s experience – with lost decades now stretching to a quarter-century – is testament to all that can go wrong in large and wealthy economies .
but no lesson is more profound than that of a series of policy blunders made by the boj .
not only did reckless monetary accommodation set the stage for japan ’ s demise ; the country ’ s central bank compounded the problem by taking policy rates to the zero bound ( and even lower ) , embracing quantitative easing , and manipulating long-term interest rates in the hopes of reviving the economy .
this has created an unhealthy dependency from which there is no easy exit .
though japan ’ s experience since the early 1990s provides many lessons , the rest of the world has failed mis er ably at he eding them .
volumes have been written , countless sym posi ums have been held , and famous promises have been made by the likes of former us fed chairman ben bernanke never to repeat japan ’ s mistakes .
yet time and again , other major central banks – especially the fed and the european central bank – have been quick to follow , with equally dire consequences .
the inflation surprise of 2017 offers three key insights .
first , the relationship between inflation and economic slack – the so-called phil li ps curve – has broken down .
cour tes y of what the university of geneva ’ s richard bal d win calls the “ second un bund ling ” of globalization , the world is awash in the excess supply of increasingly fragmented global supply chains .
outsourcing via these supply chains dramatically expands the el as tic ity of the global supply curve , fundamentally altering the concept of slack in labor and product markets , as well as the pressure such slack might put on inflation .
second , today ’ s globalization is inherently asymmetric .
for a variety of reasons – han gover s from balance-sheet recessions in japan and the us , fe ar- driven precautionary saving in china , and anemic consumption in productivity- constrained europe – the demand side of most major economies remains severely impaired .
ju x tap os ed against a backdrop of ever- expanding supply , the resulting imbalance is inherently deflationary .
third , central banks are all but powerless to cope with the moving target of what can be called a non- st ationary liquidity trap .
sound familiar ?
the novel twist today is the ever- expanding global supply curve .
that makes today ’ s central banks even more im potent than they were in the 1930s .
this is not an incur able disease .
in a world of hyper- globalization – barring a protectionist relap se led by the america fir sters – treatment needs to be focused on the demand side of the equation .
the most important lesson from the 1930s , as well as from the modern-day japanese experience , is that monetary policy provides no answer for a chronic deficiency of aggregate demand .
addressing it is a task primarily for fiscal authorities . the idea that central banks should consider making a new promise to raise their inflation targets is hardly credible .
in the meantime , fed chair janet yellen is right ( finally ) to push the fed to normalize policy , putting an end to a failed experiment that has long out lived its usefulness .
the danger all along has been that open-ended unconventional monetary easing would fail to achieve traction in the real economy , and would inject excess liquidity into us and global financial markets that could lead to asset bubbles , reckless risk taking , and the next crisis .
moreover , because unconventional easing was a strategy designed for an emergency that no longer exists , it leaves the fed with no ammunition to fight the inevitable next downturn and crisis .
we ignore history at great peril .
the latest disappointment for inflation-targeting central banks is really not a surprise after all . the same is true of the related drop in long-term interest rates .
there is much to be gained by studying carefully the lessons of japan .
a rest stop for europe
princeton – last week , in a highly anticipated speech , german president jo ach im ga uck cau tioned against the blind pursuit of an “ ever- closer ” european union , acknowledging that the growing inequality among member states is generating “ a sense of unease , even unmistakable anger , ” and increasing the risk of national humiliation .
he pointed out that , in addition to the economic crisis , there is “ a crisis of confidence in europe as a political project . ”
while ga uck made clear that he remains decidedly pro- europe , he highlighted the need for closer reflection about europe ’ s future – and especially that of the eurozone .
standing on the verge of greater integration , europeans are hesitant , “ unsure whether we should really str ide out on the onward journey . ”
addressing this hesitation , he declared , will require a thoughtful , nuanced understanding of what “ more europe ” actually means .
ga uck may not have gone far enough : at this point , an ever- closer union may be a political mir age .
any meaningful progress toward stabilizing the eurozone would require a significant – potentially open-ended – financial commitment , and the eu is not politically ready to cross that threshold .
repeatedly pretending to move forward , then pulling back at the critical point , exacerbates political uncertainty and economic vulnerability .
rather than in decisively pursuing more unity , this may be the moment to restore effective sovereignty to national authorities in eurozone countries .
such a move would alleviate anxiety in the short term , thereby giving europeans the opportunity to re group in preparation for future steps toward a more integrated europe and a more resilient euro .
to this end , eurozone leaders must take three key steps .
the dysfunctional system of european fiscal governance should be dismantled ; fiscal responsibility should be returned to member states ; and , to minimize the risk of excessive future lending , private lenders should be required to bear the losses implied by unsustainable sovereign debt .
the case against european fiscal governance is straightforward .
before the crisis , the single- minded emphasis on reducing national budget deficits to less than 3 % of gdp led to extensive abuse .
either the target was openly fl ou ted , as it was in leading economies like germany and france , or the data were manipulated to obscure problems ( a common practice throughout the eurozone , not just in greece ) .
when the crisis struck , the 3 % deficit target became the fo cal point for un rel enting austerity – a form of what anthropolog ist clif ford ge er tz described as “ invol ution , ” which occurs when a process intensi fies rather than changes in response to external or internal pressure .
in other words , eu leaders began to complicate fiscal governance , ultimately creating an inefficient , inescapable lab y r in th of regulation and bureaucracy .
as fiscal metrics become increasingly intr icate , monitoring efforts will become ever easier to undermine .
the case for returning fiscal responsibility to national authorities is also strong – and not only because centralized fiscal authority has proved to be so inefficient .
with citizens of distressed countries bearing the fiscal burden of the crisis , the enduring presumption that they will not act responsibly is patron izing , at best .
and the current strategy of exchanging go o dies for good behavior encourages game- playing and dil utes responsibility .
while the risk that governments will succumb to fiscal temptation remains , citizens ’ current suffering is likely to deter future excesses .
national fiscal sovereignty would facilitate the final crucial step : building a more mature relationship with private lenders .
the eurozone was founded on the “ no bailout ” principle : if member states could not repay their debts , lenders would bear the losses .
but lenders chose – correctly , as it turned out – to disregard that threat .
instead of enforcing the no- bailout principle and establishing a precedent , debtor countries used official loans to repay private creditors .
as a result , these countries have condemned themselves to continued austerity , low growth , and high debt , while diminishing any future incentive for private lenders to impose fiscal discipline on sovereign borrowers .
only by shifting the burden of responsibility back onto private lenders can debtor countries escape this quagmire .
in the united states , each state is responsible for its fiscal management , without being forced to comply with a single , overarching tem plate .
the states are not regulated by the federal government ; they are disciplined by the knowledge that no one will repay their debts for them .
and the system seems to work : entering the crisis , us states had significantly lower deficit and debt ratios than the eurozone ’ s vulnerable member states .
so far , european integration has largely been a process of “ falling forward , ” with each stum ble serving as a lesson from which a stronger union emerges .
but , while this uncertain approach may suffice as a basis for declarations of good intentions , it does not inspire the confidence required for countries to make the profound financial commitment that is now needed .
europeans should have the chance to regain their footing .
transferring fiscal responsibility back to national authorities would not only mean the end of counterproductive efforts to manage fiscal affairs centr ally ; it would also diminish the sense of frustration and lack of control that is fueling euro- skepticism .
in short , taking a step back would provide an opportunity to reset , to reflect , and to plot the best course toward a more stable , more integrated europe .
for a fiscal union to function – however unlikely that outcome may be – a solid foundation is crucial .
as ga uck explained , europeans “ are pa using to … equip [ themselves ] both intellectually and emotionally for the next step , which will require [ them ] to enter uncharted territory . ”
giving europeans the time and space to choose more europe would reinforce the core values upon which integration has rested for more than six decades .
continuing to stum ble forward , however , would inevitably lead to a debilitating , if not fatal , fall .
a european cure for balkan depression
vienna – european politics is mostly shaped by events and anni vers aries .
but while events are often un foreseeable , anni vers aries are not .
five years from now , europe will be reflecting on the 10 0th anniversary of the outbreak of world war 1 , which led to a loss of life almost without parallel and set in motion a chain of events that led to the creation of europe as we now know it .
it is easy to predict that sar aj evo will be the place where they will meet to look back on europe ’ s sav age twentieth century .
but how will sar aj evo look in five years ?
will it still be the capital of a country whose citizens view the future ble ak ly and whose politicians have totally lost touch with the electorate ?
or is there a hope that european leaders will use the anniversary to announce the successful integration of the remaining balkan countries into the european union ?
a balkan monitor survey recently conducted by gallup europe gives suggests the state of public opinion in serbia , mon ten e gr o , macedonia , albania , croatia , bosnia and her ze go v ina , and kosovo 20 years on from the fall of the berlin wall and a decade after the end of the kosovo war .
the findings seem to indicate that the next five years will be a ma ke- or- break period for the region ’ s future development .
while the overwhelming majority of citizens are convinced that further armed conflict in the region is unlikely , the public ’ s mood – with the exception of kosov ars and alban ians – is pessimistic .
the future promises peace without development .
trust in political elites and in national and european institutions has been steadily declining .
the majority of citizens have experienced a decline in living standards in the last year , and there remains a perception that people have more opportunities outside their own countries .
pessimism about employment is alarm ingly high among young people , while corruption and government mismanagement are regarded as being widespread .
all those who have made it their job to praise the stability in the region should look at these figures .
indeed , it is striking that the majority of citizens of bosnia and her ze go v ina believe that their leaders are not interested in their country joining the eu .
an absolute majority of citizens in each of the surveyed countries are convinced that their country is heading in the wrong direction .
less than one in 10 cro ats ( whose country could be joining the eu in the near future ) believes that their country is heading in the right direction .
there are now two options for the region : one is a “ shock integration ” program that takes all of the western balkan states into the eu ; the other is a journey into the unknown . the hope that these countries can muddle through on their own is a dangerous illusion .
stability alone can no longer be the eu ’ s only objective in the region .
the eu ’ s continuing presence as a colonial power in places like bosnia and her ze go v ina and kosovo could cause even more problems in the future , especially if benefits are not forthcoming .
in particular , a delay in serbia ’ s integration into the eu could bring ti to- inspired fantasies to the heart of the country ’ s foreign and security policy .
thus , dem or alization of balkan society creates a dynamic of its own when the best and the brightest see their future outside of their own countries and where “ stability ” is just another name for political and economic stagnation .
if european leaders do plan to meet in 2014 in sar aj evo , they should act now .
the ratification of the lisbon treaty allows for an element of visionary realism in european politics , as there are no longer any institutional obstacles to the future enlargement of the eu .
today , unlike a year ago , we know how many states are in the balkans , and the balkan monitor results show that all of them want to join the union .
what the eu has learned from the results of the last parliamentary elections in bulgaria is that , contrary to conventional wisdom , the leverage of brussels over new member states increases rather than diminishes after they join .
the eu ’ s decision to liberalize its visa regime for serbia , mon ten e gr o , and macedonia – and the fact that george pap andre ou , the major architect of the eu ’ s balkan integration strategy , is back in power in greece – is another source of optimism .
but it is now or never for the balkans .
visa liberalization can be a strategic step in the direction of “ shock integration , ” but if it is not followed by bold political action from the eu , it could merely become a re- packaging of the status quo .
in short , the moment has arrived for shaping events instead of simply marking anni vers aries .
closing europe ’ s strategy gap
but one question has largely escaped thorough examination : what russia ’ s annexation of crimea and invasion of eastern ukraine indicates about the european union ’ s foreign policy .
during the early stages of the crisis , germany , which had bet heavily on russia ’ s modernization , was averse to taking any consequential action .
but , as the crisis deepened , german chancellor angela merkel worked to persuade her european counterparts to implement a broad and b iting sanctions regime .
this certainly was a step in the right direction , but it did nothing to address the foreign-policy failings that helped spark the ukrainian crisis and continue to undermine europe ’ s response – namely , the eu ’ s misguided neighborhood policy ( en p ) and its muddled approach to energy .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’ s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly being out maneu vered by russian president vladimir putin .
it increasingly appears that ukraine is becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’ s foreign-policy speci alty .
indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with the fragile but enduring ceasefire – and accompanying legislation that grants don et sk and lu hans k considerable political autonomy – allowing russia to entren ch the conflict near the eu ’ s border .
moreover , the delayed implementation of key elements of the eu ’ s association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that , at the moment , russia dictates the terms of eu- ukrainian engagement .
in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful di vi de- and- rule strategy , particularly in view of hungary ’ s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine .
prime minister viktor orbán ’ s government , whose behavior in recent years has been at odds with the eu ’ s criteria for democracy , now openly approv es of authoritarian regimes – and putin ’ s , in particular – with serious potential consequences for european unity .
nonetheless , the timing of the current ceasefire , which coin cides with the install ation of a new eu commission , is advantageous , as is putin ’ s shortsighted emphasis on tactical victories .
eu leaders should take advantage of the break in the fighting to stop reacting and start anticipating .
with a long-term strategic vision , the eu could overwhelm and ultimately undermine putin ’ s short-term successes .
such a vision must include a re concep tu alization of the en p .
the program ’ s mission – to help guide the political , social , and economic transitions of neighboring states – is not inherently problematic ; the problem lies in the way that the mission has been interpreted and pursued .
for starters , the en p assumes that all of the eu ’ s neighbors , both in the south and in the east , ultimately want to realize european values and structures in their own countries .
in other words , the en p does not account for the develop mental , cultural , and aspir ational differences among the eu ’ s partner countries .
the en p suffers oper ati onally from its excessively technical approach and lack of strategic vision .
for example , before the ukraine crisis , the european commission was so focused on negotiating the technical features of the association agreement that it did not consider adequately the potential fallout of the process – such as , say , a response from russia .
to be sure , the eu recognized its need for a coherent strategy , and attempted to resolve it by establishing the european external action service and the position of high representative for foreign affairs .
but the e eas ended up in a tur f war with the european commission , and outgoing high representative ca ther ine ash ton did little to ease the tension , owing to her unwillingness to involve herself in intra- eu disagreements .
it is telling that ash ton has made progress exclusively in areas defined by ample consensus , such as the negotiations on iran ’ s nuclear program and the pact between kosovo and serbia .
further eroding europe ’ s effectiveness is its fragmented approach to securing energy supplies .
with every country largely controlling its own energy policy , europe ’ s energy market has become inefficient and excessively dependent on russian supplies .
to the extent that there has been an eu-wide energy strategy , it has related to renewables , rather than the inter section of geopolitics and energy security .
but there is reason for hope .
the new commission , which its president , jean claude juncker , has restructured significantly , could provide europe with the strategic leadership it so badly needs .
in fact , juncker has already expressed a desire to integrate incoming high representative feder ica mo gh er ini into the commission ’ s policy program .
the new structure – which tasks mo gh er ini with guiding and coordinating the work of multiple commissioners , including those responsible for trade , the en p , and climate and energy – should strengthen the coherence and direction of eu policies , particularly after mo gh er ini comple tes her european counc il- mandated assessment of the global strategic landscape .
for that to happen , mo gh er ini must assert herself as a leader , backed by juncker and the new european council president , donald tusk .
and , most important , all eu member states must recomm it themselves to cooperation .
the ukrainian people have demonstrated the power of europe ’ s values .
indeed , europe has a large set of tools at its disposal ; it just needs to figure out how to use them .
if it can , it will be better able to respond not only to the russian challenge , but also to many of the other challenges that characterize today ’ s rapidly shifting global environment .
a europe of women ?
paris – are women in europe on the verge of becoming an engine for political change ?
in economic- development circles , experience and common sense suggest that progress , accountability , and hard work start with and depend on women .
micro- credits , for example , are much more efficient when women receive and repay them .
perhaps because they bear children and must find the means to feed them , women are now perceived as the best and most determined “ agents of change . ”
that seems to be as true now of european politics as it has been of economics in parts of africa and asia .
the results of italy ’ s recent municipal elections could be a signal of an incipient electoral dynamic : it was women who voted silvio berlusconi ’ s party out of power in milan , a city that he has long controlled ( and the original seat of his power ) .
no direct link exists between that result and the dramatic dominique straus s- kahn scandal in new york , but in the immediate aftermath of d sk ’ s arrest , italian women and young voters decisively mobilized to defeat berlusconi ’ s party ( led in milan , ironically , by a woman ) .
these voters could no longer stand the combination of mach ism o and vul g arity that had once served so well the man italian hu mor ists now call “ ber l us- kahn . ”
when berlusconi first came to power 17 years ago , he had the support of a majority of women .
they were not discouraged by his ambival ent perception of them ( by turns celebrating their traditional domes tic ity and glor ifying their sexual objec tification ) .
but italian society has changed : most women are now working , and they are no longer willing to accept bel us coni ’ s anachron istic and outrageous chauvinism .
italian men may pity the aging , isolated leader , who looks increasingly like his wa x e ff ig y at mad ame tus saud ’ s .
but italian women ( indeed , women everywhere , it seems ) feel only anger and humiliation over a man so obsessed with himself , his various criminal trials , and his vul gar pleas ures that he appears to them to have no purpose left except to remain in power as long as possible .
women , of course , are not alone in their opposition to berlusconi , but they made the difference in milan .
they are the incar nation of modernity , animated by a yearning for simple dignity and respect .
they are not alone in the vanguard of a new europe of women .
as iceland spir aled into bankruptcy , owing the irresponsible behavior of its mostly male political and financial elites , the people of iceland decided that only a strong and responsible woman could redress the country ’ s problems .
so they elected one as president .
the depth and gravity of the current economic and social crisis in countries like greece , portugal , and spain present women with a new opportunity .
confronted with what many of them perceive as the equivalent of an “ economic war , ” women are playing an increasingly important role in maintaining their families ’ financial security .
and the more widespread this becomes , the more women will seek a political role that reflects their economic clout .
of course , women ’ s changing status may not translate immediately into growing political influence .
and the rest of europe might never follow the example of scandinavia , where gender equality has advanced much further than anywhere else .
similarly , regardless of the outcome of d sk ’ s trial in new york , the case might represent a turning point in the treatment of women in europe .
public and private displays of at av istic mach ism o , one hopes , will no longer be considered acceptable .
in the arab world , too , from tun is to cairo , young women have played an important role in the revolutionary process .
their appetite for change – understandable , given the treatment of women in traditional muslim societies – appears to be one of the main causes underlying the force of the revolutionary impulse in tunisia and egypt .
none of this is to argue that “ women ” are a universal force for positive change in europe and around the world .
consider , for example , marine le pen , the new head of france ’ s national front , el ena ce auc escu , the sor did wife of the former romanian dictator , or , more recently , tunisian ex- president z ine el ab id ine ben ali ’ s wife , le ila tr ab el si , who fled to dubai with 1.5 tons of gold pl under ed from the central bank .
the point , simply , is that with so many people in so many countries demanding far-reaching change , the politics of gender is very much in play – in europe and beyond .
the main question is whether the growing number of women in politics will deliver the different perspectives and modes of leadership that many voters ( or protesters ) now seem to cr a ve .
a euro s abb ati cal
munich – under substantial external pressure , the eurozone ’ s crisis- hit countries are , at long last , bringing themselves to make painful cuts in their government budgets .
salaries are being slashed and public employees sacked to reduce new borrowing to a tolerable level .
and yet , competitiveness in greece and portugal , in particular , is not improving .
the latest euro st at figures on the evolution of the price index for self- produced goods ( gdp defl ator ) show no tendency whatsoever in the crisis- stricken countries towards real devaluation . but real devaluation , achieved by lowering prices vis-à-vis their eurozone competitors , is the only way to re-establish these countries ’ competitiveness .
a reduction in unit labor costs can also increase competitiveness only to the extent that it actually results in price reductions .
after all , it was price inflation in the crisis countries , fueled by massive inflows of cheap credit following the introduction of the euro , that resulted in their loss of competitiveness , ballo oning current-account deficits , and accumulation of enormous foreign debt .
now that capital markets are no longer willing to finance these deficits , prices should be going into reverse , but this , obviously , is not happening .
in 2010 , inflation in some of the crisis countries lagged slightly behind that of their eurozone competitors .
the latest euro st at figures for the third quarter of 2011 , however , are already showing a different picture : the price level in portugal and greece has remained practically unchanged over the course of the year , and in italy and spain it even rose slightly ( by 0.4 % and 0.3 % , respectively ) .
only ireland continued on a path of rapid deflation – as it has since the country ’ s real-estate bubble burst in 2006 – with a relative price decrease of 2.2 % .
on the whole , ireland has become cheaper relative to its eurozone competitors by a total of 15 % over the course of the past five years .
this internal devaluation is paying off : while ireland was still running a current-account deficit of 5.6 % of gdp in 2008 , the european commission expects the out turn for 2011 to have been a 0.7 % -of-gdp current-account surplus .
true , much of this is mere debt-service relief , given that ireland was able to repay its foreign liabilities with self- printed money , for which it pays only 1 % interest .
however , ireland ’ s big trade surplus did improve further .
ireland owes much of this turnaround to its efficient export sector , whose supporters were able to enforce a political u- turn .
greece , on the other hand , is under the influence of a strong import lobby .
as the greek economics minister , mic hal is chr y so cho id is , has said , this is attributable to european union subsidies , which drove entrepreneurs to follow the easy money into the import sector .
now these importers form a powerful bulwark against any policy that causes deflation , even though lowering prices – and thereby re directing greek demand from foreign to domestic products and helping tourism – is the only way to put the greek economy back on its feet .
since greece ’ s current-account deficit as a share of gdp was three times higher than ireland ’ s , greek prices would have to fall by about half to achieve the same kind of success .
it is inconceivable that greece could manage that within the eurozone without widespread social unrest , if not conditions approaching those of civil war .
the situation is intractable .
many people regard debt relief and socialization of debts as the only way out .
this help has been given .
the recent agreement gave greece relief of € 2 37 billion ( $ 3 16 billion ) , about 30 % more than greece ’ s net national income of roughly € 180 billion euro s . but such help only entren ches the wrong prices – and thus the economy ’ s lack of competitiveness .
the debts will re- emerge like a tumor , growing year by year , while undermining the creditworthiness of stable eurozone countries .
if that happened , the euro would eventually collapse .
only a price reduction would create current-account surpluses and enable the crisis countries to pay off their foreign debts .
it is time for europe to come to terms with this remor seless truth .
those crisis countries that do not want to take it upon themselves to lower their prices should be given the opportunity to leave the eurozone temporarily in order to devalue prices and debts .
in other words , they should take a kind of euro s abb ati cal – a proposal that has now also been taken up by american economist kenneth rogoff .
after the ensuing financial th underst or m died down , the sun would come out again very quickly .
the creditor countries would have to shoulder big losses from write- downs , but they would still end up with more than they would have gotten had the crisis countries remained within the eurozone , because these countries ’ new prosperity , gained by leaving , offers the only chance of recovering any assets at all .
a fair deal for turkey
turkey has been given what looks like an ultim at um from the eu commission : open your ports for ships from cyprus within a month , or you may risk a halt to the eu accession talks now underway .
at the same time , the commission ’ s latest report on turkey ’ s progress toward accession notes that political reforms have slowed down , further calling into question the country ’ s future eu membership .
the commission ’ s progress report will be dealt with by the european council next month .
at that meeting , european leaders should ask themselves the following questions : has the eu given turkey a fair deal in the case of cyprus ?
has the eu ’ s behavior been consistent in supporting political reform in turkey ?
what are the eu ’ s long-term interests vis-à-vis turkey ?
if the answers to the first two questions are “ no ” – as i believe they are – the third question becomes vitally important .
true , turkey has closed its ports to ships from ( greek ) cyprus , and this is a violation of agreements .
but it is also true that the northern turkish part of cyprus is denied access to free trade and other benefits from eu- membership .
this is because cyprus remains a divided island .
it was assumed that cyprus should be united when the country joined the eu in 2004 .
a united nations plan for unification was accepted by the turkish part .
but the greek cypri ots voted against the plan because their leaders did not live up to the implicit deal with the eu to support it .
nevertheless , cyprus became an eu member – but only the greek part .
this was clearly a mistake , because it made the eu part of the conflict .
it gave greek cypriot leaders the possibility of blocking progress in negotiations between the eu and turkey .
political and legal reforms in turkey in recent years have been remarkably far-reaching , for they have clearly been spurred by turks ’ wish to move closer to the eu .
but turkish public support for eu membership has fallen dramatically as turks have grown to feel that they are not being given a fair deal .
this has given new strength to those who want turkey to develop in another direction , towards a more islamic society instead of a modern secular state .
therefore , the recent lack of progress in turkey ’ s reform process can to a large extent be explained by the eu ’ s behavior .
this leaves us with the third question : what kind of turkey does the eu want ?
there should be no doubt about the answer : it is clearly in the eu ’ s interest to see turkey ’ s democracy and economy continue to strengthen .
more than 40 years ago , it was promised that once turkey lives up to the preconditions for membership , it will be welcome in the eu .
it is high time that european leaders take this promise seriously .
it is a sad fact that a large majority of voters in the eu are against turkish membership .
but they are reacting to the current situation .
when they are asked if they would like a reformed turkey as a partner – a turkey that lives up fully to the conditions for membership described in the copenhagen criteria ( democracy , rule of law , respect for human rights , and an effective market economy ) – many more are inclined to say yes .
european leaders must therefore take up two challenges .
first , they should say clearly to their own voters that the eu must live up to its promises to turkey , and that this is in the larger interest of all europeans .
second , they should give turkey a fair deal in the negotiations .
the first lit m us test on european leadership concerns the practical problem of access to harb ors .
here the fin ns , who chair the eu right now , have taken an initiative to implement a pragmatic solution that takes into consideration both sides in the conflict .
the fin nish initiative should be given strong support from all european leaders .
at the same time , a new effort should be made to bring life to the un ’ s proposals regarding cyprus .
if this means putting pressure on some actors within the eu ’ s own ranks , so be it .
a fare well to ( glorious ) war
in recent days , italy ’ s government fell after losing a parliamentary vote on the country ’ s troop deployment in afghanistan , while britain and denmark announced that they are to begin withdrawing their troops from iraq .
whereas the bush administration is deploying an additional 2 1,000 american soldiers in iraq , and is pushing for more allied troops in afghanistan , america ’ s allies are rejecting its middle east policy .
they are increasingly convinced that “ victory ” will be elusive in any asymmetric conflict between states , however powerful , and relig iously driven armed insurgents .
donald rumsfeld ’ s dogma of military “ transformation ” – the technological upgrading of an army ’ s capacity to enable decisive victory with fewer troops – failed res ound ingly in iraq .
nor could israel , with its overwhelming technological advantage , defeat hezbollah in lebanon .
more rockets and missiles fell on northern israel in 33 days than hit britain during all of world war ii .
so the israelis now must reckon with an entirely new phenomenon : an asymmetric entity , hezbollah , with nation-state firepower .
so the fierce debate over whether to increase the size of american ground forces in iraq is beside the point .
neither the soviet experience in afghanistan in the 1980 ’ s nor nato ’ s today v indicates the claim that troop numbers are what matter most on the modern battlefield .
the great military thin ker carl von cl aus e witz ’ s notion of “ decisive battles ” as the “ center of gravity ” of war is simply irrelevant to conflicts that have no visible “ center of gravity . ”
indeed , while wars from the time of hann ib al ’ s defeat of the roman s in 2 16 b . c . to the gulf war of 1991 had this center of gravity , with a massive concentration of force capable of bringing an enemy to its knees , such industrial inter- state wars have now become an historical anachron ism .
most states nowadays lie within borders that are widely accepted as legitimate , and they increasingly abide by international norms of behavior in times of war .
in fact , the obligation of states to abide by humanitarian rules of conduct while their enemies are free to barbar ize warfare is what makes asymmetric wars especially in solu ble .
moreover , in an era of global media and international war crimes courts , the criteria for states ’ use of military force have become more complex than ever .
inter- state combat may still occur where strategic front lines can be found , such as israel ’ s border with syria , india ’ s border with pakistan , and the border dividing the two kore as .
in such cases , war , as the egyptians showed in 1973 , might still serve as an aven ue to resolving a conflict .
the syrians might be tempted to launch an offensive against israel with the objective of breaking the deadlock over the future of the golan heights .
however , in the case of kashmir , the asymmetric conflict currently fought by proxies and terrorist groups might not de generate into all-out war precisely because india and pakistan have mutual nuclear deterr enc e. indeed , such asymmetric conflicts through proxies have become the new conventional way that states avoid the price of a general war .
this changing nature of the battlefield essentially means that war as a conclusive event in an international conflict has become obsolete .
the facile cl aus e wit z ian wisdom that military action ultimately leads to a political solution is no longer convincing .
“ victory ” can not bring peace , simply because there will always be a war after the war .
thus , for example , the conventional war in kosovo lasted for two months , only to usher in a six -year asymmetric conflict .
likewise , america ’ s three- week “ shock and a we ” campaign in iraq in 2003 ended in “ victory , ” but opened the gates of hell for occup iers and ordinary iraqis alike .
and six months after the merc il ess p ounding of southern lebanon , hezbollah is as strong as it was before .
nor does the return of the taliban in afghanistan six years after their overthrow now seen too far-fetched .
it is during the war after the war that the occup ier ’ s infer i ority is revealed , with constant rein for cements increasing the number of targets for the insurgents far more quickly than the occup ier can adapt to the changing battlefield .
the insurgents in iraq , as the british admit , were able in just three years to cope with their enemies ’ technological superiority in a way that the ira in northern ireland was unable to do in 30 years .
the iraq war and israel ’ s wars with hamas and hezbollah show the limits of what military power can achieve , as well as v indicate diplomacy and conflict resolution .
when it comes to tackling complex political and cultural conflicts , forging international and regional alliances around a legitimate objective is more important than sheer military capacity .
that said , it would be dangerously naïve to believe that the exercise of power and the capacity to intimidate are unnecessary .
but the objectives of the use of force need to be linked to the recognition that in today ’ s asymmetric conflicts , victory is no longer achieved on the battlefield .
only better- informed foreign policies that can address the genuine anxieties of civilizations in crisis will yield more sustainable results .
a fare well to nuclear arms
moscow – twenty- five years ago this month , i sat across from ronald reagan in re y k j avi k , iceland to negotiate a deal that would have reduced , and could have ultimately eliminated by 2000 , the fear some arsenals of nuclear weapons held by the united states and the soviet union .
for all our differences , reagan and i shared the strong conviction that civilized countries should not make such barbar ic weapons the lin ch pin of their security .
even though we failed to achieve our highest aspirations in re y k j avi k , the summit was nonetheless , in the words of my former counterpart , “ a major turning point in the quest for a safer and secure world . ”
the next few years may well determine if our shared dream of rid ding the world of nuclear weapons will ever be realized .
critics present nuclear disarmament as unrealistic at best , and a risky utopian dream at worst .
as someone who has comman ded these weapons , i strongly disagree .
nuclear deterrence has always been a hard and brit tle guarantor of peace .
by failing to propose a compelling plan for nuclear disarmament , the us , russia , and the remaining nuclear powers are promoting through inaction a future in which nuclear weapons will inevitably be used .
that catastrophe must be forest alled .
as i , along with george p . sh ul tz , william j. per ry , henry a. kissinger , sam n un n , and others , pointed out five years ago , nuclear deterrence becomes less reliable and more risky as the number of nuclear-armed states increases .
barring preemptive war ( which has proven counterproductive ) or effective sanctions ( which have thus far proven insufficient ) , only sincere steps toward nuclear disarmament can fur nish the mutual security needed to forge tough compromises on arms control and non proliferation matters .
the trust and understanding built at re y k j avi k paved the way for two historic treaties .
the 1987 intermedi ate- range nuclear forces ( in f ) treaty destroyed the feared quick - strike missiles then threatening europe ’ s peace .
and , in 1991 , the first strategic arms reduction treaty ( start i ) cut the bloated us and soviet nuclear arsenals by 80 % over a decade .
but prospects for progress on arms control and non proliferation are dark ening in the absence of a credible push for nuclear disarmament .
i learned during those two long days in re y k j avi k that disarmament talks could be as constructive as they are ar du ous .
by linking an array of inter related matters , reagan and i built the trust and understanding needed to moderate a nuclear- arms race of which we had lost control .
in retrospect , the cold war ’ s end heralded the coming of a messi er arrangement of global power and persuasion .
the nuclear powers should adhere to the requirements of the 1968 non-proliferation treaty and resume “ good faith ” negotiations for disarmament .
this would augment the diplomatic and moral capital available to diplomats as they strive to restrain nuclear proliferation in a world where more countries than ever have the where with al to construct a nuclear bomb .
only a serious program of universal nuclear disarmament can provide the reassurance and the credibility needed to build a global consensus that nuclear deterrence is a dead doctrine .
we can no longer afford , politically or financially , the discriminatory nature of the current system of nuclear “ ha ves ” and “ ha ve- no ts . ”
re y k j avi k proved that boldness is rewarded .
conditions were far from favorable for a disarmament deal in 1986 .
before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations between the cold war superpowers had hit rock bottom .
reagan and i were nonetheless able to create a reservo ir of constructive spirit through constant outreach and face-to- face interaction .
what seem to be lacking today are leaders with the boldness and vision to build the trust needed to re introduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order .
economic constraints and the chernobyl disaster helped spur us to action .
why has the great recession and the disastrous meltdown at fukushima da i ichi in japan not elic ited a similar response today ?
a first step would be for the us finally to ratify the 1996 comprehensive test ban treaty ( ctbt ) .
president barack obama has endorsed this treaty as a vital instrument to discourage proliferation and avert nuclear war .
it ’ s time for obama to make good on commitments he made in prague in 2009 , take up reagan ’ s mantle as great commun ic ator , and persuade the us senate to form alize america ’ s adherence to the ctbt .
this would compel the remaining holdouts – china , egypt , india , indonesia , iran , israel , north korea , and pakistan – to reconsider the ctbt as well .
that would bring us closer to a global ban on nuclear tests in any environment – the atmosphere , under sea , in outer space , or underground .
this step must be related to limits on missile defense , one of the key issues that undermined the re y k j avi k summit .
a fis s ile material cu t- off treaty ( f mc t ) , long stalled in multilateral talks in geneva , and a successful second nuclear security summit next year in seoul , will help secure dangerous nuclear materials .
this will also require that the 2002 global partnership , dedicated to securing and eliminating all weapons of mass destruction – nuclear , chemical , and biological – is renewed and expanded when it conven es next year in the us .
our world remains too militarized .
in today ’ s economic climate , nuclear weapons have become lo ath some money p its .
if , as seems likely , economic troubles continue , the us , russia , and other nuclear powers should seize the moment to launch multilateral arms reductions through new or existing channels such as the un conference on disarmament .
these deliberations would yield greater security for less money .
but the buildup of conventional military forces – driven in large part by the enormous military might deployed globally by the us – must be addressed as well .
as we engage in further ing our conventional forces in europe ( cf e ) agreement , we should seriously consider reducing the burden of military budgets and forces globally .
us president john f. kennedy once warned that “ every man , woman , and child lives under a nuclear sword of dam o cles , hanging by the sl end er est of thre ads , capable of being cut at any moment . ”
for more than 50 years , humanity has war ily eyed that lethal pendulum while statesmen debated how to mend its fra ying cor ds .
the example of re y k j avi k should remind us that pal li ative measures are not enough .
our efforts 25 years ago can be vindicated only when the bomb ends up beside the slave trad er ’ s man ac les and the great war ’ s mu st ard gas in the museum of by gone sav ag ery .
affirmative action for europe
the violence in france , fueled by staggering unemployment and ruthless policing , reflects the utter failure of the french model of social integration .
but violence elsewhere in europe , such as the london bombings of july and the brutal murder of dutch fil m maker the o van go gh on the streets of amsterdam in november 2004 , had already made europe ’ s failure to integrate its minorities painfully clear .
as the riots in france fade , french politicians are agon izing about how to proceed .
forty years ago , after legal segregation of bl acks and whites formally ended in america , the united states was confronted by similar problems .
america ’ s response shows , however , that integration can not be viewed as a one- way street .
in addition to imposing demands and constraints on minorities to join the mainstream , society must be willing to demand of itself that it make room for all its citizens .
as a potential model to be followed , europe should look at the so-called “ affirmative action ” policies that america enacted to provide opportunities to bl acks .
affirmative action , or “ positive discrimination , ” as some have called these policies , began with university ad missions .
but , in the early 1970 ’ s , president richard m. nixon expanded the scope of affirmative action .
as a result , ethnicity began to be weighed as a positive factor not only in university ad missions , but also in public procurement decisions , credit facilities for small enterprises , and government hiring .
the rational for affirmative action in those early years was the fact that , after a long history of systemic injustice , merely out la wing discrimination based on race or gender would not ensure equal opportunity for all .
such programs are often viewed as contradic ting a basic american value , namely that ad missions , lending , and hiring decisions should be based on the merits of the individual , not group distinc tions .
but they remain in existence three decades later .
indeed , leading american companies , like general mo tors , general electric , and walmart , have created affirmative action programs for hiring and selecting suppliers at their own initiative .
similarly , anch or men and anch or women from all ethnic backgrounds popul ate american television news programs .
affirmative action in the us has been effective in creating a large african-american middle class .
the percentage of black households earning over $ 50,000 a year ( adjusted for inflation ) has more than tripled over the last four decades , from 9. 1 % in 1967 to 2 7.8 % in 2001 .
indeed , in the us , more people of color and women hold top jobs in the public and private sector than anywhere else in the world .
the fact that a large black under class remains – something the recent floods in new orleans revealed in a horr ific ally dramatic way – is mainly the result of failing school systems .
affirmative action programs , of course , have always been vulnerable to attack by those who can ’ t benefit from them .
in 2003 , a white student asked the us supreme court to declare that the use of race in the university of michigan ’ s admission policies violated the equal protection clause of the four teenth amendment of the us constitution .
the supreme court , however , ruled that the program was constitutional , citing a “ compelling state interest ” in racial diversity .
“ effective participation by members of all racial and ethnic groups in the civil life of our nation , ” the court said , “ is essential if the dream of one nation , indi visible , is to be realized . ”
in reaching its decision , the supreme court took into account a legal brief submitted by 60 major american businesses , led by general mo tors , asking that affirmative action be upheld .
they argued that the skills needed in today ’ s global marketplace can only be developed through exposure to a wide diversity of people .
retired military officers and commanders told the court that affirmative action was essential to maintaining an integrated officer corps .
what america ’ s affirmative action programs may not do is set quotas for minorities , as this prevents competition between different groups .
but , in comparing groups , it is permitted to use an individual ’ s status as member of an under- represented minority in his or her favor .
as a result , a university may select a black student with a satisfactory score on the ad missions test , even if there is a white student with a better score .
from the current french view point , however , laws and regulations based on ethnicity are regarded as an unwelcome encro achment on the republican ideal .
french president jacques chirac vehem ently opposes quotas for immigrants , out of fear that such a policy would stigm ati ze groups .
and french businesses don ’ t see it as their role to solve the problems of the subur bs .
moreover , french interior minister nicolas sarkozy hasn ’ t done much except hand out some special grants to the smar test immigrants from the subur bs .
france does have affirmative action programs , but they address poverty , not ethnicity .
if european politicians are serious about preventing a sch ism between population groups , affirmative action is essential – not only at the workplace , but also for small business loans , home loans , public procurement , and school ad missions .
tony blair , who in july was faced with the shortcomings of integration in the uk , should take advantage of the country ’ s current presidency of the european union to make affirmative action programs the top priority at next month ’ s summit of european government leaders in brussels .
affordable green energy
copenhagen – public skepticism about global warming may be growing , but the scientific consensus is as solid as ever : man-made climate change is real , and we ignore it at our peril .
but if that issue is settled ( and it should be ) , there is an equally large and important question that remains wide open : what should we do about it ?
one prescription that is ban died about with increasing frequency certainly sounds sensible : the world should drastically cut the amount of greenhouse gases that it pum ps into the atmosphere each day .
specifically , we are told , the goal should be a 50 % reduction in global carbon-dioxide emissions by the middle of the century .
even its backers concede that achieving this target won ’ t be easy – and they are right .
in fact , they are so right that they are wrong .
allow me to explain .
for all the talk about solar , wind , and other hyp ed green- energy sources , they make up only 0.6 % of global energy consumption . renewable energy overwhelmingly comes from often- unsustainable burning of wood and biomass by people in the third world .
fossil fuels account for more than four- fifths of the world ’ s energy diet .
so , in order to cut global carbon emissions in half by the middle of the century , we would obviously have to start getting a lot more of our energy from sources that don ’ t emit carbon .
can we do this ?
according to the international energy agency , here ’ s what it would take to achieve the goal of cutting emissions by 50 % between now and mid-century :
now consider this : this list does not describe what we would have to build between now and 2050 , but what we would have to build each and every year until then !
one more thing : even if we managed to do all this ( which we obviously can not ) , the impact on global temperatures would be hardly notic eable by 2050 .
according to the best- known climate- economic model , this vast undertaking would likely wind up reducing global temperatures by just one- tenth of one degree centi grade ( one-fifth of one degree fa h ren he it ) , while holding back sea-level rises by only one centi meter ( less than half an in ch ) .
that ’ s not a lot of bang for the buck .
indeed , the projected costs of this approach – some $ 5 trillion annually by mid-century – are so much greater than its likely benefits that it makes no sense to call it a solution at all .
fortunately , there is a better , smarter way to deal with global warming .
what if , instead of spending trillions of dollars trying to build an impossible number of power plants – or , more likely , condemning billions of people around the world to continued poverty by trying to make carbon- emitting fuels too expensive to use – we devoted ourselves to making green energy cheaper ?
right now , solar panels are so expensive – about 10 times more than fossil fuels in terms of cost per unit of energy output – that only well- he eled , well-meaning ( and , usually , well- subsidized ) westerners can afford to install them .
but think where we ’ d be if we could improve the efficiency of solar cells by a factor of ten – in other words , if we could make them cheaper than fossil fuels .
we wouldn ’ t have to force ( or subsidize ) anyone to stop burning coal and oil .
everyone , including the chinese and the indians , would shift to the cheaper and cleaner alternatives – and global emission targets would automatically be met .
can we achieve this technological miracle over the next 20 to 40 years ?
in a word , yes .
the price of solar energy has been dropping steadily for 30 years – by about 50 % every decade – and we could likely accelerate that decline further with sufficiently large investments in research and development .
how large ?
if we were willing to devote just 0.2 % of global gdp ( roughly $ 100 billion a year ) to green- energy r & d , i believe that we could bring about game- changing breakthroughs not just for solar power , but also for a wide variety of other alternati ve- energy technologies .
this belief in the potential of technological progress strikes some climate activists as naïve or even delu sional .
but is it really ?
consider one of the mirac les of the modern age – the personal computer .
these devices didn ’ t become household items because governments subsidized purchases or forced up the price of ty pe writers and slide rules .
no , what happened is that , largely as a result of the space race , the united states government poured lots of money into r & d for solid - state physics and electronics engineering . the resulting breakthroughs not only got ne il arm strong to the moon in 1969 , but also made it possible for apple to introduce the first mac in 1976 and ibm to de but the first pc five years later .
we can do the same for clean energy .
forget about subsidizing inefficient technologies or making fossil fuels too expensive to use . instead , let ’ s fund the basic research that will make green energy too cheap and easy to resist .
afghanistan is lost without better governance
as president obama apparently made clear in his late night meeting with president hamid karzai , no matter what other progress is made , america and its allies can not succeed in afghanistan unless the afghan government succe ed s — and that government is moving in the wrong direction .
until this changes , all other efforts will ultimately be in vain and current levels of international engagement with afghanistan will become un justifiable .
the united states and its afghan and nato allies have demonstrated unmistakable progress in afghanistan this year .
the ongoing mar ja campaign , the arrest of mul lah abdu l gh ani bar ad ar and two taliban `` shadow governors '' in pakistan , and the recent drone strike hitting top leaders of the al qaed a- affiliated ha qq ani network are all clear steps in the right direction .
president obama has defined america 's goals in afghanistan as denying al qaeda a safe haven , reversing the taliban 's momentum , and helping the country 's security forces and government `` take lead responsibility for afghanistan ’ s future . ''
to this end , obama launched an 18- month military `` surge '' with the backing of other nato member countries , to be followed by the beginning of withdrawal .
to achieve these goals in such a short time , nato and its afghan partners must overcome three enormous obstacles .
first , they must fight far more successfully against the taliban to create space for rebuilding and possible negotiation .
second , they must convince pakistan to begin actively opposing the afghan taliban and denying them the safe haven and support they currently receive in pakistan .
third , they must support the emergence of a legitimate afghan government that is not , unlike the current government , seen as corrupt and in effec tual by its citizens .
because the nato strategy 's success requires significant progress on each of these fronts , even the current preliminary signs of military progress and in pakistan 's relations with the afghan taliban will be for n aught if afghanistan 's government can not establish its legitimacy domestically .
recent efforts by president hamid karzai ’ s administration to limit its public accountability demonstrate that the afghan government in its current form lacks either the capacity or the willingness to do so .
for at least a year prior to the august 2009 elections , nato officials recognized that ordinary afghans ' disg ust with their government 's massive corruption was among the taliban 's most effective recruitment tools .
at that time , these officials argued that the elections would give afghanistan ’ s leaders a clear mandate for reform .
the deeply discredited elections put an end to those hopes .
the original flaw of the 2009 elections was structural . there was no voter list , and so it was nearly impossible to prevent ballo t- stu ff ing .
the body empowered to conduct the vote , the independent election commission , was run by commissioners all appointed by and partial to one candidate , karzai .
one institution , the electoral complaints commission — a hybrid afghan - international oversight body with a majority vote controlled by united nation s- appointed commission er s — retained its credibility throughout the process .
only the presence of the ec c , particularly its international commissioners , and the hope that it would ensure at least some fairness into the process prevented the electoral controversy from erup ting into open conflict .
as flawed as the elections were and as contentious as the outcome ultimately was , the situation would have been far worse without the ec c .
after the election , many hoped that karzai would recognize the need to build a more accountable government to help secure both afghanistan 's future and the future of international military and financial support .
in a high-profile speech in london this past january , karzai pledged to make progress in fighting corruption and promoting government accountability .
instead , the opposite appears to be happening .
since his london speech , karzai has actively opposed efforts to attack official corruption , sought to appoint war lords to his cabinet , failed to promote civil society , and weakened processes aimed at increasing the representation of women in parliament .
to make matters worse , karzai issued a decre e on february 13 permitting him to appoint all of the ec c 's members , a measure clearly designed to strengthen the patronage system and weaken opposition movements ’ prospects in future elections and a strong demonstration that his administration is not serious about establishing greater government accountability .
nato and the international community must do everything possible to foster accountable government at all levels in afghanistan .
although afghanistan 's government does not need to be fully centralized , afghanistan can not succeed if the central government fails .
for this reason , unless the karzai government changes course there is no justification for nato member countries to risk the lives of their soldiers and commit other valuable resources to the struggle in afghanistan if the afghan government ’ s corruption and legitimacy deficit make current progress unsustainable and achievement of nato ’ s goals impossible .
karzai is free to lead his country as he pleas es , but america and its allies can not and should not maintain their current levels of commitment unless his government can establish itself as a viable partner .
no exit from afghanistan
new delhi – despite frequent turmoil and repeated inv asions , afghanistan has remained virtually unchanged for centuries .
nearly 120 years ago , winston churchill described the fu tility of warfare in the region : “ financially it is ru inous .
morally it is w icked .
militarily it is an open question , and politically it is a blunder . ”
churchill ’ s assessment undoubtedly rings true for many united states and nato officials today , as they attempt to coordinate an exit from america ’ s longest overseas combat commitment in history .
while the war in afghanistan may have resulted in fewer american deaths and injuries than previous us wars , the human cost remains substantial – especially after factor ing in afghan deaths and injuries .
moreover , trillions of dollars have been wasted , with the few positive effects of the us-led military intervention already beginning to fade , and its many adverse consequences continuing to destabilize the region .
us president barack obama is now trying to negotiate a new “ status of forces ” agreement with the afghan government in order to establish how many us troops will remain in afghanistan and the terms of their deployment .
but the reality is that the us is s cutt ling from a conflict that it has lost , just as it did in vietnam almost 40 years ago , leaving the beleaguered population to its own devices .
rather than admit defeat , us officials are resorting to diversi onary rhetoric .
for example , speaking recently in new delhi , secretary of state john kerry said that the key to stabilizing afghanistan is to build a “ new silk road ” connecting it with central asia – a cynical contr iv ance apparently aimed at clo aking america ’ s failure in illusions of future commerce .
kerry ’ s insistence that the us is not withdrawing , but “ drawing down , ” is a similarly transparent attempt at manipulation .
to be sure , america ’ s presence in afghanistan has spawned important regional linkages ; unfortunately , they are not the kind that support economic renewal .
the last decade of war and lawlessness has facilitated the taliban ’ s proliferation across pakistan and afghanistan , leading the taliban to consider itself an inde fati g able force – a belief that could lead its leaders to undercut any progress toward stability .
in fact , the taliban ’ s confidence already drove them to disrupt plans for peace talks with the afghan government .
after agreeing to establish an office in qatar exclusively to host the talks , in june the taliban opened a quasi- embassy of the “ islamic emir ate of afghanistan . ”
the afghan government responded by su spending talks with the taliban , as well as the stat us- of- forces negotiations with the us .
pakistan recommends seeking an alter nate ven ue for the negotiations with the taliban , rather than abandoning reconciliation efforts altogether .
this bodes well for the resumption of talks , given that pakistan played a leading role in facilitating the taliban ’ s emergence and is now home to the afghan taliban ’ s ruling council , including its leader , mul lah om ar , along with the pakistani taliban .
india ’ s former ambassador to afghanistan , viv ek kat ju  , is confident that afghan president hamid karzai ’ s anger at the taliban ’ s gambit in qatar will not delay negotiations for long .
( indeed , karzai has reportedly already met with taliban representatives for secret talks aimed at re starting the stalled peace initiative . )
kat ju  attributes the talks ’ inevitable resumption to america ’ s “ strategic desperation , ” which is so acute that the us would be unlikely even to follow through on kerry ’ s pledge to call off the talks if any link to al qaeda were found .
after all , the us has already accepted the taliban ’ s unrealistic assurances that it will not use afghanistan as a base from which to “ fom ent trouble ” – that is , execute terrorist attacks – elsewhere .
fortunately for the us , the taliban is no longer a homogeneous group .
a decade of running and hiding from un rel enting surveillance and targeted drone attacks has caused the movement to spl in ter .
yet , as the security expert sa j jan m. go hel has observed , “ the displaced and disillusioned taliban youth of today ” have “ found sol ace and purpose in an extremely radical interpretation of islam . ”
the taliban may no longer be a unified force , but they clearly remain a dangerous one .
all of these developments have put india in a difficult position .
following america ’ s military withdrawal , afghanistan will most likely revert to pre- war conditions ; pakistan will revive state-sponsored terrorism against india ; and extremism will spill into the indian state of jam mu  and kashmir .
in order to make the best of a grim situation , india must be prepared to protect its own interests at all costs .
after all , as the us extr ic ates itself from its afghan quagmire , its own national interests will continue to trump all other considerations .
but china , pakistan , and iran also have their own important national-security interests in afghanistan that each will now do their utmost to guarantee .
so , while us troops may be leaving afghanistan , an end to the violence spawned by america ’ s war remains nothing more than a distant dream – especially for afghanistan ’ s south asian neighbors .
afghanistan ’ s customary angu ish
far ah , afghanistan – when the problems ridd ling afghan society are listed – violence , insecurity , corruption , religious fundamentalism – one dominating factor is usually left out : the influence of customary law .
in afghanistan , there are three principal legal references : constitutional law , the koran , and the system of customary law known as far hang , the most dominant and stric test version of which is called pash tun wal i ( the way of the pash tun s ) .
originally an ancient honor code , far hang ensures the dominance of the oldest male of any household , followed by married sons , un married sons , and grand sons , then wives ( with the youngest at the bottom ) .
collective decisions are taken by patri arch s in councils called j ir gas , where all have to be in agreement .
this agreement includes including collaborating or not with the taliban , cooperating with the coalition forces , accepting or refusing pop py eradication in a village .
everything else is left to patri arch al discretion . here , no one will intervene except to reinforce the application of the patri arch 's rights – say , in st oning a supposedly way ward girl , or turning a blind eye to so-called “ honor killings ” of women .
every act of an afghan male ’ s life is integrated in a form of reciprocity , in which nothing is free .
mel mas tia , the basic ten et of hospit ality means “ i will give you shelter if you ask me to , even if you are a fu g itive murder er ; but , in exchange , you fight my battles . ”
this sense of customary obligation is why so many of president hamid karzai ’ s cronies remain in place and taliban leaders remain safe .
women are excluded from collective decision-making , as they are mere objects .
girls are literally sold upon marriage ( the father is paid money for his daughter ’ s labor and reproductive capacity ) and join their husband ’ s household .
the younger the girl , the higher the price .
marriage , especially in the provinces , is routinely consum m ated on pre- pu bes cent bodies .
yet women are precious in their own way .
a family ’ s principal “ cultural capital ” is its honor , which is ensured by denying women any opportunity to highlight male failings and therefore tar nish clan respec tability .
as a result , women must be strictly sec lu ded and made invisible when in public , for they are personally responsible for the desire that they could ign ite in schools , hospitals , parks , or markets .
the all- covering bur q a ensures sufficient anonymity to permit women a certain amount of freedom in public space .
every female simultaneously carries her father ’ s and her husband ’ s honor , and will sto ically submit to all forms of violence committed in its name .
this may mean dying in childbirth rather than risking the “ dis honor ” of giving birth in a public place , a hospital , in front of strangers .
going to court is practically un heard of , as it would mean ren ouncing family practices .
from the male point of view , resorting to outside police or judicial intervention would sign ify an inability to fight one ’ s own battles – an admission of defeat and a symbolic castr ation .
this helps explain the intense corruption present in afghan courts , where “ honor ” can be re deemed by br ibing a judge to have a rap ist or murder er released .
as violence is strictly a private matter , relinqu ishing justice to state institutions could be an unacceptable humiliation .
it has become more rigorous in it s applications due to the influence of militant islam , which seeks to use religious texts to legitimize escalating brutality , especially against women .
however , far hang and privatized violence are precisely what mohammad sought to ban through kor anic law , which went beyond the personal domain and instituted a code that gave some rights to women .
for example , while the koran allows for a measure of female inheritance , tribal cust om does not author ize it , which explains the popularity of tribal councils to resolve inheritance problems and che at women out of their rights .
similarly , whereas the koran requires four eye wit nesses as proof of adul tery , mere suspicion of some unregulated , potentially sexual conduct by a woman warr ants st oning under customary law .
yet an awareness of alternatives is se eping in through the media , even in remote provinces .
iranian films and the much loved indian tv ser i als , not to mention the occasional american film , influence peoples ' expectations .
add to that the experience of having lived abroad as refugees in pakistan and iran .
girls know that there are options to an unacceptable way of life : women are increasingly demanding more from life than what cust om ord ains .
this is especially true for those who have lived in iran , a totally muslim environment that allows women the freedom to study and work as well as access to adequate healthcare and family planning .
once back in rural afghanistan , forced into brutal marri ages , many desperate women – especially re tur ne es from iran – resort to self- im mol ation .
violence and murder of women are on the increase , perpetr ated by men who feel that these alternatives pose a threat to their authority .
the west imag ines that religion is the central issue in afghanistan .
but the heart of the matter is the preservation of ancient patri arch al rights that go back to bi bl ical times , reform at ted to fit the demands of globalized capitalism .
governments and international aid organizations have failed to take into consideration the role of far hang , perhaps because the power of un written law remains largely inconceivable in the west .
but afghanistan can not begin to solve its many problems until it crimin alizes the privatized violence of this antiqu ated code .
afghanistan ’ s drug- friendly environment
afghanistan ’ s president hamid karzai has stepped up international fund raising efforts in recent weeks , seeking a fresh package of military and reconstruction aid from the united states , together with stronger strategic guarantees .
but karzai ’ s relationship with his sponsors has begun to sour , in part owing to charges that his government has failed to stop the resurgence of afghanistan ’ s huge opium trade .
underlying the opium trade issue is a security threat of another kind , one overlooked since the us-led invasion toppled the taliban regime in 2001 , despite the grave risk it poses to afghanistan ’ s long-term stability , and that of the region .
in countries like afghanistan , where 80 % of the population lives on what they grow and many communities live far from any water source , environmental damage can be both economically devastating and politically momentous .
that lesson should have been absorbed and understood , not least by american strategists , long before the taliban ’ s fall .
after all , deser tification and deforestation helped fuel the rise , two decades earlier , of the maoist guer illa group s end ero lum in os o ( shining path ) in peru .
s end ero , which supplemented its income with drug production and timber smuggling , deliberately chose dr ought- weakened and de for ested mountain villages as the strong hold of its insurgency .
similarly , the maoist insurgency in nepal , which has claimed 10,000 lives , explo its the desperation of mountain villagers hit by fl ash floods – the result of deforestation higher up .
no maoist group could ever gain a to e hold in afghanistan ’ s par ched pashtun south ( these were , after all , people who , b are - k nuc k led , sm ashed the soviets ) .
but the taliban ’ s rapid rise in the 1990 ’ s was inextricably linked to the failure of irrigation systems .
villagers whose crops sh ri vel ed and whose livestock died in a prolonged drought saw joining the taliban as an economic opportunity .
had there been more irrigation , the taliban ’ s gains might have been far less impressive .
the taliban are now an increasingly spent force , but lack of water reinforced the logic of opium production across its former strong holds in the south .
without serious investment in irrigation , including construction of reservo irs to make use of the snow fall in the hindu kus h , and in new cash crops such as sa ff ron and rose oil , afghanistan ’ s drift toward nar co- statehood will continue , with all the instability that this implies .
clear- cutting of old growth forests in the mountains bordering pakistan may prove as problematic .
agriculture there has been damaged by the cutting of wal nu t , ap ric ot , and mul ber ry trees for winter fuel , and by a failure to re plant pop l ar , wil low , and tam aris k – the trees that hold fragile me ad ows in place .
these sorts of trees can be restored , given a concerted campaign and investment in nur series to produce local varieties .
loss of the ancient c ed ar , p ine , f ir , and o ak forests on the slop es above is another matter .
this year ’ s snow mel t caused land sli des and flooding – a warning of more soil erosion and destruction of arable land to come ; hundreds died and thousands lost their livelihoods .
fore str y has always been a problem in afghanistan .
in 1960 , the united nations food and agriculture organization spoke of wasteful lo gging practices , such as “ head - sk id ding ” ( in which a lo g is rolled down hill , ri pping up plants and soil ) .
aerial photo graph ers were called in , and a large budget was set aside .
but , in 1976 , the fa o admitted in a new plan that forest and watershed management activities had “ turned out to be quite limited . ”
the 1976 plan called for sustainable lo gging and basic for est- fire control , but war intervened , costing afghanistan half its forest cover .
up to 60 % of the old growth forest in n ang ah ar , the second largest opi um- producing province , may have been cut during the war years .
mu j ah ed in factions and later the taliban exported stands of fin e- gra ined c ed ar by the truc k load from n ang ah ar and surrounding provinces to pakistan , often in return for arms .
illegal lo gging continues today , with only in effec tual efforts made to stop it .
at the current rate , afghanistan ’ s old growth forest could vanish within a decade .
the un acknowledges the problem but is ( rightly ) unwilling to risk sending fore str y experts into a tribal region where american and allied troops venture only in ar mored con vo ys .
safety concerns and cost also limit intervention by international conservation organizations .
a new initiative called the green corps includes 300 forest r angers charged with stopping illegal lo gging , and the ministry hopes to boost their numbers within a year . but the initiative is unlikely to have much effect .
illegal lo gging cre ws number 200 or more .
they have chain sa ws and trucks . they are armed and work with the backing of drug and emer al d smugglers – and often of local officials .
the price of plan k c ed ar in lahore is incentive enough to corrupt , or kill , any green corps men brave enough to stand in their way .
environmental issues are of paramount importance in marginal countries because their impact on human survival is immediate and direct .
the inadequate response to pressing questions of natural resource management , whether of water or trees , merely strengthens the hands of opium dealers and mal contents in what is already the most disaffected and sensitive part of afghanistan – the clear-cut mountain slop es where intelligence officers believe osama bin laden is most likely hol ed up .
afghanistan ’ s feminist revolution
on april 16 , more than 300 afghan i women – many of them students – marched together in kabul in protest of a new law passed by parliament that would impose a series of tali ban -like restrictions on women .
the law would permit mar ital rape , limit women ’ s movements – say , for work or study – without male permission , and even make it illegal for a woman to refuse to dress as her husband wishes .
the women , facing a crowd of furious men calling them “ wh or es ” and other ep i the ts , marched two miles under a rain of abuse and delivered their petition against the law to legislators .
both houses of parliament had approved the law , and president hamid karzai signed it .
the law now affects only the shia minority , but threatens to affect pending legislation that could restrict the rights of non- shia women as well .
in the west , the counter point to the notion of woman as property has been a highly individu alistic demand for personal autonomy – decision-making based primarily on a woman ’ s own wishes , rather than as wife , mother , community member , or wor ship per .
but , while some western feminist insights may be useful to afghan i women and other women in the developing world as they resist certain forms of male oppression , we should not assume – as western femin ists often have – that our job is to pro sel y ti ze “ our ” feminism .
on the contrary , the feminism expressed by women such as these afghan i hero ines should educate us in the west about our own shortcomings .
the core theory with which emerging femin ists in more traditional and religious societies are working is far different from that of western feminism – and in some ways far more profound and humane .
in india , for example , femin ists articulated to me a vision of women ’ s equality that was family- centered rather than self- centered , and that valued service to community rather than personal grati fication .
they did not see their struggle as a cultural or ideological clash between men and women , but rather as a very practical effort to live free from violence and sexual assault , forced child marriage and br ide - burning , and legal exclusion from parity .
the emerging consensus in india in support of greater rights and freedoms for women , while certainly causing some upheaval and adjustment ( especially within the growing middle classes ) has not yet – and might never – poison the basic trust and warm th between men and women .
nor does it seem likely to emulate the spl inter ed , individu alized , sol itary society – and the commodi fied sexual revolution – that western , self- based feminism reflects .
this version of feminism – the notion that women can claim equality and still have a valued role in the home , prize family above all , and view rights in the context of community and spir itu ality – seems like a much-needed correc tive to some of western feminism ’ s shortcomings .
ideally , men ’ s drive for progress in the developing world would also evolve , uniting the idea of the autonomous self with support for family , community , and other ties , and western men would learn from this as well .
moreover , intellectually , these women remind us that western feminism did not have to evolve the way it did , and can still change and grow to embrace a more satisfying and humane definition of equality .
sim one de beau vo ir , whose sem inal book the second sex laid the groundwork for post-war western feminism , was an exist enti alist who was neither a wife nor a mother nor a woman of faith .
so her work naturally pos ited female freedom in a secular , sol itary , and individu alistic context , in which “ freedom ” means pure autonomy rather than integration within a whole – comprising family , community , and even god – on equal terms .
the good news for all women , east and west , is that president karzai , under intense international criticism – and not just western criticism – changed the law less than one week after the march .
this global upro ar is a testament to how three decades of western feminist challenges to leadership have changed the world for the better .
but our ( western ) moment of feminist leadership is over now – for good reasons .
we know by now what our problems are as women in the west , and we know the blueprint for solving them .
what we lack now is not analysis , but the organizational and political will to do so .
so the leadership role is shifting to women in the developing world .
their agenda is more pressing , and their problems , frankly , far more serious than ours , which makes it much more urgent for them to develop theories appropriate to the challenges they face .
if one of those courageous afghan women who marched in kabul wrote – as i hope she or one of her sist ers in the developing world is doing right now – the sem inal text for the next 50 years on non-western feminism , it would no doubt be equ al ity- driven and practical .
and perhaps , in its likely view of the world as being more than the sum of consuming , competing autonom ies , or gender warfare , it would be a valuable challenge to tru isms that we western femin ists – and the men who love us – have thought we had to take for granted .
afghanistan ’ s opium war
when nato leaders meet for their summit in rig a at the end of this month , there will be a ghost at the fe ast : afghanistan ’ s opium .
afghanistan is in danger of falling back into the hands of terrorists , insurgents , and criminals , and the multi- bil lion-dollar opium trade is at the heart of the country ’ s malaise .
indeed , nato ’ s top general , james jones , has called drugs the “ ach illes heel ” of afghanistan .
this year ’ s record harvest of 6 , 100 tons of opium will generate more than $ 3 billion in illicit revenue – equivalent to almost half of afghanistan ’ s gdp .
profits for drug traffickers downstream will be almost 20 times that amount .
opium money is corrup ting afghan society from top to bottom .
armed con vo ys transport raw opium around the country un hindered .
sometimes even army and police vehicles are involved .
guns and bribes ensure that the trucks are w av ed through check points .
opi ates flow freely across borders into iran , pakistan , and other central asian countries .
the opium fields of wealthy land owners are un touched , because local officials are paid off .
major traffickers never come to trial because judges are br ibed or intimid ated .
senior government officials take their cut of opium revenues or bribes in return for keeping quiet .
per vers ely , some provincial governors and government officials are themselves major players in the drug trade .
as a result , the afghan state is at risk of takeover by a malign coalition of extremists , criminals , and opportun ists .
opium is cho king afghan society .
within afghanistan , drug addiction is rising .
neighbors that used to be transit states for drugs are now major consumers , owing to similar dramatic increases in opium and heroin addiction .
intr aven ous drug use is spreading hiv/aids in iran , central asia , and the former soviet union .
in traditional western european markets , health officials should br ace for a rise in the number of deaths from drug over doses , as this year ’ s bu m per opium crop will lead to higher- pur ity doses of heroin .
what can be done ?
first , the veil of corruption in afghanistan must be lifted .
afghans are fed up with arrogant and well- armed tyco ons who live in man sions and drive top -of- the range merc edes lim ou sin es – this in a country where barely 13 % of the population have electricity and most people must survive on less than $ 200 a year .
it is time for the afghan government to name , shame , and s ack corrupt officials , arrest major drug traffickers and opium land lords , and seize their assets .
donors have trained police and prosecutors and built courts and detention centers .
now it is up to the government to use the judicial system to impose the rule of law .
it will be difficult , but not impossible , to re-establish confidence in the central government .
putting major drug traffickers behind bars at the new maxim um- security prison at pul - i- char ki , near kabul , would be a good start .
of course , afghanistan does not bear sole responsibility for its plight .
the heroin trade would not be booming if western governments were serious about combating drug consumption .
it is a bitter irony that the countries whose soldiers ’ lives are on the line in afghanistan are also the biggest markets for afghan heroin .
furthermore , afghanistan ’ s neighbors must do more to stop insurgents , weapons , money , and chemical precur sors from flowing across their borders into the country .
coalition forces should take a more robust approach to the drug problem .
counter- insurgency and counter- narcotics are two sides of the same coin .
improving security and the rule of law must include destroying the opium trade .
the united nations security council has authorized the international security assistance force to take all necessary measures to fulfill its mandate .
nato troops should be given the green light to help the afghan army fight opium – destroy the heroin labs , dis band the opium baz a ars , attack the opium con vo ys , and bring the big traders to justice .
and they should be given the tools and man power to do the job .
there is no point in trying to win the hearts and minds of major drug traffickers .
farmers are a different story .
forced eradication risks pushing farmers into the hands of extremists , and thus will not lead to the sustainable reduction of opium fields .
indeed , as we have seen in some an dean countries , it can be counter-productive .
therefore , security and development must go hand in hand .
to achieve this , afghanistan needs more development assistance .
international support so far has been generous , but it is still well below per capita equival ents for other post-conflict situations – and the need is much greater .
farmers will be we aned off opium over the long term only if they have sustainable livelihoods .
at the moment , afghanistan ’ s drug lords are prosper ing , and rural communities are suffering .
that situation needs to be reversed .
we must punish the traffickers and reward the farmers .
we can not afford to fail in afghanistan .
recent history has given us graphic evidence of what would happen if we do .
but any solution in afghanistan depends on eliminating its opium .
afghanistan ’ s terror ized women
kabul – recently , the afghan independent human rights commission ( ai hr c ) office in ku do z province reported the rescue of a young woman who had been imprisoned in her in- laws ’ d un ge on for seven months .
fif teen - year-old sa har gul was forced to marry an older man who serves in the afghan army . she was then kept in the d un ge on by her husband ’ s family and brutally tortured for months , because she refused to work as a prostitu te .
over the past ten years , the ai hr c has received more than 19 ,000 complaints related to violence against women .
despite making some progress in investigating the complaints and referring them to the justice system , as well as in raising public awareness about the issue , the challenges remain huge .
since 2002 , many efforts have been made to improve women ’ s lives in afghanistan .
the country has enacted several new laws and established a fairly advanced legal framework to end discrimination against women , including a new law that crimin alizes any act that results in violence against women .
but laws and policies alone are not sufficient to protect women from horrific domestic abuse .
indeed , the gul case is hardly the only well- publicized case .
there was also gul na z , a young woman who was jailed for adul tery after being rap ed by a relative ( she was recently released after a presidential pardon , but may be forced to marry her att acker ) .
the husband of another young woman , a ish a , cut off her n ose and ears when she ran away .
violence against women in afghanistan persists for many reasons . first , the country has inherited a patri arch al tribal tradition that assumes women ’ s infer i ority .
radical groups receive immense support from the large share of the population that opposes women ’ s rights .
the taliban , for example , have consistently used an anti- women policy to appeal to tribal and rural people .
third , family pride and honor are deemed more important than a woman ’ s individual well-being and safety .
for example , if family members beat or abuse a woman , she has few options .
often , her only choice is to remain silent or risk disgrac ing the family .
if she does report the matter to the authorities , the case will almost certainly never be properly investigated , nor the perpetrators ever prosecuted .
gul , for example , complained to the police about her abusive in- laws , but she was returned to the family when some of their influential contacts intervened .
fourth , laws are often arbitr arily applied , and sharia ( islamic law ) frequently takes precedence over civil legislation , resulting in widespread impunity for crimes of violence against women .
for example , in october 2010 , the afghan supreme court ruled that women who run away from home can be charged with prostitu tion , unless they go to the police or an immediate relative 's home . it is this mindset that led to gul ’ s victim ization .
finally , while the taliban lost power ten years ago , discrimination and violence against women has occurred in afghan society for centuries .
thus , despite some progress , public and official sensitivity to violence against women is only slowly emerging .
the afghan government must take several steps to protect women fully .
above all , perpetrators of violence against women should be prosecuted and tried under due process of law .
this will require strengthening the rule of law and ending the prevailing culture of impunity .
that , in turn , requires educating the public further about human rights and women ’ s rights through school textbooks , continuing education courses , and a vigorous media campaign .
it also requires persuading representatives and policymakers to develop policies and allocate budget revenues to combat violence against women , and training police and judges to handle cases of violence against women without def err ing to claims of family honor .
perhaps most importantly , non- constitutional justice systems , such as sharia , must be monitored and checked , if not prohibited altogether .
as for sa har gul , her case must be thoroughly investigated , and the police and judiciary must commit to bringing her tor tur ers to justice .
furthermore , gul ’ s case , and others like it , should be studied in order to understand the roots of such crimes .
until afghanistan ’ s leaders begin to address this problem seriously , our country will continue to bear the sc ar of violence against women on its face .
a flat world and a round ball
with the final stage of the world cup approaching , now is a good opportunity for a mid- tournament ap pra isal .
this year ’ s cup , unlike the previous one in japan and south korea in 2002 , didn ’ t witness any real up sets in the first round .
switzerland and australia surprisingly reached the elimination round , and the asian and african teams disappointed somewhat , with only ghana advancing .
there have been just two ugly matches so far , full of f ou ls , nasty attacks , and unnecessary aggression , as well as numerous yellow and red cards : italy vs. the us , and portugal vs. the netherlands .
otherwise , we ’ re experiencing a wonderful cup in germany , in terms of both s port s manship and the overall atmosphere .
as for germany and the germans , one hardly recognizes one ’ s own country and people .
even mother nature has played along .
after a long winter and a non-existent spring , summer started promptly with the first kick -off – and virtually overnight , germany has fla unted its sunni est and most del ight ful side .
the cup ’ s organization has been exceptional ( as was to be expected ) , with excellent police work giving ho olig ans hardly a chance .
the whole of germany has been celebrating a never-ending party with gu ests from all over the world ( which was not expected ) .
and the german team has put on a wonderful display of heart warming and modern offensive soccer ( which nobody could have expected ! ) .
more importantly , not only in the german team , but also in the country as a whole , a young , cool , la id- back , and care free germany is raising its head – a germany that is cosmopolitan , friendly , and go od- hu mored .
years of bad news appear to have passed the germans by without a trace .
doctors are on strike , taxes are on the rise , the parties in government are ma uling each other , and chancellor angela merkel herself proclaimed in a prominent speech that the country is in disastrous shape .
but the germans , und a unted by it all , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with their newfound friends from all over the world .
the black , red , and gold german tric ol or ador ns the entire country as never before , but almost nowhere are there nationalist under t ones .
in fact , the flags of many nations fly alongside german .
in berlin , as in other large german cities , tax is sport the flags of their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia .
fans don not just their nations ’ flags , but also fant astic cost um es ev oc ative of their home countries ’ colors .
flags are fl own in hope of victory , but also serve to dry the tears of defeat .
in short , germany during the world cup is reminiscent of a sha kes pe are an mid summer night ’ s dream , with a touch of wood stock to bo ot .
outside the stad iums , public scre en ings of the games have become jo y ous mass “ happen ings . ”
and how is the soccer ?
this world cup demonstrates three main developments that the sport has undergone .
first , europe and south america are more dominant than four years ago and remain the unchallenged great powers of international soccer .
so we must hope that the world cup in south africa in 2010 will finally bring greater global parity .
second , international soccer is witnessing the advent of a new generation .
spain , argentina , and germany , to name but a few countries , have put forward very young teams that have played an impressive game .
on the french , english , and portuguese teams , too , it is the young players that have sh one – despite the continuing presence of z id ane , bec kh am , and fig o .
even the brazilian squ ad is looking more aggressive and likely to score with young players like rob in h o and jun in h o than with their aging champions from 2002 .
this generational change is accelerated by a third development .
at the top international level , soccer has become faster and more athle tic , and the top teams can shrink space on the field more effectively .
a team that is unable to keep going at full speed for the full 90 ( or more ) minutes , switch from defense to offense quickly with the whole team , and maintain control of the ball to restrict their opponents ' movements won ’ t stand much of a chance .
here , soccer parallels today ’ s globalized markets , which make similar restructuring of national economies necessary .
unlike economic globalization , however , it remains to be seen whether this new , fast- pac ed style of soccer will prevail ( after all , the young blood of spain lost to the old boys of france ) .
the sport and its fans will certainly profit if it does .
for now , we have a world cup filled with soccer that is being shaped by a new , young generation both on and off the playing field – ligh t- hear ted , en thr alling , and beautiful to watch .
germany urgently needs this kind of optimism , because , unfortunately , two universal principles will continue to apply in the future : first , the winter will return , and , second , the ball is round and the next game is always the most difficult .
a free lunch for america
berkeley – former us treasury secretary lawrence summers had a good line at the international monetary fund meetings this year : governments , he said , are trying to treat a broken an k le when the patient is facing organ failure .
summers was criticizing europe ’ s focus on the second- order issue of greece while far gra ver imbalances – between the eu ’ s north and south , and between reckless banks ’ creditors and governments that failed to regulate properly – worsen with each passing day .
but , on the other side of the atlantic , americans have no reason to feel smu g .
summers could have used the same metaphor to criticize the united states , where the continued focus on the long-run funding dilemmas of social insurance is suc king all of the oxygen out of efforts to deal with america ’ s macroeconomic and unemployment crisis .
the us government can currently borrow for 30 years at a real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rate of 1 % per year .
suppose that the us government were to borrow an extra $ 500 billion over the next two years and spend it on infrastructure – even un produc tively , on projects for which the social rate of return is a meas ly 25 % per year .
suppose that – as seems to be the case – the simple keynesian government- expenditure multiplier on this spending is only two .
in that case , the $ 500 billion of extra federal infrastructure spending over the next two years would produce $ 1 trillion of extra output of goods and services , generate approximately seven million pers on- years of extra employment , and push down the unemployment rate by two percentage points in each of those years .
and , with tighter labor-force attachment on the part of those who have jobs , the unemployment rate thereafter would likely be about 0.1 percentage points lower in the indefinite future .
the impressive gains don ’ t stop there .
better infrastructure would mean an extra $ 20 billion a year of income and social welfare .
a lower unemployment rate into the future would mean another $ 20 billion a year in higher production .
and half of the extra $ 1 trillion of goods and services would show up as consumption goods and services for american households .
in sum , on the benefits side of the equation : more jobs now , $ 500 billion of additional consumption of goods and services over the next two years , and then a $ 40 billion a year flow of higher incomes and production each year thereafter .
so , what are the likely costs of an extra $ 500 billion in infrastructure spending over the next two years ?
for starters , the $ 500 billion of extra government spending would likely be offset by $ 300 billion of increased tax collec tions from higher economic activity .
so the net result would be a $ 200 billion increase in the national debt .
american taxpayers would then have to pay $ 2 billion a year in real interest on that extra national debt over the next 30 years , and then pay off or roll over the entire $ 200 billion .
the $ 40 billion a year of higher economic activity would , however , generate roughly $ 10 billion a year in additional tax revenue .
using some of it to pay the real interest on the debt and saving the rest would mean that when the bill comes due , the tax- financed reserves generated by the healthier economy would be more than enough to pay off the additional national debt .
in other words , taxpayers win , because the benefits from the healthier economy would more than compensate for the costs of servicing the higher national debt , enabling the government to provide more services without raising tax rates .
households win , too , because they get to buy more and nic er things with their incomes .
companies win , because goods and workers get to use the improved infrastructure .
the unemployed win , because some of them get jobs . and even bond investors win , because they get their money back , with the interest for which they contracted .
so what is not to like ?
nothing .
how , you might ask , can i say this ?
but there are two things different about today .
first , the us labor market is failing so badly that expanded government spending carries no resource cost to society as a whole .
second , bond investors are being really stupid .
in a world in which the s & p 500 has a 7 % annual earnings yield , nobody should be happy holding a us government 30-year inflation-adjusted bond that yields 1 % per year .
that six- percentage-point difference in anticipated real yield is a measure of bond investors ’ extraordinary and irrational panic .
they are willing to pay 6 % per year for “ safety . ”
right now , however , the us government can manufacture “ safety ” out of thin air merely by printing bonds .
the government , too , would then win by poc ke ting that 6 % per year of value – though 30 years from now , bondholders who feel like winners now would most likely look at their portfolios ’ extraordinarily poor performance of over 2011- 20 41 and r ue their strategy .
a french presidential prim er
the late british prime minister har old wilson used to qu ip that “ a week is a long time in politics . ”
so , in the 30 or so weeks between now and the next french presidential election , any prediction made today could be reversed , and reversed again , before the vote .
but two candidates have emerged as clear and constant favor ites in opinion polls : nicolas sarkozy on the right and s é gol è ne royal on the left .
in fact , they have more in common than meets the eye , for each speaks of a rupture with the past while incar n ating a form of continuity .
for sarkozy , “ rupture ” reflects both mund an ely tactical and deeply personal choices .
the 12 years of jacques chirac ‘ s presidency , together with france ’ s tradition of alter nation in power , suggests a victory for the left .
positioning himself as the candidate who represents a sharp break with today ’ s unpopular politics is the only means to escape that fate .
this is reflected in sarkozy ’ s openly pro- american stance – an act of political courage in a france where anti-americanism is running high .
sarkozy ’ s message is that chirac and vil le pin were right in substance to oppose america ’ s military adventure in iraq , but that their style was disastr ously wrong .
thus , his deep admiration for “ american values , ” while sincere , implies no embrace of president george w. bush .
it also reas sures the french business community , which was shocked by dominique de vil le pin ’ s fl am boy ant opposition to the united states when he was chirac ’ s foreign minister .
at home , sarkozy has aimed his message particularly at the young , issuing a patriotic call to the values of work and discipline , a counter- revolutionary revolution .
the revolution that must be overcome is that of may 1968 , whose leaders and supporters , according to sarkozy , may have lost politically to de gaulle , but deeply weakened france over the succeeding decades with their emphasis on “ false values . ”
by contrast , rebel ling against one ’ s parents ’ generation and re discovering traditional moral stances will save france – a message that is highly applicable to issues , such as education and immigration , that may dominate the electoral campaign .
in the case of royal , the meaning of “ rupture ” is both more obvious and more visible .
she is seeking to become the first woman president of the french republic .
to achieve her goal , she prefers to emphasize her “ essence , ” thereby countering sarkozy ’ s stress on his record as a “ do er . ”
her appeal to voters is simple : “ i am a woman , and you have never tried a woman , so be modern and try one now . ”
hiding behind the origin ality ( in french presidential politics ) of her gender , royal has avoided spec ifying a detailed program .
when challenged by inqu is itive journalists demanding greater precision about her policy agenda , her highly effective line of defense ( so far ! ) has been : “ you would not dare to ask me such a question if i were not a woman ! ”
in foreign policy , one can only guess what her priorities would be .
as far as europe is concerned , she seems as “ agn os tic ” as sarkozy , who , like her , incar n ates a new generation of “ post- european ” leaders .
in terms of values , royal , too , seems to represent a rupture with may 1968 , with her emphasis on discipline and family .
according to public opinion polls , royal is the clear favorite of the left and the only candidate able to defeat sarkozy .
her support is particularly strong among women voters .
for the socialist party , which is eager to return to power but has not yet recovered from the humiliating defeat of lion el jos pin in the first round of the presidential election in 2002 , the question is whether it can afford to resist the wave of favorable public opinion behind royal .
in the opinion of royal ’ s many opponents among socialist leaders and militants , the dominance of the media in the political process is leading to mediocr ity : the qualities required to be elected are becoming nearly incompatible with those needed to govern .
according to royal ’ s socialist critics , the “ holl y wo odi zation ” of politics from which she benefits entails a new approach in which leaders follow and followers lead .
but the same criticism can be directed at sarkozy .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’ s gaul list side for sarkozy and with françois mitterrand for royal – as much as rupture .
royal openly claims mit ter and ’ s legacy as she search es for legitimacy , while sarkozy ’ s rejection of chirac ’ s legacy has more to do with form than substance .
to a large extent , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less .
when the voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac faced the o dious nationalist jean- marie le pen in the second round .
as in 2002 , the winner next year will be wh om ever the electorate dis likes or fears less .
but one way or the other , personalities will prevail over programs .
a fresh start for china and japan ?
ed mon ton – chinese president hu jintao will make a high-profile visit to japan from may 6- 10 , making him the second chinese head of state ever to travel there .
the trip is being carefully managed by both countries , and is being watched closely around the world , with good reason : sino- japanese relations over the past decade have been turbulent , to say the least .
when hu ’ s predecessor , jiang z em in , traveled to japan ten years ago , bilateral relations were deteriorating : china was unhappy with the japanese government ’ s refusal to extend the same apology offered to south korea for past aggression ; japan was worried about a rising china and thus turning more confrontational .
the japanese media ’ s coverage of the visit was overwhelmingly negative , and it was remembered as a public-relations disaster .
hu succeeded jiang in 2002 , almost as former prime minister jun ich iro koizumi was coming to power in japan , and encouraged “ new thinking ” in china ’ s japan policy , which would entail moving away from historical grievances and promoting better ties .
but , instead of accepting china ’ s ol ive branch , koizumi implemented a more nationalistic agenda , including annual visits to the yasukuni shine , which is regarded as a symbol of japanese militarism by japan ’ s neighbors .
his hard- line approach isolated japan and anger ed china , leading to an out burst of anti-japanese demonstrations in china in 2005 .
but both japan and china recognize that further tension will serve neither country ’ s long-term interests .
koizumi ’ s successors , prime ministers shinzo abe and yas u o fu k ud a , have sought to engage china over the past two years , with summits in beijing and a successful visit by chinese premier wen jiabao to japan last year .
hu ’ s trip is likely follow the example set by wen .
he will emphasize common strategic interests , highlight mutual economic benefits , generate positive public opinion , and promote further exchanges .
japan is not only one of china ’ s largest trade and investment partners , it is also the most powerful neighbor with which china wants to be on good terms , partly to show case that china ’ s rise is not a threat to asia and the rest of the world .
japan , whose economic recovery is attributable largely to its deepening ties with china in recent years , is also eager to demonstrate that it regards china not as a threat but as an opportunity , as least in economic terms .
the two governments will certainly use hu ’ s visit to celebrate the anniversary with new programs designed to enhance bilateral understanding and friendship .
but , unlike three decades ago , when the japanese regarded china as one of their most favored countries , public opinion in both countries nowadays regist ers more negative feelings than positive ones .
behind the s miles , the pol ite interactions , and the cau tiously wor ded diplomatic language , strong under currents of suspicion remain .
one problem is the disputed waters of the east china sea .
despite new joint projects in energy efficiency and environmental protection , areas in which china ranks japan as the best per former among industrialized countries , the two sides remain in bitterly divided over these territorial waters , which contain huge potential oil , gas , and other mineral deposits . even after many rounds of talks , no resolution is in sight , and hu ’ s visit is not expected to produce any breakthroughs .
then there are strategic suspicions .
fu k ud a has dropped abe ’ s talk about an “ arch of freedom ” – an effort to forge a bloc with the united states , australia , and india .
but japan remains concerned about china ’ s rapidly modernizing military , while china worries about a potential us-japan containment strategy for china , especially in the case of a crisis in the taiwan stra its .
so , although both sides endorse the idea of a “ mutually beneficial strategic relationship , ” and despite progress bilateral on military exchanges , mutual trust and confidence-building have a long way to go .
moreover , today ’ s “ warm politics , cool economics ” trend is the reverse of the “ cold politics , warm economics ” pattern under koizumi .
last year , japan ’ s committed investment projects in china fell 24 % from 2006 , while actual investment volume decreased by 25 % , partly owing to regulatory changes in china regarding foreign investment .
recent food safety issues , such as the “ poisoned d um pl ings ” cases , have clearly heightened the japanese public ’ s sensitivity about chinese exports .
finally , historical issues could still resur face to cause new problems .
while fu k ud a has made it clear that he will not visit the yasukuni shrine , 160 other parliamentarians paid hom age at the site last month , an indication that conservative forces in japan remain strong and that future prime ministers may not abst ain from visiting yasukuni .
and japan has so far failed to live up to its treaty obligations to clean up between 700,000 and two million chemical weapons that were abandoned in china by the japanese army at the end of world war ii , another potential fl ash point if any of these weapons causes casualties in china .
a fresh start for europe
as europe ’ s leaders gather in portugal to put the fin ishing tou ches on the new , s lim med down , reform treaty , it might be helpful if they all pre tended that the last 50 years of european integration had never taken place .
let ’ s then imagine what europe needs to do to confront its most pressing challenges , especially if it were able to do so without the political constraints of 50 years of eu deal- making and ram shack le institu tion- building .
on top of that , let us make a major leap of imagination and suppose that even though this scenario of the eu at “ year zero ” means we would not have a half-century of intra- european cooperation to draw on , the nations that today make up the eu would nevertheless be keen to adopt far-reaching joint policies .
let ’ s suspend our dis belief , then , and try to imagine what europe could and should be doing to tackle some of the most far-reaching and obst inate policy challenges that will determine whether the next 50 years are as constructive as the last .
or , to put it another way , let ’ s look at our problems in the light of the eu ’ s existing mechanisms and its potential for creating far-reaching new policies , and then let ’ s ask ourselves why the eu isn ’ t realizing its own potential and delivering the goods .
broadly , we see three areas in which europe ’ s policymakers at both the national and eu levels can do better : global challenges where europe could show greater leadership , the creation and strengthening of human capital within the eu and worldwide , and improvement in the effectiveness of the eu ’ s own political machinery .
europe needs a clearer and more recogn iz able global agenda .
it needs to build substantially on its leadership on climate change by adopting much tougher eu goals , and then use its international economic and trade clout to champion new global emissions standards that scientific opinion can accept as meaningful .
on conflict and security issues , europe should be advancing to a new phase in which it takes much clearer and unambiguous positions on issues ranging from nuclear proliferation to sanctions against burma ’ s military regime .
the purpose must be to establish europe as a forceful and fair -minded player on the world stage , rather than as a “ broad church ” in which different view points co- exist .
the aim should be that “ soft power ” instruments like eu development aid and economic partnerships would be linked with a growing sense of political and security outreach to ensure europe is a global player to be reck oned with .
that means , of course , that the eu should seek to widen its transatlantic thinking so that the eu and the united states cooperate more closely on defining – and thus protecting – their common interests in a world where together they account for little more than 10 % of the total population .
these points are far from a blanket criticism of the eu ’ s efforts to create a common foreign and security policy .
building more human capital in europe and worldwide is a crucially important element in future eu activities .
education is by far the most profitable investment europe can make , so it should be launching its most ambitious strategy ever to create a new knowledge dynamic and employment inside the eu while helping to expand greatly education in the world ’ s poorest countries .
europe also must at last grasp the net tle of immigration policy – something that has persistently elu ded generations of political leaders .
agreed eu-wide immigration rules are needed to reconcile shrinking europe ’ s hunger for imported labor with widespread fears of cultural tensions and social unrest .
it won ’ t be easy to create a fairer and more multi- cultural europe , but failure to address this problem openly will carry an even heavier price .
by much the same token , europe ’ s governments should be making a determined new effort to strengthen europeans ’ sense of a shared history and common values .
a stronger european identity is the s ound est basis for creating the more multi- cultural society that demograph ers regard as inevitable .
meanwhile , doubts still sur round the political and institutional machinery the eu will need to realize these and other ambitious goals .
sigh s of relief greeted eu leaders ’ mid- year agreement on a reform treaty aimed at overhauling the union ’ s decision-making mechanisms , but it is still uncertain whether the new pact will survive the ratification process in 27 countries .
we believe , though , that the increased use of qualified majority voting by member governments embodied in the new treaty should also be applied to the ratification process itself .
that way , if a small minority of eu governments prove unable to ratify the treaty , it would not be tor pe do ed the way that its predecessor , the constitutional treaty , was in 2005 .
how to help the african dust bowl
seattle – picture a small farm under a bl az ing hot sky .
an intense drought is afflicting the surrounding region , prospects for the next harvest are bleak , and the financial system lacks the capacity to provide the loans farmers need to get by .
this scenario describes today ’ s southern africa , which is in the grips of an epic drought .
as it happens , it also describes eastern ne br aska in the “ dust bowl ” years of the early 1930s – a period through which my own family lived .
my father , r al ph ra i kes , was the first in his family to graduate from college .
after working for standard oil in california , he stopped by his parents ’ farm on his way to cambridge , massachusetts , where he planned to pursue graduate studies at mit .
he never made it .
he had to stay in ne br aska and help my grandfather save the family farm from the banks , which had already re possessed one-third of the land .
the most important change my father made was in his mindset : he came to think of the farm not as a subsistence operation , but as a family business .
he turned to the university of ne br aska , where he had received his under graduate degree , and acquired hybrid corn and other improved seeds that the university was developing .
then he tracked inputs and weather conditions , which was rarely done at that time .
my father realized that he couldn ’ t go it alone , and that he would need better access to financing .
so he helped guide – first as a customer , and later as an adviser and director – farm credit , a national banking cooperative network , in its efforts to help local farmers weather the dust bowl years .
he also helped found the ne br aska farm business association , which aggreg ated the data that he and his peers collected , so that they could determine best practices .
and he worked together with my mother , al ice , who ran the family pou l try business .
farm credit and the university of ne br aska ’ s labs and green houses emerged out of united states government programs that had been created to improve the agriculture sector ’ s performance .
that sector was under water in 1933 ; with one-quarter of the population living on farms at the time , more investment was needed .
federal farm programs treated farming as a business enterprise , enabling businessmen like my father to prosper .
eigh ty years later , african farmers need to make the same switch , by treating their subsistence operations as family- owned enterprises .
and , like my father during the dust bowl years , they have novel means at their disposal : a wide range of new seeds and other technologies have been developed for african family farms – those with 4-5 ac res or less – to use in the field .
in october , a group of scientists received the world food prize for producing and dissem inating a swe et po ta to variety that adds vitamin a to sub-saharan africans ’ diets , and other new seed varieties are helping farmers survive the harv est- crushing drought .
but , as a recent report from the alliance for a green revolution in africa ( ag ra ) makes clear , government investment must follow the science .
agriculture comprises almost two-thirds of sub-saharan africa ’ s workforce , and in 2003 the african union called for countries to increase their investment in the sector to an ambitious 10 % of all government spending .
only 13 countries answered that call , but their investments – in research and development , services that help farmers take advantage of new research findings , credit and financing initiatives , commodity exchanges , and other marketing efforts – have already paid dividends .
those 13 countries have experienced marked improvements in agricultural production , per capita gdp , and nutrition .
government investment p aves the way for private-sector investment , and it could be a game- changer for african farmers , who have operated at subsistence levels for far too long .
only about 6 % of rural households in sub-saharan africa receive loans from financial institutions .
moreover , almost two-thirds of african farmland soil is missing key nutrients , and many farmers lack the technical knowledge and resources to restore their land ’ s fertility , leaving them unable to take full advantage of new technologies .
african farmers growing new crop varieties are increasing their yields by only 28 % , compared to 88 % for farmers in asia .
my parents made certain that all five of their children gradu ated from college .
like them , farmers everywhere want to ensure that their children lead healthy , prosperous lives ; and they all recognize the importance of education .
the farmers i have met around the world often just want to sell enough extra produce to pay their health bills and put their children through school .
they take advantage of opportunities when they arise , and they position their children to reap larger profits in the future .
one hopes that an american story of economic progress , like that of my family , will soon be an african story , too .
with so many new innovations becoming available , africa ’ s family farmers need their governments to invest in their future .
if they do , that future will look much better than today ’ s du sty and desperate reality .
africa at risk
addis ababa – climate change will hit africa – a continent that has contributed virtually nothing to bring it about – first and hardest .
aside from antar c tica , africa is the only continent that has not industrialized .
indeed , since 1980 ’ s the industrialization that had taken place in africa has by and large been reversed .
africa has thus contributed nothing to the historical accumulation of greenhouse gases through carbon- based industrialization .
moreover , its current contribution is also negligible , practically all of it coming from deforestation and degradation of forests and farmland .
yet climate change will hit africa hardest , because it will crip ple the continent ’ s vulnerable agricultural sector , on which 70 % of the population depends .
all estimates of the possible impact of global warming suggest that a large part of the continent will become dr ier , and that the continent as a whole will experience greater clim atic vari ability .
we know what the impact of periodic droughts have been on the lives of tens of millions of africans .
we can therefore imagine what the impact of a dr ier climate on agriculture is likely to be .
africa will not only be hit hardest , but it will be hit first .
indeed , the long dreaded impact of climate change is already upon us .
the current drought covering much of east africa – far more severe than past droughts – has been directly associated with climate change .
the upcoming climate negotiations ought to address the specific problems of africa and similarly vulnerable poor parts of the world .
this requires , first and most importantly , reducing global warming to the apparently inevitable increase of two degrees celsius , beyond which lies an environmental catastrophe that could be un manageable for poor and vulnerable countries .
second , adequate resources should be made available to poor and vulnerable regions and countries to enable them to adapt to climate change .
climate change , which was largely brought about by the activities of developed countries , has made it difficult for poor and vulnerable countries to fight poverty .
it has created a more hostile environment for development . no amount of money will undo the damage done .
but adequate investment in mitigating the damage could partly resolve the problem .
developed countries are thus morally obliged to pay partial compensation to poor and vulnerable countries and regions to cover part of the cost of the investments needed to adapt to climate change .
various estimates have been made of the scale of investment required by those countries .
one conservative estimate – which has a reasonable chance of being accepted precisely because it is conservative – calls for $ 50 billion per year as of 2015 , increasing to $ 100 billion by 2020 and beyond .
a transitional financing arrangement would be put in place for the period 2010- 2015 .
some argue that developed countries can not come up with such sums , particularly given their current economic challenges .
but no one has so far argued that the cost of damage caused to the development prospects of poor countries and regions is less than the amount of compensation being offered to cover adjustment costs .
the reason is obvious : the damage caused is many times higher than the compensation being requested .
nonetheless , it is argued , whatever the real cost of the damage , developed countries currently can not afford to provide that kind of money .
but we all know that these countries and their national banks were able to spend trillions of dollars in a few months to bail out their bankers , who earned super- profits when the going was good .
when the good times ended , taxpayers and governments were prepared to rescue them and to ensure that they continued to receive their extraordinary bonuses .
if the developed world is able to pay trillions of dollars to clean up its bankers ’ mess , how is it possible that it can not afford to pay billions of dollars to clean up a mess that it created , and that is threatening the survival of whole continents ?
clearly this is not about the availability of resources . it is about the inappropriate priorities in how resources are allocated .
it is about moral values that make it appropriate to rescue bankers , who expect everyone but themselves to pay for the mess they created , and inappropriate to compensate the world ’ s poorest people , whose survival is threatened precisely because of the mess created by developed countries .
i can not believe that people in developed coun ties , when informed about the issues , would support rescuing bankers and oppose partial compensation for poor countries and regions .
i can not believe that they will let such an injustice occur .
if they are not expressing their outrage over the injustice of it all , it can only be because they are inadequately informed .
three humanitarian challenges for africa in 2018
nairobi – in mid- 2017 , when a cholera outbreak in somalia threatened to overwhelm local hospitals , health experts feared the worst .
with crippling drought , malnutrition , and poverty already endemic , an outbreak of deadly diarrhea seemed destined to paraly ze the fragile state . but , despite the dire predictions , institutional paralysis was avoided .
although hundreds died and many more became sick , the collective response managed by governments , ngos , and local communities , including the national red c res cent societies supported by the red cross movement , contained the disease .
but it also serves as a reminder that local capacity is easily inund ated during times of crisis .
while some parts of africa have become self-sufficient in terms of public health , others continue to lean heavily on global aid .
for these areas , partnership is the best means of minimizing risks .
in particular , three key challenges this year are likely to pose the sever est tests of africa ’ s ability to manage humanitarian crises .
the first challenge is violence in the democratic republic of the congo .
last year , conflict in the drc ’ s central kas ai region displaced some 1.4 million people , bringing the total displaced population to 4.1 million – the largest concentration of internal refugees anywhere in africa .
the violence has exacerbated food insecurity , with more than three million people severely under nourished .
unfortunately , the kas ai crisis is expected to worsen in 2018 .
a recent assessment by the red cross society of the drc warns that the number of people displaced will continue to rise , and with a fast- spreading cholera outbreak threatening the region , a coordinated plan of action is urgently needed .
the second challenge this year is somalia ’ s food insecurity , which , according to the famine early warning systems network , is expected to intensify this year .
below- average rainfall in 2017 stunted harv ests , and most regions have not fully recovered .
as humanitarian aid is channeled to the country , efforts must be made to target long-term solutions , such as improving agricultural output , educational access , and economic opportunity .
historically , most aid to the country has been ear marked for emergency relief ; even the collective cholera response was narrowly focused on short-term health .
but somalia desperately needs a more holistic , long-term development strategy .
finally , the very scourge that somalia contained last year will continue to re ar its head elsewhere in the region .
yemen ’ s cholera outbreak is now the largest in history , having already surpassed one million confirmed cases , and , despite years of international assistance , the threat continues to stal k africa .
in the last four decades , african countries reported over three million suspected cholera cases to the world health organization and new cases are cro pping up this year in africa ’ s east - central and southern regions .
fortunately , there is hope that somalia ’ s containment success in 2017 can be replicated , provided that communities and individuals are well aware of the disease and related risks , and that local actors receive the needed resources .
the global task force on cholera control , which seeks to build local and international support for improved health care and sanitation , has published a global roadmap for ending cholera by 2030 .
although that is an ambitious target , it is achievable if international organizations and local governments work together .
natural and man made crises will continue to plague africa , but organizations like mine are working hard to bring about a brighter future through improved capacity building .
to succeed , however , local and international development partners must re orient their thinking ; humanitarian aid alone will not solve africa ’ s myriad challenges .
while money is clearly needed , it must be spent more strategically to improve structural weaknesses that perpetuate instability .
for example , if more funding were devoted to community- level health care projects , local organizations would be better positioned to lead when outbreaks threaten .
put simply , the international development community must do more to invest in grassroots solutions , empowering africans rather than treating them as sub contractors to their own suffering .
not only are local organizations better positioned to navigate complex cultural and linguistic lands cap es ; they also have more to lose if they fail .
last year was devastating for many africans , as millions suffered from drought , hunger , and violence .
but in somalia , a coordinated response to a serious health threat offered new hope for a more secure future .
when local ingenuity and international support align , the cycle of suffering can be broken . for many african countries , the ability to look confidently beyond the next crisis is the first step on the long road to self- reliance .
british prime minister tony blair has declared that the two issues at the center of the g-8 summit this july will be african poverty and global climate change .
these may seem to be distinct issues . in fact , they are linked .
a trip i took to a village in the ti gr e region in northern ethiopia shows why .
one morning , i was taken to a dry ri ver bed at the village ’ s edge .
farmers were di gging a pit in the ri ver bed , down to the water table approximately two meters below ground level .
they explained that until recently this was a per ennial river – one that flows throughout the year – but now the river stops flowing during the dry season .
only when the annual ra ins begin in the summer does water re appear in the river bed .
until then , water- starved communities di g for water , if they can find it and if they can afford to pump it out .
in northern ethiopia , as in much of africa , the rain cycle has changed markedly in recent years .
ethi opian village life has long depended on two crops , one during a short rain in march and april , and the main crop during the long rain in the summer months .
in recent years , the short ra ins have failed entirely , and long ra ins have been erratic .
hunger is omni present .
perhaps half of the children are severely under weight .
much of ar id sub-saharan africa , notably in the sahel ( the region just south of the sahara desert ) , has experienced a pronounced drop in rainfall over the past quarter-century .
this decline coincided with a rise in the surface temperature of the neighboring indian ocean , a hint that the decline in rainfall is in fact part of the longer-term process of man-made global warming .
failures of rainfall contribute not only to fam ines and chronic hunger , but also to the onset of violence when hungry people clash over scarce food and water .
when violence erup ts in water- starved regions such as darfur , sudan , political leaders tend to view the problems in narrow political terms .
if they act at all , they mobilize peacekeepers , international sanctions , and humanitarian aid .
but darfur , like ti gr e , needs a development strategy to fight hunger and drought even more than it needs peacekeepers . soldiers can not keep peace among desperately hungry people .
one course of action must be to help impoverished african regions to “ adapt ” to climate change and to escape the poverty trap .
water- stressed regions like ethiopia and sudan can adapt , at least in part , through improved technologies such as “ dr ip irrigation , ” rain water harv esting , improved water storage facilities , deep wells , and agro- fore str y techniques that make best use of scarce rainfall . better land- management practices ( the re- planting of degraded forests , for example ) can re charge underground water aqu if ers .
poor countries can not afford these technologies on their own .
nor should they have to .
help for poor countries in africa and elsewhere to adapt to climate change should not be described as charity or aid , but rather as compensation for damages being imposed on the poorest people on the planet .
greater help for these countries to escape from extreme poverty has been promised for decades but has not been delivered .
in addition to adapting to climate change , the world must also reduce future risks to the planet by cutting back on emissions of greenhouse gases , which are the source of man-made climate change .
while adaptation to climate change is necessary – because it is already occurring – this is not enough .
if the world fails to mitigate future climate change , the effects of rising temperatures , increasing droughts , more numerous and severe tropical storms , rising sea levels , and a spread of tropical diseases will pose huge threats to the entire planet .
the fam ines in ethiopia and the violence in darfur suggest what can lie ahead .
there are at least three options : shift to non- carbon energy sources such as solar or nuclear energy ; capture and dispose of the carbon dioxide emitted at carbon- based power plants ; econom ize on energy use , for example by shifting to hybrid automobiles and trucks .
most likely , all three of these methods will have to play a role .
the effort to reduce greenhouse gases will require decades of action , but , given the long lead times in overhauling the world ’ s energy systems , we must start now .
rich countries need to lead the way .
it is ironic that the united states , which portr ays itself as a friend of democracy and impoverished countries , gives the smallest share of its gnp in aid among the rich countries , and also refuses to participate in global efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions .
this is especially ironic because african countries like ethiopia stand stead fa stly and bra vely with the us in the fight for freedom and against terrorism , even as they struggle with hunger , disease , and famine .
moreover , countries like ethiopia are making val iant , indeed remarkable , efforts to overcome their problems , despite the lack of adequate , and long- promised , help from the world ’ s richest countries .
africans suffering from hunger and drought , and indeed poor people everywhere , have a right to ask much more of the us and other rich countries .
tony blair is right to call on his rich-country colleagues to follow through on their un fulfilled promises .
capit alizing on africa ’ s demographic dividend
l om é – africa is home to the world ’ s youngest and fastest-growing population .
with as many as 20 million young people poised to join the workforce every year for the next three decades , the continent has an opportunity to shift the balance of local and global growth with a purpose : jobs .
but it is far from inevitable that it will do so .
for african countries to capitalize on this demographic dividend , the future workforce must be educated , trained , and have adequate employment opportunities .
putting all the pieces in place will not be easy .
these are uncertain times for the global economy .
trade tensions between the united states and china are threatening the integrity of global value chains , and britain ’ s looming exit from the european union has the potential to cause even more disruption .
the international monetary fund ’ s october forecast warns that as historic economic drivers stall , global growth this year and next could fall to 3.7 % , a decline of 0.2 percentage points from previous estimates .
but as this slowdown gets priced in by stock markets around the world , new drivers of growth will emerge .
africa is well positioned to become one of them .
according to the world bank , six of the world ’ s ten fastest-growing economies are in africa .
intra- african trade might be the gateway to future local and global growth , with the continent ’ s burgeoning population forging new opportunities across borders .
most significantly , africa ’ s labor force is on the verge of a dramatic expansion .
today , 60 % of africans are younger than 25 , and 41 % are under the age of 15 .
by 2050 , africa ’ s youth population is expected to reach 8 40 million .
but this massive pool of potential talent is a double- ed ged sword .
despite strong gdp growth over the last ten years , the majority of young people in africa could not capture economic opportunities .
furthermore , the african uni on / oecd report africa ’ s development dynamics 2018 highlights that if the under employment trend continues , africa ’ s young people will suffer the most .
failing to employ africa ’ s young people fully could margin alize an entire generation and lead them down a path of disruption for which we may not be prepared .
if that does not happen , and quality jobs remain scarce , the economic expansion of which africa is capable will not happen .
in other words , african governments are facing a deadline to match job growth with skills training .
unfortunately , at the moment , few countries are addressing this challenge effectively .
according to the african development bank , the unemployment rate for young people in africa is already double the rate for adults .
in fact , young people are being let down even before they start looking for work .
too many primary schools suffer from crippling teacher shortages , for example , and gender discrimination prevents millions of girls from even attending high school .
to overcome these shortcomings will require significant investments of political and financial capital .
some leaders are moving in this direction .
at the paris peace forum ( pp f ) , held earlier this month , african and global leaders gathered to discuss the powerful idea that international cooperation is the key to tackling global challenges and ensuring durable peace .
on the sidelines of the pp f , the focus fell on african youth .
the au - eu youth cooperation hub , one of 1 19 projects selected to participate in the forum , attended the meeting to discuss the au - eu youth agenda .
striving to involve young people across africa and europe in decisions that impact them , now and in the future , this initiative aims to show case strategies for bringing africa and europe together to address challenges such as the demographic dividend .
one approach to capit alizing on africa ’ s demographic boom is to expand the availability of training initiatives that pair employers ’ needs with african talent .
as a former fellow with the ibrahim leadership program , i can attest to the transformative power of top- tier educational schemes and their value as incub ators for job- related skills .
africa ’ s success relies on its ability to harness its demographic dividend by equip ping its youth with technological and innovative skills , which will be a catalyst for economic growth .
this includes training and agricul ture- focused programs to absorb skills along the value chains that connect raw materials to industries and markets across africa .
by 2030 , one in every five people on the planet will be african .
because of its size alone , africa ’ s labor force will have the potential to drive global growth for decades .
but to do so , africans must implement the necessary reforms today .
as our demographic dividend mat ures , governments , institutions , and organizations must help position young people for success .
if african countries can meet this challenge , prolonged economic growth – at home and abroad – will be the reward .
africa ’ s path from poverty
beijing – all low-income countries have the potential for dynamic economic growth .
we know this because we have seen it happen repeatedly : a poor , agr arian economy trans forms itself into a middle- or even high-income urban economy in one or two generations .
the key is to capture the window of opportunity for industrialization arising from the relocation of light manufacturing from higher- income countries .
that was true in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries , and it remains true today .
japan seized its opportunity in the years following world war ii , using labor-intensive industries , such as textiles and simple electronics , to drive its economy until rising labor costs eroded its comparative advantage in those sectors .
that shift then allowed other low-income asian economies – south korea , taiwan , hong kong , singapore , and to some extent malaysia and thailand – to follow in japan 's footsteps .
china , of course , is the region 's most recent travel er along this well- tro d den path .
and now that china , too , is beginning to lose its comparative advantage in labor-intensive industries , other developing countries – especially in africa – are set to take its place .
indeed , ever since the industrial revolution , the rise of light manufacturing has driven a dramatic rise in national income .
the united kingdom 's economic transformation started with textiles .
in belgium , france , sweden , denmark , italy , and switzerland , light manufacturing led the way .
similarly , in the united states , cities like boston , bal ti more , and phil ad el ph ia became centers for producing textiles , gar ments , and shoes .
until recently , few believed that africa , too , could become a center for modern manufacturing .
but , with the right policies , there is no reason why african countries could not follow a similar trajectory .
consider land- locked ethiopia , which only ten years ago seemed to be an especially bad bet .
but then the country built an industrial park near addis ababa and invited the chinese sho em aker hu aj ian to open a factory there .
hu aj ian opened its doors in january 2012 with two production lines and some 600 workers .
by the end of the year , it had employed 2,000 ethi op ians and doubled the country 's exports of lea ther shoes .
today , the company has 3 ,500 workers in ethiopia producing more than two million shoes a year .
in 2013 , spurred by hu aj ian 's success , the ethi opian government created a new industrial park , with space for 22 factory units .
within three months , all of them had been le ased by export-oriented companies from turkey , korea , taiwan , china , and elsewhere .
the world bank has provided $ 250 million to support the continued construction of these industrial parks .
the ethi opian success story is just the start .
as investors learn more about africa , they will increasingly see what it has to offer .
indeed , the cost of labor in africa is competitive enough that ethiopia could attract companies from countries as poor as bangladesh .
africa has a surplus of agricultural labor and too few other jobs .
as foreign firms launch operations in the labor-intensive sectors in which africa has a comparative advantage , they will train the local workforce .
some workers will become managers .
they will become familiar with the technology and learn how to maintain consistent quality in the production line .
they will establish contacts with international buyers and investors .
and , eventually , some of them will be able to raise capital and start firms of their own – export companies owned and operated by africans .
mauritius shows the path ahead .
in the 1970s , the government set up industrial parks to process textiles and gar ments for export .
at the time , most of the owners were from taiwan or hong kong ; today , more than 70 % of the island 's industrial companies are locally owned .
a carefully focused export strategy is crucial .
the international development community and many african governments want to work toward regional integration , linking the markets of 55 african countries .
africa today accounts for just 1.9 % of global gdp , compared to 21 % for the united states and 23 % for europe .
developing countries must use their limited resources in the most effective way , and there is no question where the most attractive opportunities in africa are to be found .
for example , instead of investing heavily in the infrastructure needed for regional integration , a country like ethiopia would be better off building industrial parks and linking them by road to ports in d j ib ou ti .
with the right growth strategy , far-reaching change can come within a person 's lifetime – sometimes more than once .
my native taiwan is now a high-income economy .
but when i was born there , in 195 2 , the island was poorer than almost every country in africa .
then it happened to me again .
i moved to mainland china in 1979 , when the country 's per capita income was less than one-third of sub-saharan africa 's .
today , china has become an upper- middle-income country , and it is on track to become a high-income country by 2020 .
my hope is that i can witness a third economic transformation in my lifetime , this time in ethiopia and other countries in africa .
if they stay on the tried and tested path of those who have gone before , there is every chance that i will .
the promise of digital health
basel – africa has changed remarkably , and for the better , since i first worked as a young doctor in angola some 20 years ago .
but no change has been more obvious than the way the continent has adopted mobile technology .
people in africa – and , indeed , throughout low- and middle-income countries – are seizing the opportunities that technology provides , using mobile phones for everything from making payments to issuing birth certi fic ates , to gaining access to health care .
the benefit of mobile technologies lies in access .
barriers like geographical distance and low resources , which have long prevented billions of people from getting the care they need , are much easier to overcome in the digital age .
and , indeed , there are countless ways in which technology can be deployed to improve health-care access and delivery .
of course , this is not new information , and a growing number of technology- based health initiatives have taken shape in recent years .
but only a few have reached scale , and achieved long-term sustainability ; the majority of projects have not made it past the pilot phase .
the result is a highly fragmented landscape of digital solutions – one that , in some cases , can add extra strain to existing health systems .
the first step to addressing this problem is to identify which factors breed success – and which impede it .
here , perhaps the most important observation relates to how the solution is linked to the reality on the ground .
after all , technology is an enabl er for the innovation of health-care delivery , not an end in itself .
solutions that focus on end- users , whether health practitioners or patients , have the best chance of succeeding .
fundamental to this approach is the recognition that what users need are not necessarily the most advanced technologies , but rather solutions that are easy to use and implement .
in fact , seemingly outdated technologies like voice and text messages can be far more useful tools for the intended users than the latest apps or cutting-edge innovations in , say , nanotechnology .
consider the community- based hyper tension improvement project in ghana , run by the novartis foundation , which i lead , and f hi 3 60 .
the project supports patients in self- managing their condition through regular mobile medication remin ders , as well as advice on necessary lifestyle changes .
in a country where mobile penetration exceeds 80 % but only a few people have smartphones , such simple solutions can have the greatest impact .
for health practitioners , digital solutions must be perceived as boosting efficiency , rather than adding to their already- heavy work load .
co- creating solutions with people experienced in delivering health care in low- resource settings can help to ensure that the solutions are adopted at scale .
for example , the tel em ed icine network that the novartis foundation and its partners rolled out with the ghana health service was a direct response to the need , expressed by health-care practitioners on the ground , to expand the reach of medical expertise .
the network connects frontline health workers with a simple phone call to consultation centers in refer r al hospitals several hours away , where doctors and specialists are available ar oun d-the- clock .
from the outset , the project was a response to an expressed need to expand the reach of medical expertise , and was fully operated on the ground by ghana health service staff , which made this model sustainable at scale .
to realize the full potential of digital health , solutions need to be integrated into national health systems .
only then can digital technology accelerate progress toward universal health coverage and address countries ’ priority health needs .
collaboration across the health and ict sectors , both public and private , is essential .
multi disciplinary partnerships driven by the sustained leadership of senior government officials must guide progress , beginning at the planning stage .
intra- governmental collaboration , dedicated financing for digital health solutions , and effective governance mechanisms will also be vital to successful strategies .
digital technologies offer huge opportunities to improve the way health care is delivered .
if we are to seize them , we must learn from past experience .
by remaining focused on the reality of end- users and on priority health needs , rather than being da zz led by the latest technology , we can ful f il the promise of digital health .
confronting africa ’ s water challenge
ab id jan – water is essential for life , and yet it is scarce in many parts of the world .
owing to the effects of climate change , africa is experiencing its worst drought since 1945 , especially in southern sudan , somalia , ethiopia , and northern nigeria .
these fragile areas now need the global community ’ s support .
we need to build resilient systems to ensure access to pot able water for all people , and to improve water- delivery and sanitation provisions in africa ’ s rapidly growing urban areas .
we should begin by expanding africans ’ capacity to harness waste water .
with investment and proper management , waste water can become a sustainable source of wealth for many africans , with added benefits for human health , agricultural productivity , and environmental sustainability .
over the past six years , the african development bank has invested $ 3.3 billion in projects to expand access to water and improve sanitation , with around $ 2.2 billion of that going to urban services that reach at least 17 million people .
the af db supports an integrated urban water- management model ( i u w m ) that , in keeping with united nations sustainable development goal 6 , enables communities to derive a sustainable income from management of urban liquid and solid waste .
i u w m efforts require a significant initial investment , and come with steep capital and operational costs .
only a few african cities collect and treat any more than 20 % of the waste water generated through centralized waste water- management systems .
the remaining 80 % constitutes a huge untapped source of potentially valuable liquid and solid waste .
with the right investment , foresight , and commitment , this under appreciated resource can create jobs and deliver sustainable growth .
waste water management is thus a central feature of the af db ’ s strategic priorities , known as the high 5 s , which aim to improve africans ’ quality of life , boost public health , achieve gender equality , create jobs , and increase communities ’ resilience to the effects of climate change .
water will also play a key role in reaching the high 5 s ’ industrialization and sustain able- farming objectives .
and with a $ 40 million sanitation project , the af db helped to lower the proportion of the city ’ s mal ari a- afflicted population from 16 % to 12 % .
in ab id jan , côte d ’ ivoire , the $ 23 million af d b- funded g our ou basin integrated watershed management project significantly reduced flooding throughout the g our ou basin , and improved 2.8 million inhabitants ’ livelihoods .
in zimbabwe , after 4, 300 people died in the 2008-2009 cholera pandemic , the af db and other donors supported the $ 4 3.6 million urgent water supply and sanitation rehabilitation project , which made emergency repa irs to waste water systems in urban areas , helping 2.5 million people .
all af d b- supported waste water- management systems follow sustainability strategies to ensure that they enhance economic gains , benefit local communities , and remain affordable .
these projects also help countries to harness and use waste flows , by converting se wage to bi og as and fertilizer .
meanwhile , the af db ’ s african water facility ( aw f ) compl ements its projec t- finance work by attracting downstream investments in water infrastructure .
in february , flooding and strong winds from tropical storm d ine o devastated the coast of mozambique and had a severe impact on the local population .
but just a few weeks later , the aw f launched a fea sibility study to improve livelihoods and climate-change resilience throughout mozambique ’ s in ham bane province , where the storm struck .
in collaboration with the global water partnership , the aw f is implementing i u w m systems in five african cities , including kin sh as a in the democratic republic of congo and mar on der a in zimbabwe .
in the drc alone , i u w m systems can be expected to improve water delivery and sanitation for 17 million people by 2030 .
the bill & melinda gates foundation is also tapping into the af db ’ s expertise , by providing an $ 18 million grant to fund phase ii of the af db ’ s urban sanitation program .
this effort will help to develop business innovations for affordable and sustainable sanitation services in africa , which could reach two million urban dwellers directly and another six million people through subsidiary projects .
africa ’ s waste water- management challenges are substantial and complex .
but the af db is determined to provide opportunities that pay dividends for african communities – in public health , improved sanitation , economic development , and environmental protection .
improving the quality of life for all africans will require political commitment , public-private partnerships , and robust public involvement .
with the high 5 s framework , the af db is working to bring these three ingredients together .
all stakeholders – in africa and internationally – must re double our efforts to ensure clean , affordable water for all , and to support african countries suffering through a historic drought .
we have a moral obligation to do so .
after all , water means life .
is africa still rising ?
washington , dc – between 2000 and 2014 , africa grew at a strong cli p , fueling belief in the narrative of an “ africa rising . ”
but , since 2015 , growth across sub-saharan africa has weakened , and the poor outlook for commodity prices has cast doubt on africa ’ s economic promise , leading many to question the “ africa rising ” narrative – and some to pron ounce it dead .
such skepticism is , to some extent , understandable .
the 2014 oil-price shock hit several african economies especially hard , and played a role in pushing aggregate growth down from 5- 6 % in 200 4- 2014 to just 2.5 % in 201 5- 2017 – a rate that barely keeps up with population growth .
moreover , the continent 's three largest economies – angola , nigeria , and south africa – have experienced major declines in performance .
last year , angola and south africa ’ s economies stagnated , while the nigerian economy actually contracted for the first time since 1991 .
the latest projections suggest that these economies will experience tepid recoveries in the coming years .
but africa ’ s skeptics have overlooked a number of important factors .
for starters , when one sets the three largest economies aside , sub-saharan africa ’ s aggreg ate- growth rate for this year rises from 2.5 % to almost 4 % .
in fact , five of the ten fastest-growing economies in the world are in africa .
and over the next five years , around half of all sub-saharan economies will expand at an average rate similar to or higher than that which prevailed during the “ africa rising ” hey day .
furthermore , high commodity prices were just one factor in the region ’ s strong economic performance between 2000 and 2014 .
many african countries have made vast improvements to macroeconomic management , governance , and the business environment , and entrepreneurship is on the rise .
even with lower commodity prices , these developments will continue to bolster many african economies .
today ’ s skepticism may reflect lasting memories from a dar ker period , and fears that africa ’ s progress has not been sufficiently consolidated .
from the 1970s to the mid- 1990s , dictators ruled in many african countries , and the institutions necessary for sustaining strong economic growth were fragile at best .
with civil wars constantly sh red ding the social fabric in many countries , the continent experienced decades of tepid economic growth .
by 2000 , it had been reduced to what the economist called “ hopeless africa . ”
but those days are gone .
policymakers across the continent have sustained the 199 0 s- era reforms that set the stage for the subsequent period of high growth .
although there is still much work to be done , the economic and business environment in many african countries has continued to improve , and institutions and governance have grown stronger .
owing to new information and communication technologies , africans , particularly young africans , are better informed , more engaged in civil and political discourse , and increasingly capable of holding their leaders accountable .
icts have also unleashed a wave of innovation and entrepreneurship across the continent .
these positive trends are not likely to be reversed , and will continue to improve the economic conditions in africa , even if commodity prices do not rebound .
after all , the region ’ s economic growth averaged 5.6 % between 2000 and 2004 , before commodity prices had begun their rapid ascent .
but that is not to say africa will be spared from daunting challenges in the years ahead .
globally , the economic environment will become less favorable for african economies .
in the major advanced economies , interest rates will soon rise , and the political backlash against globalization may force governments to abandon their past commitments to development assistance .
in light of all this uncertainty , african policymakers should look inward , by focusing on policies to mobilize national resources and finance their economic agendas .
those agendas should include a number of key priorities .
african countries need to diversify their economies to withstand future shocks better , while also accelerating the pace of industrialization across the continent .
governments will have to find a way to create decent jobs for the 11 million people now entering the region ’ s labor force every year .
and they will need to enact policies to reduce poverty , and ensure that prosperity is shared across all cohor ts of society .
these are particularly important goals for angola , nigeria , and south africa .
angola and nigeria need to become far less reliant on oil ; and south africa still needs to implement far-reaching reforms to address structural problems that have plagued it since the apartheid era .
seeing these projects through will require competent political leaders who are committed to the principles of good governance .
failure could result in an extended period of low growth .
but even if africa ’ s three largest economies do end up in the dol drums , it will not necessarily seal the fate of the “ africa rising ” story .
from the 1960s to the 1990s , the “ asian tigers ” narrative referred only to hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan , excluding other developing countries in asia , such as china .
similarly , african economies are increasingly differenti ating themselves , and should thus be evaluated individually , on the merits of their respective economic policies .
africa still rising
johannesburg – is the hon ey moon over for african economies ?
less than a decade ago , it seemed that the continent ’ s economic dreams were beginning to come true , with many countries experiencing impressive gdp growth and development .
now , as the harsh reality of the continent ’ s vulnerability to challenging external conditions has set in , sustaining that growth has proved difficult .
enc um bered by slowing growth in china , a collapse in commodity prices , and adverse spillover from numerous security crises , africa ’ s overall annual gdp growth averaged just 3.3 % in 2010- 2015 , barely keeping up with population growth – and down sharply from the 4.9 % recorded from 2000 to 2008 .
but a deeper look suggests that things may not be as bad as they seem , for two key reasons .
first , though average growth has declined , some african economies have thr ived in recent years .
indeed , aggregate gdp has been dragged down since 2010 by faltering growth among oil exporters and security- related crises in the sahel and north africa ; but in the rest of africa , gdp growth has accelerated , from 4.1 % in 2000- 2010 to 4.4 % in 2010- 2015 .
second , africa is undergoing a profound long-term transformation , characterized by rapid digitization , urbanization , and growth in the working-age population , which will out number the labor force of china and india by 20 34 .
that demographic trend could unlock future growth by advancing economic diversification , spurring domestic consumption , and supporting industrialization .
in fact , today ’ s high-growth countries – including côte d ’ ivoire , ethiopia , kenya , and tanzania – have made substantial progress in reducing their dependence on commodity exports , in favor of trade , investment , and domestic consumption .
and many lower- growth countries could head down a similar path .
new research by the mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) shows that spending by africa ’ s consumers and businesses already tot als $ 4 trillion .
by 2025 , private spending could reach $ 5.6 trillion – $ 2.1 trillion by households , and $ 3.5 trillion by businesses .
this represents a huge opportunity for afric a �� � s manufacturers .
we believe that africa can almost double its manufacturing output , to nearly $ 1 trillion , by 2025 , with about 75 % of that growth tied to production for local markets .
the question is whether manufacturers will manage to exploit the growth potential that lies in front of them .
african firms have not yet proved capable of meeting existing domestic demand .
africa still imports about one-third of the food , be ver ages , and similar processed goods it consumes , whereas the association of southeast asian nations imports about 20 % , and south america ’ s mer cos ur trade bloc imports just 10 % .
africa even imports 15 % of the cement it uses , despite having abundant raw materials to make it at home .
to be sure , african business has made great strides in recent years .
today , 400 african companies have annual revenue of more than $ 1 billion , and 700 have annual revenue of more than $ 500 million .
on the whole , these large companies are growing faster – and generating higher profits – than their global peers .
but there is still a long way to go .
large african ( excluding south african ) firms ’ average annual revenue of $ 2 billion is half that of large firms in brazil , india , mexico , and russia .
and africa only has about 60 % of the large firms it needs to put it at the same level as the emerging economies .
one key factor limiting firms ’ growth is the fragmented nature of the african market , which currently comprises mostly small economies with only limited economic and political linkages .
only egypt , morocco , nigeria , and south africa rank in the top 100 of mgi ’ s global connectedness index .
beyond excessive trade barriers , africa suffers from inadequate transport links and limits on the free movement of people .
africans need visas to travel to more than half the countries on their own continent .
the recent launch of the african union passport is a step in the right direction – but it is only one step .
a more integrated market would not only enable african companies to create the economies of scale they need to compete ; it would also be far more appealing to institutional investors .
building such a market must therefore be a top priority for african leaders , as they seek to unleash the continent ’ s economic potential .
equally important , africa ’ s leaders must work to improve the business environment .
though some progress has been made on this front in the last two decades , non-tariff barriers remain high .
indeed , regulatory issues are still cited as a serious deterrent to investment .
many african businesses – nearly half of companies in nigeria , and more than one-third in angola and egypt – highlight unreliable electricity supplies as a major challenge .
and almost 40 % of firms surveyed by the world bank lament the constraints imposed by competition from informal firms .
some of these issues could be addressed relatively quickly .
consider the strides rwanda has made since 2007 , when it established a development board to improve its business environment .
in less than a decade , that board has led the creation of a “ one- stop center ” to facilitate investment , has overseen stream lined issuance of construction permits , and has pressed successfully for a fixed fee for property registration , the extension of customs hours , and risk -based customs inspections .
as a result , rwanda ’ s global ranking for the ease of doing business jumped from 14 3 in 2008 to 32 in 2014 .
this success can surely be replicated elsewhere in africa .
despite the challenges some african countries face , the continent ’ s economic potential remains massive , thanks to favorable demographic dynamics , fast-growing cities , burgeoning domestic markets , and a digital revolution .
with the right policies , a relentless focus on execution , and a great deal of determination , africa can still rise .
africa ’ s arrival
new york – the african development bank ( af db ) has just published its african economic outlook for 2018 .
this year ’ s rev amped publication – shorter than usual , analy tically well- structured , and written in lu ci d pro se , without hyperbol e – in some ways mirrors africa ’ s own transformation , as it raises hopes that we may at last be witnessing the continent ’ s long- promised economic arrival .
africa ’ s rise has been a long time coming .
in the 1960s , hopes were high .
the remarkable leaders of the independence generation – such as ghana ’ s k w ame n kru ma h and kenya ’ s j om o ken y att a – received advice from the world ’ s top economists .
the carib be an- born nobel laureate arthur le w is became n kru ma h ’ s chief economic adviser .
in india , we read about these leaders ’ friendship with our own post- independence prime minister , ja wa har l al nehru , and the hope for a new dawn for all emerging economies .
and many emerging economies did indeed take off .
in the late 1960s , some east asian economies surged ahead .
beginning in the early 1980s , china began its decades-long rise .
but africa remained stagnant , mired in poverty .
ironically , it was the continent ’ s resource wealth that hampered economic progress , as it fueled conflicts among governments and insurgents eager to control it .
the resulting political instability attracted outsiders keen to exploit governments ’ weakness .
as the indian poet and nobel laureate rab in dr an ath t ag ore put it in his 1936 po em “ o de to africa , ” which played on perceptions about who is “ civilized , ” the continent fell prey to “ civilization ’ s barbar ic greed , ” as the colon ists “ arrived , man ac les in hand / cla ws sharper by far than any of your wol ves . ”
finally , at the turn of the twenty-first century , things began to change for africa .
a few dynamic leaders , democratic stir rings , and emerging regional cooperation led to a decline in poverty and a pick up in growth .
commodity exporters faced a setback around 2014 , when prices plummeted .
but this turned out to be a blessing in disguise , because it forced countries to diversify their economies and increase production – factors that supported renewed growth .
according to the af db report , africa ’ s 54 economies grew by 2.2 % in 2016 , on average , and 3.6 % in 2017 .
in 2018 , the af db predicts , average growth will accelerate to 4.1 % , while the world bank expects ghana to grow by 8.3 % , ethiopia by 8. 2 % , and senegal by 6. 9 % , placing these countries among the world ’ s fastest-growing economies .
and these figures are not wishful thinking : in 2016 , ethiopia ’ s gdp grew by 7.6 % .
of course , serious challenges remain .
south africa , the continent ’ s strongest economy , is now facing the difficult task of tackling its deep- rooted corruption .
yet , with the african national congress now apparently determined to replace president jacob  zuma ’ s scand al- ridden administration with one led by the party ’ s new leader , cy ril ramaphosa , there is reason for hope .
more broadly , many african countries need to find ways to create more employment – and fast .
the share of the working-age population is rising faster in africa than in any other region .
this “ demographic dividend ” has immense potential .
but if job creation st alls , the unemployed or under- employed are likely to become frustrated – a recipe for conflict .
consider the case of tanzania .
thanks to president john mag u fu li ’ s effort to mobilize more domestic revenue to support increased development spending , the economy is doing well .
but , with roughly 800,000 individuals entering the labor force each year , tanzania needs much more working capital , better infrastructure , and educational reform aimed at ensuring that workers have the skills , resources , and opportunities to secure decent jobs .
the same is true of ethiopia .
in the last couple of decades , the country has made great strides in export-led growth , supported by a growing industrial sector and large investments from china .
now , it is poised to take over as the economic powerhouse of east africa .
yet the urban youth unemployment rate stands at 2 3.3 % . left unchecked , this situation could easily end up fueling ethnic conflict and political turmoil .
another , related challenge concerns resource mobilization : countries need funds to invest in infrastructure , human capital , and the creation of trade and digital links within and beyond africa .
the af db report estimates that , for infrastructure investment alone , the continent needs some $ 170 billion per year , which is $ 100 billion more than is currently available .
as it stands , africa receives a total of about $ 60 billion in foreign direct investment each year .
to close the gap , african governments must attract more money .
the challenges are daunting , to say the least .
but there are lessons that african countries can learn from one another .
for example , ghana ’ s smooth transfer of power after the december 2016 election set a positive democratic example .
nigeria ’ s lag os state and tanzania have done a good job of mobilizing internal resources for development .
add to that the emergence of an indigenous intellig ent sia in the region , exemplified by organizations like the af db , and it seems that africa ’ s moment may have arrived at last .
africa ’ s schooling without learning
accr a – as the school year began this september , there was welcome news for ghana ’ s nearly half-million students entering high school : president n ana ak u f o- ad do had fulfilled his campaign promise of free secondary education for children nationwide .
he s wor e not only to do away with ad missions fees , but also to provide free textbooks and meals , the cost of which had often remained a barrier for the poorest students .
ghana had introduced free compulsory education at the primary and junior high school levels in 1995 , but implementation had been painfully slow – and students ’ educational dreams were often cut off before high school .
even in 2014 , only 37 % of the nation ’ s students were enrolled in secondary school , owing to high fees .
the president ’ s move is thus an inspiring example that ghana ’ s neighbors should follow .
unfortunately , despite progressive reforms like these , students across africa still face other steep barriers to a truly comprehensive education .
in ghana , for example , poor and rural children are unlikely to reap the full benefits of their new access to secondary education .
the situation is arguably worse elsewhere on the continent .
the issue is not only lack of access to schools , but also lack of good schools .
the results of a staggering new report from the unesco institute of statistics show that six out of ten children and adolescents around the world – 600 million in total – are not achieving basic skills in mathematics and reading .
in sub-saharan africa , it is estimated that 88 % of children and teenagers will enter adulthood without basic literacy .
this constitutes a moral and development crisis that demands immediate action .
having served as head of the department of ga - d ang me education at the university of education in win ne ba , i know from first- hand experience that one of the main problems is lack of education and abs ent e e ism among teachers themselves .
the world bank , which similarly raised the issue of “ schooling without learning ” in a new report , has corro bor ated my view .
addressing this issue requires investing more in teachers ’ colleges , promoting teaching as the career of nation- builders , and encouraging the best and brightest students to aspire to a teaching career .
we can not expect students to learn from poorly educated , poorly paid teachers .
we must also invest more in resources for schools and learning across the board , from scholar ships for poor students to new libr aries and classroom equipment .
with so many african governments already failing to provide equal , high-quality access to education for their citizens , this is not a challenge that they can take on alone .
as the continent ’ s population booms – half of the world ’ s population growth between 2017 and 2050 is expected to occur here – african heads of state will have to work closely with key allies and multilateral organizations to bring in funding and share know-how .
fortunately , with the launch of the unesco report , several partners have already stepped up .
french president emmanuel macron is perhaps the most prominent of those who have promised to make investment in education in africa a high priority .
as the un ’ s main educational and cultural organization , unesco itself will play a key role in promoting initiatives to bring free , high-quality schooling to students across the continent .
and whoever takes over unesco , following the election of a new direc tor- general next month , will have a ma ke- or- break opportunity to craft the right agenda to meet this challenge .
notably , france ’ s candidate , former minister of culture and communication au dre y az ou lay , has put both unesco ’ s internal crisis and education at the top of her agenda .
she has singled out the financial crisis as the biggest threat facing unesco and has stressed the need for greater dialogue with members in arre ars , like the united states .
in her previous governmental roles , az ou lay helped launch a global plan for cultural diversity through books and introduced plans to protect cultural heritage in conflict zones .
az ou lay also has called for unesco to treat education as a catalyst for development and gender equality , and as the best way to help combat the “ radicalization of the mind . ”
if elected , she has promised to put sustainable development goal 4 – universal quality education – at the heart of unesco ’ s mission , with a special focus on africa .
the pre am ble to the constitution of unesco decla res , “ since wars begin in the minds of men , it is in the minds of men that the defenses of peace must be constructed . ”
unfortunately , in africa , we know all too well what happens when efforts to construct the defenses of peace ultimately fail .
islamist insurgents continue to pose a threat to mali , where in 2013 , they set fire to a library holding thousands of pric eless historical man us crip ts in the ancient cultural center of tim bu k tu .
the incident was not only a devastating blow to world heritage ; it was also a reminder of africa ’ s history as a center for cultural exchange , literacy , and learning , and a call to action .
the stakes for africa are high .
our children are threatened not only by lack of access to schools , but also by lack of opportunities to learn , and by the loss of irre plac eable frag ments of their rich history .
we must hope that more governments follow ghana ’ s example , that more allies like france increase their support , and that the new director general will place a high priority on unesco ’ s missions in africa , which are more critical than ever .
africa ’ s year of opportunity
geneva – we are still near the start of 2018 , and already it feels like tension and disorder will be the year ’ s defining characteristics .
from anti-immigration policies in the united states to fl aring geopolitical hot spots in the middle east and east asia , disruption , upheaval , and uncertainty seem to be the order of the day .
but at least one metric offers reason for cautious optimism : economic growth .
the international monetary fund estimates that global growth will reach 3.7 % this year , up from 3.6 % in 2017 .
as christine lagarde , the fund ’ s managing director , put it in a speech in december , “ the sun is shining through the clouds and helping most economies generate the strongest growth since the financial crisis . ”
it was fitting that lagarde made that observation in addis ababa , because it is in africa where the ra ys of prosperity are shining brightest .
in fact , i predict that 2018 will be a breakout year for many – though not all – african economies , owing to gains in eight key areas .
for starters , africa is poised for a modest , if fragmented , growth recovery .
following three years of weak economic performance , overall growth is expected to accelerate to 3.5 % this year , from 2.9 % in 2017 .
this year ’ s projected gains will come amid improved global conditions , increased oil output , and the easing of drought conditions in the east and south .
to be sure , growth will be uneven .
while nearly a third of african economies will grow by around 5 % , slow downs are likely in at least a dozen others .
sharp increases in public debt , which has reached 50 % of gdp in nearly half of sub-saharan countries , are particularly worrying .
but , overall , africa is positioned for a positive year .
second , africa ’ s political landscape is liberalizing .
some of africa ’ s long est- serving presidents – including zimbabwe ’ s robert mugabe , angola ’ s josé ed u ardo dos santos , and the gamb ia ’ s y ah ya jam me h – ex ited in 2017 .
in january , liber ians witnessed their country ’ s first peaceful transfer of power since 1944 , when former soccer star george we ah was sworn into office .
all of these gains will be tested , however , as voters in 18 countries go to the polls this year .
adding to africa ’ s story of divergence will be continued political fragility in a number of states , including the central african republic , bur un di , nigeria , south sudan , and somalia .
a third source of optimism is africa ’ s agricultural sector , where the potential of smallholder farmers , the majority of whom are women , is finally being realized .
african agricultural output is forecast to reach $ 1 trillion by 2030 .
this matur ation could not have come at a more opportun e time ; roughly two-thirds of africans depend on agriculture to make ends meet .
large tr acts of un cultivated land , a youthful workforce , and the emergence of tech - savvy “ agro pr eneur s ” – agricultural entrepreneurs – are lifting production and transforming entire economies .
fourth , africans are benefiting from technological disruption .
with more than 9 95 million mobile subscr ib ers , africa ’ s increasing connectivity is being used to power innovation .
key sectors like farming , health , education , banking , and insurance are already being transformed , greatly enhancing the region ’ s business landscape .
fifth , african leaders are getting serious about curbing illicit financial outflows from corrupt practices that ro b african countries of some $ 50 billion annually , much of it in the oil and gas sector .
while us lawmakers are pushing to repeal por tions of the 2010 dodd-frank financial reform legislation – which contains a provision requiring oil , gas , and mining companies to disclose payments they make to governments – the broader trend is toward greater transparency and accountability .
for example , the panama papers and the parad ise papers pulled back the curtain on the murky system of tax havens and shell companies that shelter billions of dollars from some of the world ’ s poorest countries , including many in africa .
and with the g20 and the oecd working to stop tax avoidance , africa may soon benefit from global efforts to end shad y accounting .
sixth , africa ’ s energy sector is set to thrive .
while 6 21 million africans still lack reliable access to electricity , innovations like renewables , mini-grids , and smart me tering are bringing power to more people than ever before .
in south africa , renewable energy has taken off ; the price of wind power is now competitive with coal .
ethiopia , kenya , morocco , and rwanda are also attracting large investments in renewable energy .
a seventh area showing signs of progress is education .
to be sure , africa ’ s educational offerings remain dismal ; more than 30 million children in sub-saharan africa are not in school , and those who do attend are not learning as much as they could .
but many african leaders and publics have recognized these deficiencies ; in some countries , such as ghana , education has even become a deciding issue for voters .
as the education commission highlights , some countries are boosting investments in education .
this represents an opportunity to align learning outcomes with future employment needs .
but with over a billion young people living in africa by 2050 , greater investment in education is urgently needed .
finally , greater attention is being paid to developing a pan- african identity , and african fash ions , films , and foods are expanding to new markets .
as these cultural connections grow , africa ’ s soft power will continue to rise and extend far beyond the continent .
in many corners of the world , 2018 is shaping up to be yet another disappointing year , as inequality and poverty continue to fuel anger and populism .
africa will not be entirely immune from such developments .
nonetheless , the continent ’ s inhabitants have at least eight good reasons – far more than most people elsewhere – to be optimistic .
johannesburg – in october , the european union announced a plan to invest € 40 billion ( $ 4 7.6 billion ) in africa , a “ marshall plan ” for the continent that would boost economic growth , create jobs , and , ultimately , slow the migration of young africans to europe .
“ words won ’ t convince migrants to stay at home , ” european parliament president anton io ta jani said . “ we must give them a chance to have a decent life . ”
ta jani is right .
unfortunately , his approach is not .
for almost 60 years , well-meaning foreign governments , many of them european , have poured huge sums of money into africa , with little to show for it .
lasting solutions to africa ’ s development challenges require funding , to be sure , but they also demand a significant rec ali br ation in relations with foreign partners .
and africa ’ s relationship with europe may require the biggest overhaul of all .
the problem goes much deeper than money ; one might even say it ’ s philosophical .
africa and europe have a very old relationship , marked by complexity and pain .
europe imposed its system of governance , values , and more recently , approaches to trade , long claiming that africans need to be trained , to modernize , and to emphasize “ capacity building . ”
this patron izing partnership has run its course , and it is crucial that we change the dynamic .
meetings like the fifth african uni on- european union summit , which wr apped up last week in ab id jan , côte d ’ ivoire , are a good start .
the meeting , which focused on “ investing in youth , ” put a spotlight on the complex links between the sides .
one conclusion was clear : the eu ’ s current answer to addressing migration from africa is outdated .
if europe ’ s strategy to solve its migration challenges relies on money alone , it will fail .
we are a long way from the lop sided dynamic that defined african- european relations during the colonial era .
today , europe may need africa more than africa needs europe , especially if one considers human capital .
over the next 15 years , some 4 40 million africans will enter the job market , compared to 72 million in europe .
africa ’ s job seekers will need work , and europe will have it .
an aging population is already putting a squeeze on europe ’ s growth , and vac ancies are forecast to multiply amid a shrinking labor pool .
there is even a strong possibility that , in the long run , it will be african young people who pay for the care of european pensioners .
these demographic differences underscore the potential benefits of rethinking economic and political relations .
without migration , the redistributive policies on which european welfare states depend will be unable to withstand the current rate of aging .
not only will finding the staff to care for an aging population become more difficult ; obtaining sufficient revenue to fund social security systems will also become harder as the dependency ratio rises .
migration policies that emphasize mobility are essential to support european industries , household consumption and , ultimately , the financing of social benefits .
because strategic competitors like china and india have already identified the human- capital potential of africa ’ s youth , europe must move quickly to attract and retain – rather than rep el – african professionals .
of the 3 7 5,000 students from the continent who study abroad each year , many will establish businesses and find their own place in a globalized economy upon graduation .
there is already growing competition in the us , canada , china , the middle east , and africa itself to attract these highly educated and mobile students .
just as six teenth-century europe needed african gold , twenty-first-century europe can not do without the african diaspora .
that is why it is more important than ever that europe not engage in an administrative be an- counting exercise , in which other economies will always appear stronger .
instead , the eu should commit to mutually beneficial employment schemes that maximize the strengths of people and cultures on both continents , notably through skills transfer .
europe ’ s recognition of its need for africa is a necessary paradigm shift , leading , one hopes , to reasoned collaboration .
in an increasingly uncertain world , africa and europe can set the foundations for a smarter partnership by changing the basis of their cooperation .
failure to do so will be costly .
but most of that cost will be borne by europe .
with alternative partners already cour ting their talent , it is not africa that will be hurt the most by the missed opportunity .
gender equity for africa ’ s scientists
k ig ali – a girl in ethiopia could grow up to engineer a new method for improving agricultural yields , if only she could meet the right ment or .
a young woman in malawi has ideas for new cancer treatments , but will never apply them if she is pushed out of school .
and a girl in rwanda has all the skills to create a mathematical model to mitigate droughts ; all she needs is a research grant to help her pay for college .
there is a global gender imbalance in science , technology , engineering , and mathematics – the so-called stem disciplines .
but in africa , this imbalance is doing more than threatening individual futures .
it is also depriving the continent of talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress .
a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ”
gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars are showing the world how to do it .
but they need help , and programs that offer scholar ships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences .
the causes of africa ’ s stem gender imbalance are often compared to a leak y pi pe : girls start out with interest and ap titude , but drop out of the disciplines at various points in their education .
early data from a master card foundation initiative aimed at reversing these trends show that a comprehensive approach to plu gging the leaks can make a difference .
success begins with acknowledging that gender equity in stem matters .
“ science needs us ” is how ar man da k ou as si , an industrial engineer and former master card foundation scholar , puts it .
“ with different ideas and perspectives come better solutions and thinking that can move scientific innovations forward and benefit the whole of africa . ”
k ou as si is right .
africa can not afford to squ ander its young , female talent .
sub-saharan africa faces a shortfall of some 2.5 million engineers , technolog ists , mathemati ci ans , and scientists .
this dearth of expertise threatens a number of sustainable development goals , such as food security , health care , clean water and sanitation , energy , and infrastructure .
removing gender barriers to stem requires african governments to make equity in the sciences a priority .
nowhere is this happening more successfully than in rwanda , where our collective experience has helped more than 1, 250 girls and young women exc el in stem disciplines .
the african institute for mathematical sciences ( aims ) , in rwanda ’ s capital , k ig ali , is one of these agents of change .
aims ’ s innovative approach includes helping governments train teachers , ensure that female students are not vastly out num bered in their classrooms , support students who are mothers , and engage with industry leaders to help graduates succeed in their careers .
to attract more female students , 30 % of the school ’ s scholar ships are reserved for female applic ants , and the school aspires to reach 50 % in the near future .
similarly , carnegie m ell on university africa ( c mu - africa ) , also in k ig ali , is championing change by allocating 30 % of its scholar ships to young women .
these commitments will have a positive effect on the entire institution , as c mu - africa seeks to increase dramatically enrollment of female scientists .
finally , the forum for african women educ ati onal ists ( fa we ) in rwanda has funded the education of 1, 200 girls enrolled at the country ’ s top- performing secondary schools speci alizing in stem subjects .
of these students , an estimated 70 % are expected to study science at the university level .
despite these positive developments , quotas alone will not achieve parity .
to make lasting gains , opportunities outside the classroom are also needed .
at fa we rwanda , a program called tus em e ( a swa hil i word meaning “ let ’ s speak out ” ) offers girls leadership training through drama , song , and creative arts to teach presentation , negotiation , and decision-making skills .
fa we rwanda also works with teachers to develop gender- responsive ped agog ical methods .
likewise , at c mu - africa , scholars are invited to participate in the university ’ s meeting of the minds sym posi um , an annual global gathering for under graduates to show case their work to a wider audience of faculty , students , government officials , and industry representatives .
and , the next einstein forum , a select program at aims that recognizes africa ’ s best young scientists and technolog ists – of which 40 % are women – provides emerging innovators with an opportunity to lead their own research while inspiring the next generation of scientific thinkers .
inequalities faced by girls and young women in african education can not be er ased overnight .
as re bec ca , a master card foundation scholar from uganda , re members , “ when i was at my school , the boys used to call us ‘ half- men , ’ because if you ’ re a lady and you go for sciences , you ’ re a half- man . ”
but , re bec ca adds , “ it was cool being a science student . ”
africa needs more women who share re bec ca ’ s enthusiasm for stem .
to ensure that science remains appealing to girls , schools , governments , and industries must cooperate to educate teachers and ment ors , and allocate funding to close the gender gap .
as mir anda , another master card foundation scholar , recently observed , “ as we try to find new innovations and inventions to drive the economy , i believe that math and science is at the forefront of that progress . ”
as professionals working to improve african education , we couldn ’ t agree more .
liberal democracy in africa can wait
ya ound é – africa ’ s policymakers understand that strong economic and political leadership is essential to growth and stability .
for years , african economies have fa red better than expected , owing to a commitment to improving governance .
the question now is how to sustain the momentum .
current strategies do not provide an adequate answer .
although leaders at a recent african economic conference in addis ababa , ethiopia , committed to keeping governance reforms at the top of africa ’ s agenda , they offered no blueprint .
from my perspective , this void presents an opportunity to consider new governance paradig ms , including those that borrow from two commonly discussed models : the “ washington consensus ” and the “ beijing model . ”
development practitioners have long debated which model offers the best framework for reform .
put simply , “ governance ” refers to a dynamic framework of rules , structures , and processes that help a government manage its economic , political , and administrative affairs .
but which principles a government focuses on varies by approach .
since the election of president donald trump , the united states , which remains one of africa ’ s top donors , has focused more on the principles china favors – like political stability , trade , and counter terrorism – than on human rights .
the rationale is that the beijing model is better for africa in the short and medium term .
and , while it might not be popular to admit , trump has a point .
simply put , food , shelter , health , and good sanitation are more relevant for most africans than the right to vote .
moreover , only a moderately wealthy population , with a healthy middle class , can adequately demand the rights that democracy provides .
paradoxically , the fastest way to build a strong middle class in africa would be to move toward the hierarchy of principles that china ’ s model promotes .
for africa to re orient its governance approach , and embrace a post- washington consensus , its leaders must commit to improving institutional effectiveness and economic management .
the first set of reforms would involve establishing clear lines of sovereignty with international partners .
africa ’ s relationship with western donors , for example , has historically placed individual rights over national rights .
but in my view , individual rights should not superse de sovereign ones .
punishing entire countries for laws that affect a minority is counterproductive .
an example of such collective punishment occurred in uganda in 2014 , when the world bank fro ze some $ 90 million in loans following the government ’ s enactment of legislation crimin alizing homosexuality .
as a ug and an government spokes man said at the time , the bank “ should not blackmail its members ” to adopt western values .
yet , when governance models are judged solely through the lens of the washington consensus , there is very little alternative .
along the same lines , the second set of reforms per tains to prioritiz ing economic rights over political rights .
for example , politicians who manage an economy well should not be subject to term limits .
neither singapore nor china is a democracy ; but leaders in both countries have used their political power to improve living standards .
forcing leaders to step down in the middle of economic reforms seems counterproductive .
these are not far-fetched ideas .
today , leaders in rwanda , which is widely considered an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance .
politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized , but it is not liberal .
the landslide reelection of president paul k ag ame last year had more to do with power than democracy .
although k ag ame remains popular , his government was criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote .
the conclusion i draw is not that human rights don ’ t matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained progress in economic and institutional governance .
we should be intellectually honest and call a sp ade a sp ade .
rwand ans should not be ash amed to value economic and administrative strength more than fair elections .
the question for other african states seeking to reform their governance models , then , is how much of rwanda ’ s approach to emulate .
neither the washington consensus nor the beijing model has all the answers .
but , as rwanda has demonstrated , if discipline and strong leadership are improving lives and delivering public goods , perhaps liberal democracy should be a long-term priority .
d ar es sal a am – my grand mother is 76 , and my grandfather is 83 .
they have lived fruit ful lives together , cultivating crops and gra zing cattle in a remote village in the h ills of south west uganda .
but whenever i think of them , i am more in a we of their good health than their hard work .
because of the remo ten ess of their community , anytime my grandparents need medical care , they must travel 25 miles to the ne arest hospital on motor cycles known as bo da - bo d as , paying about 50,000 ug and an sh ill ings ( about $ 13 ) for the r oun d- trip journey .
then , because they were recently dropped from their health-insurance plan due to age , they must cou gh up more money to foot the bill for treatment .
in other words , for my grandparents – and for many older africans – a visit to the doctor is onerous , costly , and exceedingly rare .
access to health care is an obsession for experts in international development .
in may , at the world health organization ’ s annual world health assembly , officials from dozens of countries discussed how to achieve universal health coverage through the united nations sustainable development goals .
and yet , most of the attention centered on mothers , new bor ns , and children ; elderly populations in developing countries were largely ignored .
failure to address this omis sion would leave an increasing share of the population without access to affordable health care .
according to the world bank , life expectancy in sub-saharan africa has risen steadily in recent decades , from just 40 years in 1960 to 60 years today .
if this trend continues , the number of africans living past their 60th birthday will more than double by 2050 .
this is of course good news ; longevity is a key indicator of human development .
but africa ’ s el der boom will be a disaster if living longer means living s ick er because of inadequate health care .
in uganda , many rural health-care centers lack the personnel , supplies , and infrastructure to meet the needs of older patients .
small clinics typically refer their oldest patients to the closest big hospital , which is often many miles away .
traveling by motor cycle over rough terrain can worsen health conditions ; but with no other options , the fra il must choose between a bumpy ride on the back of a bi ke and no treatment at all .
it ’ s hard to blame those who opt for the latter .
according to a 2010 survey by doctors at the mul ago national refer r al hospital in k amp ala , bo da - bo d as are uganda ’ s leading cause of road -related injuries .
during the survey period , motor cycle passengers accounted for 41 % of the hospital ’ s 1, 500 trauma cases , and rid ers ’ injuries consumed 6 2.5 % of the hospital ’ s surgery budget .
given the dangers of travel , it is no wonder that my grandparents are reluctant to seek medical care .
of course , the biggest obstacle to health care in uganda – like everywhere else – is money .
in 2015 , researchers at ma ker ere university found that household income is the main determinant of elderly people ’ s access to and use of health-care services .
the story is similar in the united states , where average annual health-care costs have been increasing for decades .
but while older patients in the us can turn to medicare ( which accounted for 15 % of federal spending in 2017 ) , the elderly in most african countries have less government support .
still , a dearth of dedicated resources does not mean that africa ’ s leaders must ignore their older constituents .
by combining elder - care services with existing programs , health benefits can be extended to under served populations .
for example , single- sector initiatives , like hiv/aids treatment schemes , could include elder ly- friendly health-care components .
health-care workers who serve expect ant and new mothers could also be trained to provide in- home care for the elderly in multi generational households .
developing countries have made considerable gains when it comes to improving health care for the young .
now , we must do the same for the elderly .
in uganda , the government ’ s national health-care strategy could easily be strengthened by adding seni ors to the list of so-called vulnerable groups .
integrating elder - care options into existing frameworks – such as the health extension program in ethiopia , the community- based health program in tanzania , and village health teams in my country – are other ways to extend coverage .
finally , community health-insurance schemes must be overha uled to prevent the exclusion of poor older patients .
to maintain coverage and protect the elderly from financial ruin , reforms are needed to create plans that are financially sound and drawn from a larger pool of subscr ib ers .
we all year n to live long , healthy , productive lives – just as my grandparents have .
but without lifelong access to quality health care , longevity will be more luck than science .
the integrity of any society can be judged by how well it treats its youngest and oldest members .
that calculus applies to governments , too .
africa ’ s mu st- do decade
vienna – since 2000 , africa has recorded impressive rates of economic growth , owing largely to development assistance and a prolonged commodity boom .
while the continent shows great diversity in the socioeconomic trajec tories , growth rates have generally masked an underlying lack of structural transformation .
many african countries have yet to undergo the kind of transformation that is necessary for socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable development over the long term : namely , industrialization .
wherever industrialization has occurred , it has reliably improved economic diversification and helped to nurture , strengthen , and uphold the conditions for competitive growth and development .
in recent decades , some developing countries – mainly in asia – have managed to industri alize .
but , despite repeated attempts , african countries have not .
in 2014 , the asia and pacific region ’ s share of value added in global manufacturing was 4 4.6 % , whereas africa ’ s was just 1.6 % .
with south africa as its only industrialized country , sub-saharan africa is the least industrialized region in the world .
for african countries to achieve sustainable development , they will have to increase substantially the share of industry – especially manufacturing – in their national investment , output , and trade .
and , to their credit , most african countries already recognize that such a transformation is necessary to address a wide range of interconnected challenges that they are now confronting .
one such challenge is population growth .
more than half of the continent ’ s 1.2 billion people are under the age of 19 , and almost one in five are between the ages of 15 and 24 .
each year , 12 million new workers join the labor force , and they will need the tools and skills to ensure their future livelihoods .
industrialization is the key to helping africa ’ s fast-growing population realize a demographic dividend .
a related challenge is migration .
many of africa ’ s most ambitious and entrepreneur ially minded young people are joining others in migr ating north .
but no country , especially in africa , can afford to lose so much talent and potential .
industrialization alone can not resolve the migration crisis , but it can address one root cause , by creating jobs in the countries of origin .
to confront the threat , africa will need to develop and adopt green technologies , while channeling more investment into resource efficiency and clean energy .
with the right investments , african countries can reduce the cost of delivering power to rural areas , and contribute to global efforts to reduce emissions and mitigate the effects of climate change .
in short , africa must industri alize , and it must do so in a socially inclusive and environmentally sustainable manner .
given that most previous efforts at sustainable development in africa have failed , there is a clear need for a new approach : a broad-based , country- owned process that t aps financial and non-financial resources , promotes regional integration , and fosters cooperation among africa ’ s development partners .
as it happens , the united nations general assembly has declared 201 6- 2025 to be the third industrial development decade for africa .
during id da iii , the united nations industrial development organization , which i lead , will spear head the new approach to sustainable development ske t ched above .
un id o has put its full support behind partnerships for mobilizing resources , and is offering a tested model for african countries to follow : the programme for country partnership ( p c p ) .
un id o ’ s p c p provides countries with technical assistance , policy advice , and investments to help them design and implement industrialization strategies .
the program was launched in 2014 , and is already being successfully implemented in two african countries – ethiopia and senegal – and in peru .
the p c p provides a multi- stakeholder partnership model that can be adapted to each country ’ s national development agenda .
it is designed to work in synerg y with governments and their partners ’ ongoing development efforts , while fun n eling additional funds and investments toward sectors that have high growth potential and are important to a particular government ’ s industri al- development agenda .
priority sectors are typically chosen for their job- creation , investment , and export potential , and for their access to necessary raw materials .
the p c p approach is designed to maximize the impact of all partner programs and projects that are relevant to industrial development .
to that end , strategic partnerships with financial institutions and the business sector are particularly important .
with these in place , african countries can marshal additional resources for infrastructure , innovation , expertise , and new technologies .
un id o ’ s goal is to make the p c p model the mainstream approach for all african countries .
we stand ready to support africa on its path to inclusive and sustainable industrial development – during id da iii and beyond .
africa ’ s decade of industrialization
vienna – in today ’ s interdependent global economy , africa remains a weak link .
if the world is to achieve the sustainable development goals , thereby completing the united nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development , it must help africa accelerate its development by promoting rapid and responsible industrialization .
africa is by no means destined to lag behind the rest of the world economy .
on the contrary , it could easily become a global economic powerhouse – and within the next decade .
but , to fulfill its economic potential , africa must industri alize .
the importance of this has been stressed repeatedly at recent international forums , including last august ’ s sixth tokyo international conference on african development ( tic ad vi ) , and the g20 summit in hang zhou , china , the following month .
for the first time , the g20 placed industrialization in africa – and all of the least developed countries ( ld cs ) – on its agenda .
the african union ’ s agenda 20 63 also supports this drive .
the recent un general assembly resolution declaring 201 6- 2025 the third industrial development decade for africa is yet another push in this direction .
the organization that i represent , the un industrial development organization ( un id o ) , has been tasked with oper ation alizing and leading the implementation of the concomitant program , including mobilizing the needed resources .
all of these declarations and commitments are an important first step .
the question is how .
the short answer is money and action .
we must challenge the international community and development partners to back their words with real financial commitments .
and we must build partnerships to oper ation alize programs that will enable africa to become the world ’ s next main engine of economic growth .
such programs must recognize and tackle the acute challenges the continent faces .
the economic growth experienced in recent decades has not been structurally driven , sustainable , or fully inclusive .
indeed , growth rates vary widely across the continent , and not all africans are benefiting .
though the middle class in africa has expanded markedly in recent years , generating a consumer boom and boosting domestic investment , many people still struggle to make a living .
unemployment rates are high , especially for young people and women – a reality that drives many africans to head north .
to keep them home , africa ’ s economies must move beyond producing raw materials to build dynamic and competitive manufacturing sectors with higher value added .
here , africa must draw on the opportunities presented by participation in global and regional value chains .
new and innovative industri al- development strategies , as well as carefully tailored measures to attract foreign direct investment , must be introduced .
of course , to develop such strategies and participate effectively in industrial value chains , africans need knowledge .
investment in education and skills training is imperative to facilitate successful and lasting industrialization .
by understanding and drawing on proven innovations from around the world , africa could leap fro g more developed countries technologically , building the capacity to produce more sophisticated , higher- value goods .
knowledge of other countries ’ experiences will also help africa to avoid the pitfalls of unbridled industrialization – particularly environmental damage .
africa must ensure that its industri al- development strategy includes effective environmental safeguards .
africa is well placed to industri alize .
beyond its massive natural-resource endowments , the continent has a favorable demographic profile ( its rapidly growing population means that it will soon have the world ’ s largest workforce ) and high urbanization rates .
it also benefits from a highly educated diaspora .
but industrialization is never automatic .
governments must step up to address market failures , while planning , implementing , and enforcing industrial policies that address the shortcomings of previous ineffective versions .
they must then institution alize these new policies in national and regional development strategies .
to succeed , governments will need adequate capacity , competence , and legitimacy to mobilize and interact with all stakeholders , thereby creating an attractive investment climate .
the necessary reforms will open the way for public-private partnerships , which can provide investment for infrastructure development and maintenance .
they will also facilitate cooperation with international organizations and development finance institutions , which can provide additional funds , while helping countries to upgrade their productive capacity .
a recent report , prepared for the hang zhou g20 summit , features a number of recommendations for africa .
it suggests support for agriculture and ag ri business development and linking them with other sectors , as well as measures to boost resilience to price shocks .
furthermore , the report emphasizes the need to deepen , broaden , and update the local knowledge base , invest in energy-  and materi al- resource efficiency , and promote green technologies and industries .
my numerous meetings with african leaders and visits to dozens of countries across the continent have convinced me that africa is committed to industrialization .
in fact , the process is already underway in many countries , including ethiopia , ghana , rwanda , and senegal .
by offering our commitment and support , we can enable these countries to realize inclusive and sustainable development for the benefit of everyone .
a roadmap for african industrialization
ab id jan – africa is at a crossroads .
six of the world ’ s ten fastest-growing economies are now located in the region , and the continent ’ s gdp is expected to grow at a rate of 4.1 % this year , up from 3.6 % in 2017 .
yet africa ’ s economic growth has not been accompanied by a commensurate level of job creation , which has particularly negative implications for women and young people .
in fact , today ’ s jobless growth could even reverse the gains made in eradicating poverty in recent years .
the problem is that africa ’ s growth , while impressive , has been volatile , because it has been driven mainly by high commodity prices , rather than by manufacturing .
the economic effects of this imbalance should not be underestimated .
among other things , it explains why a region that produces about 75 % of the world ’ s coco a accounts for just 5 % of the nearly $ 100 billion annual ch oc ol ate market .
despite its vast natural resources , africa will remain at the mercy of commodity prices and trade flows until it under takes a profound structural transformation .
the time has come for africa to unlock its true economic potential by following in the footsteps of every modern economy and undertaking the transition from agriculture to manufacturing .
africa ’ s manufacturing sector is the weakest link in its ongoing integration into the global economy .
today , primary products ( raw materials ) comprise 62 % of africa ’ s total exports , the highest share in the world .
at the same time , manufactured exports per capita in 2014 totaled just $ 2 18 , which is among the lowest levels in the world , and far below other developing regions such as asia ( $ 8 83 ) and latin america ( $ 1 ,0 99 ) .
clearly , africa must start catching up .
fortunately , there is already a global consensus that industrialization matters , and that it is in everyone ’ s interest for africa to become the global manufacturing power it ought to be .
with its “ high 5 agenda , ” the african development bank ( af db ) has made industrialization a top priority .
likewise , industrialization is a key component of the african union ’ s “ agenda 20 63 . ”
and , in 2016 , the united nations general assembly declared 201 6- 2025 the “ third industrial development decade for africa . ”
but such pronouncements are meaningless in the absence of concrete action .
to change the region ’ s economic trajectory , african policymakers must focus on three key areas : industrial policies , infrastructure financing , and leadership .
we now know that industrial policies can be effective in boosting growth .
the question is whether states possess the capacity to implement the policies they design .
if they do , they can channel resources toward industry and marshal available technologies to create synerg y between the agriculture and manufacturing sectors .
a number of african countries have already moved in this direction .
ethiopia , for example , has created special economic zones , where it has lowered production costs by investing in infrastructure .
as a result , the country has emerged as africa ’ s largest hub for textile manufacturing , attracting major players like h & m and prim ark .
but industrialization can not happen without power , roads , and railways , which is why infrastructure must be a key focus .
as of now , the af db pe gs africa ’ s infrastructure gap at $ 13 0 – 170 billion per year .
closing it will require not just more financing , but also more innovative thinking , particularly concerning joint public-private efforts .
to that end , the af db has expanded its portfolio for financing new infrastructure projects in several countries .
as part of our “ new deal on energy for africa , ” we have scaled up investment in renewable energy and put $ 2 65 million toward developing two solar- power plants in morocco .
in côte d ’ ivoire , where demand for energy is surging by 8- 9 % annually , we are investing $ 60 million to bring a new 4 4- mega wat t hydropower plant on stream .
african countries should make such investments now to reap the demographic dividend of the continent ’ s population bul ge in the years ahead .
as manufacturing activities expand , they will need to be supported by more robust knowled ge - and skill -based economies , which will require higher investment in education to boost technical and vocational skills and training .
no country has ever undergone economic modernization without industry .
but , more to the point , no functional industrial sector has ever emerged in the absence of strong , committed leadership .
consider mauritius , which in the 1970s was a low-income mon o- crop economy with a per capita gdp of just under $ 250 .
today , mauritius is an upper- middle-income country with a more diversified economy and a per capita gdp of around $ 9 , 600 .
it is often cited as a model of economic success in africa .
how did this come about ?
as former mauriti an prime minister and president an er ood ju gn au th has put it , “ there is no miracle .
it is due simply to hard work , discipline , and will . ”
leaders who want to develop a strong manufacturing base must have the political will to distribute resources fairly and pull the private sector along .
mauritius experienced its fair share of challenges in moving from low- end manufacturing to technology- intensive goods and services .
but it now stands as an example of what committed leadership can accomplish .
other african countries would do well to emulate it as they pursue their own economic transformations .
all told , africa is well placed to seize many of the opportunities that the global economy offers emerging markets .
it already has the resources and the labor ; now it needs committed leaders like ju gn au th who will implement the right policies .
africa ’ s alternative path to development
washington , dc – recent projections indicate that several sub-saharan african countries will experience robust economic growth over the next five years .
by 20 23 , around one-third of the region ’ s economies will have grown at an average annual rate of 5 % or higher since 2000 .
and yet , as the economist observed last year , africa ’ s development model “ puzz les economists . ”
after all , only four of the continent ’ s high-growth countries are natural-resource dependent .
nor is overall performance due primarily to industrialization , as traditional development models would have predicted .
what , then , explains the strong economic performance ?
according to the forthcoming book industries without smo k est acks : industrialization in africa re considered , there is evidence to suggest that sub-saharan africa is undergoing a more profound structural transformation than we think .
africa owes this structural transformation not to traditional industries , but to new developments in tradable services and agro- industries that resemble traditional industrialization .
aside from hor ticul ture and agro- business , these new industries include information and communication technology- based services ( ict ) and tourism .
this is a departure from the historical norm .
traditionally , as harvard university economist dani rodrik points out , economies that have sustained robust growth rates without relying on natural-resource booms , “ typically do so through export-oriented industrialization . ”
but in africa , manufacturing as a share of total economic activity has stagnated at around 10 % , with economic activity moving from agriculture to services .
and because the rate of productivity growth in services is only about half that of manufacturing , the aggregate productivity gains needed for sustained growth have fallen relatively short .
this process of premature de industrialization is not unique to africa .
but it is more consequential for the continent , given the scale of its development challenges .
owing to its young , rapidly growing labor force , africa now needs to create more than 11 million jobs in the formal economy every year .
but as nobel laureate economist joseph e. stiglitz has warned , africa can not replicate east asia ’ s manufactur ing- led model , so the question is whether it can leverage modern services to achieve economic development .
according to foresight africa : top priorities for 2018 , a brookings institution report pre viewing the results of industries without smo k est acks , services exports from africa grew more than six times faster than merchandise exports between 1998 and 2015 .
in kenya , rwanda , senegal , and south africa , the ict sector is flourishing .
in rwanda , tourism is now the single largest export activity , accounting for about 30 % of total exports .
ethiopia , ghana , kenya , and senegal are all integrated into global hor ticul tural value chains , and ethiopia has become a leading player in global flow er exports .
as these smo k est ack - less industries have grown , they have generated new patterns of structural change that are distinct from those of east asia ’ s manufactur ing- led transformation .
but , if properly stewar ded , they could play the same role in africa ’ s development as manufacturing did in east asia .
first , manufacturing has higher productivity than agriculture , and it can absorb a large number of moderately skilled workers migr ating out of the agriculture sector . second , manufacturers benefit from technological transfers from abroad , so their productivity rises in line with global trends .
according to john page , one of the editors of industries without smo k est acks , africa ’ s growing service sectors share these same characteristics .
in addition to being tradable , they have higher productivity and can absorb large numbers of moderately skilled workers .
and like manufacturing , they also benefit from technological change and economies of scale and agg l omer ation .
moreover , africa ’ s smo k est ack - less service sectors have the added advantage of being less vulnerable to automation .
notwithstanding automation ’ s many benefits , it presents challenges for countries where the overriding priority is to create a sufficient number of form al- sector jobs .
while economists have been increasingly confident that africa ’ s development model will be different from that of east asia , they have been less certain about what shape it will take .
an industri es- with out- smo k est acks model offers one possible answer .
from a policy perspective , african leaders should explore more ways to support these industries ’ growth , either through targeted reforms or by incorporating them into national industrialization strategies and broader development agendas .
the development of industries without smo k est acks can occur alongside efforts to develop those with smo k est acks , thus offering a multifaceted approach for africa to achieve structural transformation .
banking on african infrastructure
johannesburg – as the us federal reserve embar ks on the “ great unwinding ” of the stimulus program it began nearly a decade ago , emerging economies are growing anxious that a stronger dollar will adversely affect their ability to service dollar-denominated debt .
but if the fed ’ s ongoing withdrawal of stimulus has fra yed african ner ves , it has also spurred recognition that there are smarter ways to finance development than borrowing in dollars .
of the available options , one specific asset class stands out : infrastructure .
africa , which by 2050 will be home to an estimated 2.6 billion people , is in dire need of funds to build and maintain roads , ports , power grids , and so on .
according to the world bank , africa must spend a staggering $ 93 billion annually to upgrade its current infrastructure ; the vast majority of these funds – some 87 % – are needed for improvements to basic services like energy , water , sanitation , and transportation .
yet , if the recent past is any guide , the capital needed will be difficult to secure .
between 2004 and 2013 , african states closed just 15 8 financing deals for infrastructure or industrial projects , valued at $ 59 billion – just 5 % of the total needed .
given this track record , how will africa fund even a fraction of the world bank ’ s projected requirements ?
the obvious source is institutional and foreign investment .
but , to date , many factors , including poor profit projections and political uncertainty , have limited such financing for infrastructure projects on the continent .
investment in african infrastructure is perceived as simply being too risky .
fortunately , with work , this perception can be overcome , as some investors – such as the african development bank , the development bank of southern africa , and the trade & development bank – have already demonstrated .
companies from the private sector are also prof itably financing projects on the continent .
for example , black rhin o , a fund set up by black stone , one of the world ’ s largest multinational private equity firms , focuses on the development and acquisition of energy projects , such as fuel storage , pipelines , and transmission networks .
but these are the exceptions , not the rule .
fully funding africa ’ s infrastructure shortfall will require attracting many more investors – and swiftly .
to succeed , africa must develop a more coherent and coordinated approach to cour ting capital , while at the same time working to mitigate investors ’ risk exposure .
public-private sector collabor ations are one possibility .
for example , in the energy sector , independent power producers are working with governments to provide electricity to 6 20 million africans living off the grid .
privately funded but government regulated , these producers operate through power purchase agreements , whereby public utilities and regulators agree to purchase electricity at a pre determined price .
there are approximately 130 such producers in sub-saharan africa , valued at more than $ 8 billion .
in south africa alone , 47 projects are underway , accounting for 7,000 mega wat ts of additional power production .
similar private- public partnerships are emerging in other sectors , too , such as transportation .
among the most promising are toll roads built with private money , a model that began in south africa .
not only are these projects , which are slowly appearing elsewhere on the continent , more profitable than most financial market investments ; they are also literally paving the way for future growth .
clearly , africa needs more of these ventures to overcome its infrastructure challenges .
that is why i , along with other african business leaders and policymakers , have called on africa ’ s institutional investors to commit 5 % of their funds to local infrastructure .
we believe that with the right incentives , infrastructure can be an innovative and attractive asset class for those with long-term liabilities .
one sector that could lead the way on this commitment is the continent ’ s pension funds , which , together , possess a balance sheet of about $ 3 trillion .
the 5 % agenda campaign , launched in new york last month , underscores the belief that only a collaborative public-private approach can redress africa ’ s infrastructure shortfall .
but in 2012 , the african union adopted the program for infrastructure development in africa , which kick - started more than 400 energy , transportation , water , and communications projects .
it was a solid start – one that the 5 % agenda seeks to build upon .
but some key reforms will be needed .
a high priority of the 5 % agenda is to assist in up dating the national and regional regulatory frameworks that guide institutional investment in africa .
similarly , new financial products must be developed to give asset owners the ability to allocate capital directly to infrastructure projects .
unlocking new pools of capital will help create jobs , encourage regional integration , and ensure that africa has the facilities to accommodate the needs of future generations .
but all of this depends on persuading investors to put their money into african projects .
as business leaders and policymakers , we must ensure that the conditions for profitability and social impact are not mutually exclusive .
when development goals and profits align , everyone wins .
freeing africa ’ s internet
washington , dc – much to the dis may of the government in addis ababa , “ zone 9 ” has become a household name in ethiopia .
since 2012 , this small group of journ al ist s- tur ne d- online activists has used social media to campaign for political freedoms and civil liberties in their country .
the group ’ s success – measured , for example , by the flood of likes and comments on its facebook page – has come in sp ite of government efforts to silence the writers , including the arrest of six members in 2014 on trumpe d-up terrorism charges .
ethiopia ’ s government is not alone in seeking to consolidate political power by restricting what citizens say online .
across africa , governments are enacting legislation to restrict internet access and out law criticism of elected officials .
digital campaigners face myriad censorship tactics , including “ border gateway protocol ” attacks , “ h tt p thro tt ling , ” and “ deep pac ket inspections . ”
the irony , of course , is that censorship rarely quie ts the disaffected .
rather than qu elling dissent , government intervention only inspires more people to take their grievances to what s app , facebook , twitter , and other social media platforms , where africans are increasingly challenging corrupt governments , exposing rigged elections , and demanding to be heard .
at the moment , however , few of africa ’ s leaders are listening .
leaders in nine of the 18 african countries that held elections in 2016 placed some level of restric tion on the internet to limit dissent .
four days prior to uganda ’ s presidential vote in february , president y ow er i mus ev eni cut access to mobile payment services and social media sites .
in august and september , gab on ’ s president , ali b ong o , seeking to project an atmosphere of calm to the international community , shut down internet access overnight .
then in december , officials in democratic republic of the congo ordered an internet shutdown the day before president joseph k abil a was scheduled to leave office , thereby qu ashing online dissent when he refused to step down .
internet black outs like these violate people ’ s human rights and undermine democratic processes .
last year , the united nations human rights council approved a resolution affir ming that , “ rights that people have offline must also be protected online , in particular freedom of expression . ”
most african governments try to justify internet embar goes by arguing that the restrictions are necessary to ensure public safety and security .
mus ev eni , for example , claimed that blocking internet access was the only way to protect visiting heads of state during his swe ar ing- in ceremony .
but he presented no evidence linking social media acces sibility and security in uganda , or anywhere else .
according to access now , an international advocacy group for digital rights , people typically feel less secure without the internet , because they can not access information or connect with friends and family in times of uncertainty .
in zimbabwe , where president robert mugabe , who is 93 , is expected to run for his eighth term in mid- 2018 , a government- led crackdown appears inevitable .
for decades , mugabe has relied on intimidation and violence to stifle political dissent .
it is not surprising , then , that he has already begun taking a hostile approach to online activism .
last year , his government shut down the internet in the middle of political protests , and vowed to arrest anyone caught generating or sharing “ abusive or subver sive material on social media . ”
but citizens are not helpl ess .
while governments issue orders to cut off internet access , only telecommunications companies have the ability to hit the “ kill switch . ”
that is why africa ’ s bloggers and online activists must work more closely with investors and shareholders of communications firms to convince them to stand up for democracy and human rights by resisting illiberal government directives .
moreover , civil-society groups , the african union , and the un should do more to condemn national legislation that aims to normalize restrictive internet policies .
just as it launched a model law on access to information in 2013 , the african union should provide new guidance to states on how to safeguard the right to assemble and express views online .
finally , new contin ent- wide measures are needed to ensure that africans ’ online rights are recognized and respected by their governments .
although the un human rights council ’ s resolution to protect online freedoms is not binding , it offers a starting point for ensuring that governments allow citizens to use the internet as a tool for maximizing political participation .
such interventions are needed now more than ever .
the kenyan , zimbab we an , and ethi opian legislatures are currently considering laws that would permit significantly greater government control over internet access .
last year , tanzania adopted legislation that has already been used to charge individuals with crimes who have criticized president john mag u fu li on social media .
whether governments bar citizens from gathering in public , signing pe ti tions , or acc essing the internet and po sting on social media makes no difference .
all such measures are designed to strip citizens of their rights .
the battle for freedom , as zone 9 has shown , is no less real when the public square is the digital domain .
capturing africa ’ s high returns
washington , dc – since 2000 , at least half of the world ’ s fastest-growing economies have been in africa .
and by 2030 , africa will be home to 1.7 billion people , whose combined consumer and business spending will total $ 6.7 trillion .
seven years ago , the harvard business review pointed out that africa is also home to many of the world ’ s biggest opportunities .
and yet , despite its tremendous business potential , africa has not risen to the top of western business leaders ’ agendas .
in fact , between 2014 and 2016 , us exports to africa fell by almost half , from $ 38 billion to $ 22 billion .
and while the united kingdom ’ s investments on the continent more than doubled between 2005 and 2014 , reaching £ 4 2.5 billion ( $ 5 7.6 billion ) , only 2.5 % of its total exports are to africa .
western countries are quickly losing ground to china , which increased its exports to africa more than seven fold – to $ 10 3 billion – from 2005 to 2015 .
if western businesses hope to keep up , they will need to tap into the african countries and sectors with the highest potential for growth .
by 2030 , more than half of africa ’ s population will reside in seven countries : nigeria , ethiopia , the democratic republic of congo , egypt , tanzania , kenya , and south africa .
but , more important , 43 % of africans will belong to the middle or upper classes , up from 3 9. 6 % in 2013 , implying considerably higher demand for goods and services .
by 2030 , household consumption is expected to reach $ 2.5 trillion , up from $ 1.1 trillion in 2015 .
but there will also be lucrative opportunities in algeria , angola , ethiopia , ghana , kenya , morocco , sudan , and tunisia .
any one of these countries would be a good bet for companies seeking to enter new markets .
by 2030 , the sectors generating the most value in africa will be food and be ver ages ( $ 7 40 billion ) , education and transportation ( $ 3 97 billion ) , and housing ( $ 3 90 billion ) .
but there will also be strong growth in consumer goods ( $ 3 70 billion ) , hospit ality and recre ation ( $ 2 60 billion ) , health care ( $ 1 75 billion ) , financial services ( $ 85 billion ) , and telecommunications ( $ 65 billion ) .
of course , much of this growth will depend on the african union properly implementing its new continental free trade area , which would create a single market for goods and services , offering corporations many points of entry .
moreover , the cf ta will increase the need for connectivity , so there will be new opportunities to invest in infrastructure and sectors ranging from transportation and energy to information and communications technology ( ict ) and water supplies .
for its part , the african development bank can help investors find promising projects through its program for infrastructure development in africa .
another major growth area between now and 2030 will be in african business -to- business spending , which will reach $ 4.2 trillion , up from $ 1.6 trillion in 2015 .
here , the largest sectors will be agriculture and agricultural processing ( $ 9 15 billion ) , manufacturing ( $ 6 66 billion ) , and construction , utilities , and transportation ( $ 7 84 billion ) , followed by wholesale and retail ( $ 6 65 billion ) , resources ( $ 3 57 billion ) , banking and insurance ( $ 2 49 billion ) , and telecommunications and ict ( $ 7 9.5 billion ) .
the expected growth in agriculture and agricultural processing reflects the fact that food and be ver ages will constitute the largest share of total household spending .
moreover , 60 % of the world ’ s unused arable land is in africa , which still contributes a meager share of worldwide agricultural exports .
that means there is a lot of room for growth .
and , because severe hunger still affects many african countries , investors can even contribute to the public good by investing in fertilizers , machinery , water and irrigation systems , and other areas of the agriculture sector .
as of 2012 , the african countries with the highest agricultural value-added in terms of annual growth included burkina faso , ethiopia , nigeria , mali , mozambique , rwanda , and tanzania .
in addition , angola , morocco , and south africa now all have sizable markets , and have committed to expanding their agricultural sectors .
according to the harvard business review , africa also has the potential to become “ the world ’ s next great manufacturing center . ”
china is expected to lose from 8 5- 100 million low-cost , labor-intensive manufacturing jobs by 2030 , and africa stands to capture many of them .
this helps to explain why manufacturing will be the second-largest sector in terms of business -to- business spending .
another reason is that many of the manufacturing opportunities in africa happen to be in globally competitive sectors such as automobiles and transport equipment , refined petroleum , computers , and office and industrial machinery .
south africa , egypt , and nigeria are already becoming promising places to invest in these areas .
and investors will also be able to find high returns and favorable business environments in ethiopia , morocco , and rwanda .
africa is the world ’ s last frontier market , and western businesses need to start taking advantage of its tremendous potential , as chinese firms already are .
doing business in africa will also create sustainable jobs and advance the united nations sustainable development goals to eliminate poverty and hunger .
and that , too , will be good for the bottom line .
as the business and sustainable development commission has shown , pursuing the sdgs “ could raise trillions in new market opportunities in ways that extend prosperity to all . ”
strengthening african science
urban a , ill in ois – in late march , africa ’ s leading scientists , innovators , and policymakers met in k ig ali , rwanda , to brain storm solutions to an increasingly pressing problem : the low quality of science on the continent .
any good leader knows that scientific discovery and innovation fuels progress , facilitates development , and can help tackle issues like food insecurity , water shortages , and climate change .
and yet most african governments are failing to fund research and development adequately in their countries .
in the west , the share is closer to 3 % .
this disparity underscores the development challenges that africans face .
africa is home to 15 % of the world ’ s population and 5 % of its gdp , but accounts for a paltry 1.3 % of total research spending .
moreover , african inventors hold just 0.1 % of the world ’ s patents , meaning that even when money is spent on science , innovation , and research , the findings rarely translate into solutions for the continent ’ s most immediate challenges .
to be sure , these trends are not universal ; some african governments are investing heavily in sci ence- led innovation .
in south africa , for example , authorities have pledged to double r & d spending by 2020 – to 1.5 % of gdp .
this follows a 2016 commitment by african heads of state to increase science and technology budgets to at least 1 % of gdp by 2025 .
a handful of countries – including kenya , rwanda , and senegal – are working hard to reach this funding threshold .
africa also benefits from generous resear ch- related aid and international support .
one of the top donors , the bill & melinda gates foundation , has invested more than $ 450 million in african science initiatives over the last decade .
projects include a $ 30 6 million program to boost crop yields and a $ 6 2.5 million grant to improve health outcomes .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers develop dr ought- resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education .
unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains .
simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed .
africa ’ s leaders have pool ed their science resources before .
in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’ s development began implementing a contin ent- wide strategy “ to develop and use science and technology for the socioeconomic transformation of the continent and its integration into the world economy . ”
it was an ambitious goal that yielded early results .
between 2005 and 2014 , contin ent- wide spending on r & d increased , while research output more than doubled in many countries .
since then , however , progress has stalled .
the recent meeting in rwanda , hosted by president paul k ag ame and organized by the next einstein forum , was designed to help get the agenda back on track .
but summits are only part of the solution ; governments must also commit to improving research quality , and they can start by focusing attention on three key areas .
first , africa ’ s leaders must engage with ceos , philanthropists , and donors who understand the long-term value of investing in science .
innovation is expensive , and seed money will be needed to help strengthen the continent ’ s scientific capacity .
second , african universities and institutions should align their research agendas with national and regional goals .
for example , given that one of africa ’ s most pressing challenges is feeding its growing population , schools speci alizing in agricultural research should ensure that their work contributes to solutions .
last but not least , countries should encourage entrepreneurship within research organizations .
one way to do this is by establishing commerci alization offices , which could help scientists bring their research to market .
scientists everywhere need help navigating bureaucracy when turning an idea into a commercial venture , and this process is particularly challenging in a region where r & d pipelines are in their inf ancy .
boosting africa ’ s scientific capabilities will require the continent ’ s leaders to do more than ask tough questions at summits ; they must also allocate more funding and forge new partnerships .
the high cost of food monopolies in africa
lag os – in may , global food prices increased 1.2 % , reaching their highest level since october 2017 .
this upward trajectory is having a disproportionate impact in africa , where the share of household income spent on food is also rising .
to ensure food security , governments must work quickly to reverse these trends , and one place to start is by policing the producers who are feeding the frenzy .
according to data comp iled by the world economic forum , four of the world ’ s top five countries in terms of food expenditure are in africa .
nigeria leads the list , with a staggering 5 6.4 % of household income in 2015 spent on food , followed by kenya ( 4 6.7 % ) , camer oon ( 4 5.6 % ) , and algeria ( 4 2.5 % ) .
by comparison , consumers in the united states spend the least globally ( 6.4 % ) , far less than people in emerging economies like brazil ( 16 % ) and india ( 30 % ) .
one reason for the distortion is the price of food relative to income .
as africa urban izes , people are buying more imported sem i - or fully processed foods , which cost more than locally produced foods .
and in most countries , wages have not kept pace with inflation .
but the primary cause is poor public policy : african governments have failed to curb the power of ag ri businesses and large food producers , a lack of oversight that has made local agriculture less competitive .
in turn , prices for most commodities have risen .
the absence of antitrust laws , combined with weak consumer protection , means that in many countries , only two or three major companies control markets for items like salt , sugar , fl our , milk , oil , and tea .
the impact is most pronounced in african cities , where prices for white rice , frozen chicken , bread , but ter , eggs , and even car bon ated soft dr inks are at least 24 % higher than in other cities around the world .
these prices hit consumers both directly and indirectly ( owing to pass - through of higher input costs by food conglomerates and service providers ) .
the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ( fa o ) has long argued that food security and fair pricing depends on markets that are free from monopol istic tendencies .
the oecd con cur s , and has frequently called on authorities to address “ anti- competitive mergers , abuse of dominance , cartels and price fixing , ver tical restraints , and exclusive practices ” in the food sector .
and yet , in many african countries , this advice has rarely been heeded .
to be sure , this is not a new problem .
between 1997 and 2004 , for example , the fa o counted 1 22 allegations of “ anti- competitive practices ” in 23 countries in sub-saharan africa . violations included a “ ver tical monopoly ” in the malawi sugar sector , price fixing in kenya ’ s fertilizer industry , and a “ bu yer cartel ” in the zimbab we an cotton industry .
and , despite the considerable attention such cases have received , the underlying problems persist .
according to the world bank , more than 70 % of african countries rank in the bottom half globally for efforts to protect “ market-based competition . ”
while 27 african countries and five regional blocs do have antitrust laws on the books , enforcement is rare .
the remaining countries have no regulations at all and have made little progress in drafting them .
there is one notable exception : south africa .
since 1998 , the country ’ s competition act has prohibited any company controlling at least 45 % of the market from excluding other firms or seeking to exercise control over pricing .
viol ators face penalties of up to 10 % of their earnings , and during the last two decades , some of the biggest companies in the country – including tiger brands , pioneer foods , and sim e dar by – have been pen alized .
as t emb in ko si bon ak el e , head of south africa ’ s competition commission , noted last year , the government is “ determined to root out exploitation of consumers by cartels , ” especially in the food industry .
other countries should follow south africa ’ s lead .
the need for reform is greatest in countries like nigeria and ghana , where food expenditures are high and food- industry pressure is most pronounced .
fortunately , there is growing recognition of the need to address these challenges .
bab at und e ir uk era , director general of the consumer protection council in nigeria , recently asserted that , “ in a large vibrant and loyal market such as nigeria , the absence of broad competition regulation is tragic .
unregulated markets in competition context constitute the otherwise ‘ legitimate ’ vehicle for both financial and social ex tor tion . ”
reducing the prices of staple food by even a modest 10 % ( far below the average premium cartels around the world charge ) by tackling anti competitive behavior in these sectors , or by reforming regulations that shield them from competition , could lift 2 7 0,000 people in kenya , 200,000 in south africa , and 20,000 in zamb ia out of poverty .
such a policy would save households in these countries over $ 700 million ( 2015 us dollars ) a year , with poor households gaining disproportionately more than rich ones .
ultimately , it is the responsibility of political leaders to protect consumers from collusion and price- fixing .
there is no question that africa ’ s businesses need space to innovate and grow , but their success should never come at the cost of someone else ’ s next meal .
the cancer threat to africa ’ s future
chicago – one of the most pressing public-health challenges in africa today is also one of the least reported : cancer , a leading cause of death worldwide .
every year , some 6 50,000 africans are diagnosed with cancer , and more than a half-million die from the disease .
within the next five years , there could be more than one million cancer deaths annually in africa , a surge in mortality that would make cancer one of the continent ’ s top killers .
throughout sub-saharan africa , tremendous progress has been made in combating deadly infectious diseases .
in recent decades , international and local cooperation have reduced africa ’ s malaria deaths by 60 % , pushed polio to the brink of eradication , and extended the lives of millions of africans infected with hiv/aids .
unfortunately , similar gains have not been made in the fight against non- communicable diseases ( ncds ) , including cancer .
today , cancer kills more people in developing countries than aids , malaria , and tuberculosis combined .
but , with africa receiving only 5 % of global funding for cancer prevention and control , the disease is outpac ing efforts to contain it .
just as the world united to help africa beat infectious disease outbreaks , a similar collaborative approach is needed to halt the cancer crisis .
surviving cancer requires many things , but timely access to specialists , laboratories , and second opinions are among the most basic .
yet , in much of africa , a lack of affordable medications , and a dearth of trained doctors and nurses , means that patients rarely receive the care they need .
on average , african countries have fewer than one trained path ologist for every million people , meaning that most diagnoses come too late for treatment .
according to university of chicago on c ologist ol u fun mil ay o ol op ade , a diagnosis of cancer in africa is “ nearly always fatal . ”
building health-care systems that are capable of managing infectious diseases , while also providing quality cancer care , requires a significant investment in time , money , and expertise .
fortunately , africa already has a head start .
past initiatives – like the global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , the us president ’ s emergency plan for aids relief , and the world bank ’ s east africa public health laboratory networking project – have greatly expanded the continent ’ s medical infrastructure .
national efforts are also strengthening pharmaceutical supply chains , improving medical training , and increasing the quality of diagnostic networks .
still , africans can not face down this threat alone .
that is why the american society for clinical path ology , where i work , is cooperating with other global health-care innovators to attack the region ’ s growing cancer crisis .
we have te amed up with the american cancer society ( ac s ) and the pharmaceutical company novartis to support cancer treatment and testing efforts in four countries : ethiopia , rwanda , tanzania , and uganda .
to complement these technical efforts , the ac s is also training african health-care professionals how to carry out biop sies and deliver chemotherapy .
that initiative , funded by novartis , is viewed as a pilot program that could expand to other regional countries .
finally , our organizations are advocating for enhanced canc er- treatment guidelines in national health-care planning efforts , protocols that we believe are essential to improving health outcomes .
these initiatives are in conjunction with other under ta kings , such as a joint ac s- clinton health access initiative program to broaden access to cancer medications .
when the world took notice that infectious diseases like hiv/aids , polio , and malaria were rav aging africa , action plans were drawn up and solutions were delivered .
today , a similar global effort is needed to ensure that every african with a cancer diagnosis can get the treatment they need .
now , as then , success depends on coordination among african governments , health- service providers , drug makers , and non-governmental organizations .
there is no place on earth that is immune from the dre ad of a cancer diagnosis ; wherever the news is delivered , it is often devastating to recipients and their families .
but geography should never be the deciding factor in patients ’ fight to survive the disease .
cancer has been africa ’ s silent killer for far too long , and the global health community must no longer remain quiet in the face of this crisis .
investing in africa ’ s educators
johannesburg – improving education is a slow , ar du ous , long-term undertaking everywhere , and nowhere more so than in africa , where tight economic constraints often prevent sustained investment in human capital .
those who work in the education sector on the continent have to seek solutions that are faster , cheaper , and can be scaled up .
too often , though , expedient approaches prove shortsighted , and fail to engage local leaders who hold the keys to economic and social progress .
too often , grass ro ot s- level voices , reflecting firsthand experience addressing their communities ’ problems , are ignored .
when global leaders gather in hamburg this week for the g20 summit , the new g 20- africa partnership will take center stage .
but those committed to helping africa should focus squarely on the nu ts and bol ts of aid and development – and that means investing in local leadership .
sadly , the best- funded aid organizations in africa are often run by westerners , or by africans who have extensive ties to the west .
i recently spoke to several entrepreneurs who shared anec do tal evidence that organizations in africa with a western co- founder raise more than twice the funds of african- run organizations .
this financial prejudice is visible elsewhere , too , and it is perpetuating the dearth of local talent .
the pro-western bias should worry everyone working to build better communities for our children .
when it comes to addressing social issues – whether it ’ s educational in equity , poverty , or discrimination – the most committed advocates are those who have first- hand knowledge of the problem they seek to solve .
personal experience is the best way to create agents for change , because it underpins people ’ s long-term , personal investment in dismantling systems that exacerbate in equity and injustice .
what would it look like if the leaders overhauling such systems were cultivated from the very communities that needed them most ?
some organizations are answering that question already .
more than 1 2,000 people have applied to join teach for nigeria , a national organization that recruits , trains , and places young teachers in high- need schools .
the program , designed as a fel low ship , will choose fewer than 60 of nigeria ’ s brightest university graduates and professionals , not only to develop excellent classroom teachers , but also to empower the next generation of social entrepreneurs committed to tackling in equity and deeply connected to local efforts already underway in communities across their country .
after their two-year teaching commitment , which begins in september , these up -and- coming leaders will join a worldwide movement of over 5 5,000 people who have completed the fel low ship in over 40 countries , including the 30 fel lows already hard at work next door at teach for ghana .
we call this powerful grouping of change- agents “ collective leadership , ” and we believe it is the only way to ensure positive , lasting change .
the second is the failure to invest in children .
in uganda , 70 % of children do not complete primary school .
basic education is the foundation for our lifelong ability to analyze information , present ideas and opinions , and challenge the world around us .
and yet , in too many african communities , we are failing to invest in laying those foundations .
across the continent , educational attainment is sharply str ati fied : while 82 % of children from the wealthiest families complete primary school , only 28 % of children from the poorest families do .
if the future of the continent is to be shaped by , or with , those who have most acutely experienced its challenges , programs like teach for nigeria and teach for ghana are essential .
imagine what could be accomplished if efforts to place local recruits in low-income schools were expanded .
imagine how many opportunities to address the challenges facing children and families could be created , potentially reaching hundreds of thousands of children who are also inspired and encouraged to think critically and resolve the problems affecting the world around them .
some argue that education is meaningless if graduates can not find work ; in fact , job creation in africa will be a major topic of discussion at the g20 summit .
but while investment in business development and job creation is crucial for economic vitality and growth , it won ’ t happen without an educated workforce .
a robust job market presupposes a sufficient number of skilled workers to fill available jobs .
but in sub-saharan africa , only 58 % of children complete primary school .
this is why , when g20 leaders discuss new economic development strategies for africa , they should focus on investment in education .
but , more important , they should seek to ensure that resources make it to those who rely on local leadership and innovation .
sustainable development goal 4 – to ensure equitable and inclusive education for all by 2030 – is attainable , but only if solutions come from the ground up , which means from the africans most committed to them .
empowering the other half of africa ’ s economy
johannesburg – juli us ny er ere , the founding president of tanzania , once said that “ unity ” will not make africa rich , but “ it can make it difficult for africa and the african peoples to be disregarded and humiliated . ”
but , two decades later , africa remains divided along a key fault line : gender .
to realize ny er ere ’ s vision of a strong , dignified continent , africa needs a new era of liberation , one that is fueled by the economic empowerment of the continent ’ s women .
although projections by the consul t ancy mckinsey anticipate that by 2040 , africa will have the world ’ s largest labor force , with more than 1.1 billion people of working age , more than 60 % of africa ’ s current population still survive on less than $ 2 a day .
it is obvious that while many africans have benefited from political emancip ation – the legacy of ny er ere ’ s generation – poverty remains a significant obstacle .
unleashing the employment potential of african women is the best way to overcome it .
as it stands , africa ’ s women continue to be under represented in key industries and executive roles , owing to workplace discrimination and patri arch al expectations at home .
unless barriers to entering the formal economy are removed and women are presented with options that enable them to realize their full potential , africa ’ s socioeconomic development will continue to be impeded .
but while women are essential to the continent ’ s progress , they are still too often regarded as being secondary .
women must therefore claim their right to sit where decisions are made , and to shape the policies , plans , and strategies that will affect their lives and the lives of africans for generations to come .
studies have shown that if more women had access to mal e- dominated occupations in africa , worker productivity would rise by as much as 25 % .
that would be good for the overall economy , but also for women in general , as it would open up new avenues for social empowerment .
when women participate in the job market and engage actively in business or political decision-making , patri arch al power dynamics shift , elev ating the social status of women .
in other words , bringing more women into the workplace leads to an emancip ation of mindset – in men and women alike .
what ny er ere so eloqu ently said of africa as a whole is no less true for its women : unity is the key to realizing our potential .
when we come together as gener ators of wealth , it becomes impossible for us to go un recognized for our economic contributions and marginalized in our entrepreneurial endeav ours .
at the gra ç a mach el trust , we are joining together with civil-society actors , the private sector , and governments across the continent to lead a new economic liberation movement for women .
divided , we are weak , but together , africa ’ s women have the ability to confront and overcome the barriers that have kept us from full participation in our respective economies .
there is power in networks .
my organization ’ s approach to economic advancement is to establish and strengthen informal and official networks , through which women can , in time , increase their participation and vis ibility in key sectors .
that is why we are launching the “ women advancing africa ” initiative , which is part of our ongoing effort to amplify the voices of africa ’ s under represented and to establish a pan- african women ’ s movement , in which women can come together to transform the continent .
the inaugural women advancing africa forum will take place this week in d ar es sal a am , tanzania , and will convene more than 250 women leaders from across the continent .
under the overarching theme of “ driving social and economic transformation , ” the forum will focus on three strategic goals : promoting financial inclusion , increasing market access , and driving social change .
we aim to emerge from the forum with a common agenda for our participation as full economic actors .
it has been just over 20 years since ny er ere encouraged us to work toward african unity .
today , africa ’ s women are helping to shape the policies and practices that will bring about economic and social liberation in their respective countries .
we have some way to go before african unity is fully realized .
but enabling women to become full partners in africa ’ s economic future , is among the best ways to ensure that we succeed .
capit alizing on africa ’ s youth dividend
tor onto – when south african university students took to the streets in 2016 as part of the “ fees must fall ” protest movement , the “ dec ol onization of the curriculum ” was among the movement ’ s chief concerns .
it was a pivotal moment in south africa ’ s history , as young people rose to demand quality and accessible education .
but a crucial question was missing from the debate over fees and curric ular relevance : how can changes to higher education empower africa ’ s youth to drive the continent ’ s economic transformation ?
for africa , the question is no longer “ if ” students are taught , but “ what . ”
unfortunately , while access to education has improved significantly in recent decades , school curricula have changed little since the colonial era , when secondary education was an elite privilege designed to advance the careers of a select few .
technical and vocational education and training ( t vet ) programs have also suffered from neglect .
today , these initiatives are marked by outdated courses and rote learning methods that fail to prepare young people for the demands of the twenty-first-century job market .
the trouble goes beyond traditional components of the curriculum , like math , science , and language . there is also a deficiency in critical “ soft ” skills , such as communication , te am work , and problem solving .
though neglected , it is these skills that enable young people to become adap table , lifelong lear ners .
the mastery of soft skills cor relates to improved outcomes in school , work , and life .
yet , until recently , training in soft skills has not been integrated into formal education systems on the continent .
fortunately , that is changing .
across the continent , secondary schools and t vet systems are transforming themselves to prepare africa ’ s young minds with the skills they need to make the transition from school to employment , and to become more engaged citizens .
in particular , these changes mean more opportunity for young people as they prepare to enter the job market .
but to succeed on the job , young people must have the skills and education that a modern economy requires .
at the master card foundation , where i manage education and learning programs , we ’ ve put together a blueprint – called skills at scale – to help african educators revitalize their curricula to capitalize more effectively on the economic potential of youth .
one of the continent ’ s most successful efforts already underway is the us a id- funded ak az i k ano ze youth livelihoods project , designed by the education development center ( ed c ) in boston .
ak az i k ano ze epitom izes how a small initiative can catalyze wider educ ation- sector reform , by emphasizing links to local employers that provide access to entr y- level jobs , intern ships , and apprenti c es hi ps .
the focus on personal development , inter personal communication , and leadership training has ensured that students are well equipped to enter the labor market upon graduation .
rwanda ’ s ministry of education has already moved to integrate elements of the program in t ve ts across the country .
the government recently integrated ak az i k ano ze ’ s approach in the national curriculum to equip secondary and t vet students with the soft skills they require to succeed .
national ex ams in the 201 8- 2019 academic year will also reflect the new compet ency- based curriculum .
since 2009 , ak az i k ano ze train ings have prepared more than 3 7,000 youth for work , with more than 65 % of participants in the initial round of training employed six months after graduation .
based on the success of integrating soft skills into the curriculum in rwanda , the master card foundation and ed c will launch a similar program in senegal later this year .
case studies from skills at scale highlight six components to a successful skill s- training initiative .
these include an enabling policy environment , in which the government is supportive and sets clear goals for education sector reform ; vocal backing for these changes from strong political champions ; wide stakeholder engagement , especially in the design and implementation phases of the reform ; decentralization of authority for education ; flexibility on the part of donors ; and the ability to measure the changes ’ impact on youth employment and entrepreneurship .
change is not without challenge .
adapting models of skills training to vastly different education systems across africa will take time .
it will also be difficult to ensure that intensive training models reach all young people , including those no longer in school .
experience in rwanda shows that curriculum re design requires close cooperation with education and workforce development authorities , as well as government officials , teachers , and school administrators .
new curriculum content also requires developing new teaching and learning materials .
achieving scale also requires a markedly different approach to training teachers than is currently on offer in most african school systems .
train ings must go beyond traditional , one-off approaches , by providing ongoing teacher support .
new ped agog ies also require contin ual supervision and practice , especially early on .
the old “ casc ade ” model of teacher training simply won ’ t work .
african governments , with support from the international community , can help students ’ transition from school to work by relying on a curriculum that elev ates the importance of soft skills .
if done well , these changes can ensure young people are positioned to drive africa ’ s future prosperity .
africans deserve a forward-looking education system , not one that remains stuck in the past .
as students in south africa demonstrated last year , the continent ’ s youth will settle for nothing less .
a big bond for africa
lag os – the countries of sub-saharan africa have reached a critical juncture .
strained by a collapse in commodity prices and china ’ s economic slowdown , the region ’ s growth slipped to 3.4 % in 2015 – nearly 50 % lower than the average rate over the previous 15 years .
sustained economic growth is essential to maintain progress on reducing poverty , infant mortality , disease , and malnutrition .
it is also the only way to create sufficient good jobs for africa ’ s burgeoning youth population – the fastest growing in the world .
as ger d m ü l ler , germany ’ s development minister , noted at a recent press conference , “ if the youth of africa can ’ t find work or a future in their own countries , it won ’ t be hundreds of thousands , but millions that make their way to europe . ”
one way to sustain growth and create jobs would be to collaborate on planning and implementing a massive increase in infrastructure investment across africa .
public infrastructure is particularly important .
this includes highways , bridges , and railways linking rural producers in land locked countries to africa ’ s urban consumers and external markets ; mass transit and internet infrastructure to accommodate greater commercial activity ; and electricity transmission lines integrating privately financed power plants and grids .
major regional projects are also needed to knit together sub-saharan africa ’ s many tiny economies .
this is the only way to create the economies of scale needed to increase the export potential of african agriculture and industry , as well as to reduce domestic prices of food and manufactured goods .
while governments in africa are spending more on public infrastructure themselves , outside finance is still required , especially for regional projects , which are rarely a top priority for national governments .
yet aid from africa ’ s traditionally generous foreign donors , including the united states and europe , is now set to shrink , owing to political and economic constraints .
but there may be a solution that helps africa recover its growth in a way that western leaders and their constituents find acceptable .
we call it the “ big bond ” – a strategy for leveraging foreign aid funds in international capital markets to generate financing for massive infrastructure investment .
specifically , donors would borrow against future aid flows in capital markets .
that way , they could exploit current low interest rates at home , as they generate new resources .
with 30-year us treasury rates of about 3 % , donors would have to secur itiz e only about $ 5 billion to raise $ 100 billion .
that money could come from the $ 35 billion in annual official development assistance ( oda ) to africa ( which tot als about $ 50 billion ) that takes the form of pure grants .
donors would pass on the interest cost to african countries , reducing their own fiscal costs .
for african countries , the terms would be better than those provided by eurobonds .
in fact , as aud acious as it may sound , passing on the interest costs to recipient countries could actually bolster their debt sustainability .
according to a study of eight countries by the african development bank ’ s policy innovation lab , a 3 % interest rate in us dollar terms would be lower than the marginal cost of commercial borrow ings undertaken by several african countries over the last five years .
moreover , far longer maturities and grace periods , compared to market finance , would ease growing pressure on foreign-exchange reserves .
front loading aid in this way is not new .
doing so in the early 2000s to finance vaccines saved millions of lives in the developing world .
big bond resources , managed by the african development bank , could be used to help guarantee financing for major regional infrastructure projects that have long been stuck on the back bur ner , such as the east africa railway connecting tanzania , rwanda , and bur un di , and a highway stretching from nigeria to côte d ’ ivoire .
such projects could also be co- financed by private investors .
moreover , the big bond could help to reinvigorate the relationship between donors and african countries .
and , as it supports investments with important country- level benefits , it could serve as an incentive for african countries to pursue reforms that increase their absor ptive capacity , in terms of choosing and executing public infrastructure investments .
the big bond approach represents a much-needed update to the oda framework – one that supports higher and more sustainable growth in recipient countries , while lowering the burden on donor countries .
at a time when aid is under political pressure , perhaps such a bold approach to maximizing the efficiency of donor resources is exactly what the world needs .
paris – for much of africa , the transition from fossil fuels to cleaner forms of energy is seen as an environmental imperative .
with fossil fuels comprising a majority – as high as 70 % in some cases – of the energy mix , the situation on the continent is indeed ec ologically dire .
but africa ’ s energy transition is economically urgent as well .
each year , oil subsidies consume 1.5 % of the continent ’ s gdp – roughly $ 50 billion .
that is enough money to provide solar power to some 300 million people .
if the continent could rebalance its energy portfolio , moving away from hydrocarbons slowly , those subsidies could be real located in ways that would yield both environmental and economic benefits .
today , neither oil exporters nor importers are adequately insulated from price shocks .
when oil prices declined rapidly in 2015 , for example , africa ’ s energy importers spent less on oil , while exporting countries suffered financially .
when prices reb ounded , the relationship switched : energy- exporting countries ’ revenues in ched up , while importing countries struggled to maintain consumption levels .
this is a needless cycle .
integrating cleaner power into national energy systems would not only raise local capacities ; it would also free up hydrocarbons for export .
the resulting revenue could then be invested into new forms of greener power .
such a transition , which would require cooperation with the oil sector , promises to boost socioeconomic progress .
among the biggest benefits would be the electrification of areas that , under current distribution systems , are literally in the dark .
today , just 30 % of africa has access to reliable electricity .
but , with a total capacity estimated at around ten ter awat ts , installed solar capacity in africa could broaden access dramatically .
in fact , according to some estimates , the increase in solar generation by 2030 could range from 15 to 62 gig awat ts .
fossil fuels are not destined to be phased out anytime soon , but an energy mix that included a significant increase in solar power would have major economic advantages for africa , especially in areas where agriculture is the largest economic sector .
electr ifying agricultural areas would facilitate the storage and transportation of farm ed products , improve food security , and increase farmers ’ earning capacity .
in the drive to rebalance africa ’ s energy mix , the continent maintains one crucial advantage over developed economies : a clean s late .
the relative absence of legacy investments is the principal reason why green power is africa ’ s best energy option .
although every country must balance its own energy needs , reliance on renewable sources , and solar power in particular , is the most cost- efficient strategy for fostering rapid economic development throughout the continent .
evidence of this potential can be found in the few photo volta ic power plants that have begun operating in africa .
for example , the s energy 2 solar plant in senegal sells electricity to the sen egal ese power utility at a price that lowers the cost of the energy mix by 50 % .
similar solar solutions are being implemented by african telecoms to electr ify communication tow ers .
the best way to accelerate the transition from hydrocarbons to greener forms of energy would be to redirect a portion of national oil subsidies to renewables .
this would create stronger incentives to reduce fossil-fuel consumption , while encouraging investment and growth in green- energy output .
for africa ’ s rural regions , moreover , such policies would help bring communities out of darkness and lead to the install ation of other critical infrastructure that economic growth requires .
but while renewables hold the key to africa ’ s long-term prosperity , the continent ’ s transition to cleaner power should not lead to an immediate , full-scale repudiation of hydrocarbons .
the industry ’ s experience on the continent will be needed to navigate the energy transformation .
and , because fossil fuels will remain part of the continent ’ s energy mix , the oil sector must be encouraged to clean up its own act .
this may sound like an impossible alliance .
but as policymakers across the continent seek to secure adequate supplies of clean energy to ensure rapid , inclusive economic growth and environmental sustainability , they are likely to find that there is no alternative .
cooperation between old and new energy industries may be the only engine that is capable of powering africa forward .
africa ’ s vaccination test
boston – in february in addis ababa , african health ministers signed a widely celebrated declaration of their commitment to keeping immunization at the forefront of efforts to save the continent ’ s children from death and disease .
fulfilling that commitment will be no easy feat .
immunization is not just a health issue ; it is also an economic challenge .
the case for vaccination is strong .
globally , an estimated 2-3 million child deaths and 600,000 adult deaths are prevented annually through immunization .
moreover , immunization is considered one of the most cost-effective public-health interventions for reducing child mor b idity , mortality , and disability .
a recent study estimates that every dollar spent on vaccination will save $ 16 in costs of illnesses averted .
accounting for the value individuals place on longer and healthier lives , net returns on investments in immunization soar to some 44 times the cost .
and net returns exceed costs for all vaccines .
significant progress has been made .
in 2014 , 86 % of children were immun ized against di ph ther ia , te tan us , and per tus s is , compared to less than 5 % in 1974 .
and there have been extraordinary advances in the number and kinds of vaccines that are available .
yet , worldwide , an estimated 18 . 7 million infants are not being reached by routine immunization services .
the problem , of course , is access .
detailed analysis of immunization reveals significant disparities within and across countries .
more than 60 % of the non- immun ized infants live in just ten countries : the democratic republic of the congo ( drc ) , ethiopia , india , indonesia , iraq , nigeria , pakistan , philippines , uganda , and south africa .
routine immunization coverage remains particularly low in africa ; indeed , it has stagnated over the last three years , against a backdrop of weak and under- resour ced health systems .
as a result , one in five african children still do not receive lifes aving vaccination .
in 2014 , an estimated 42 % of all global deaths from measles were in africa .
most of africa ’ s under- immun ized children live in nigeria , ethiopia , the drc , south sudan , and guinea .
poor people , those living in rural areas , and families with lower education levels comprise the majority of those who are not reached .
clearly , money is a leading factor shaping immunization outcomes .
beyond inadequately financed health systems , which remain weak and inefficient , especially in rural areas , african countries face challenges in affor ding new , more expensive vaccines .
yet mé dec ins s ans fronti è res estimates that the introduction of new vaccines made it 68 times more expensive to vacc inate a child in 2014 than in 2001 in most african countries .
another study showed that in 2001 , the total cost of the original set of six world health organiz ation- recommended vaccines was less than one dollar .
in 2014 , the number of wh o- recommended vaccines had risen to 11 – and the cost had reached about $ 21 for boys and $ 35 for girls .
the added costs of delivery , currently estimated at about $ 25 per child , bring the total cost of fully immun izing a child today to $ 50- 60 .
that same study found that , in many low- and middle-income countries , immunization budgets are currently insufficient to sustain vaccination programs , much less incorporate the new cost lier vaccines .
as several health ministers pointed out in addis ababa , high vaccine prices force poor countries ’ governments to make tough choices about which deadly diseases they can afford to prevent .
for some countries , the situation is about to get worse , as gavi , the international group which has helped to finance the dramatic global expansion of new vaccines , phases out support for countries deemed to have “ gradu ated ” from assistance .
without eligibility for the lower prices obtained by gavi , many of these countries may not be able to afford newer vaccines .
in order to cope with this challenge , african political leaders have committed to invest in the continent ’ s capacity to develop and produce its own vaccines .
but this is a long-term strategy that will require coordinated regional investment planning , market development , and stronger regulatory capabilities .
in the short to medium term , african countries would do well to look into the power of collective bargaining to strike better deals for needed vaccines .
while africa can and should do more to improve vaccination , the global community also has a responsibility to make a concerted effort to bring down vaccine costs .
the recently announced reduction in the price of p neu mo coc cal vaccine is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough .
without collective action , equitable and sustained access to immunization in africa will remain a major problem – and children ’ s lives will continue to be lost .
africa ’ s avoidable aids crisis
new york – at uganda ’ s largest aids clinic , i recently witnessed a remarkable celebration of life . the per form ers were a trou pe of young african sing ers , dr um mers and d anc ers , ranging in age from roughly eight to 28 .
“ this is a land , ” they sang ,
“ where beautiful people
l augh and dance in harmony .
africa .
o africa . ”
and , indeed , these young people laugh ed and d anced not only in harmony but with a jo ie de viv re that lit up their faces and filled us all with happiness .
listening , it was hard to imagine that they could easily be dead – and would be , if not for this clinic .
each of those spl en did per form ers is living with hiv .
some arrived at the clinic so ill that they could scarcely walk .
others showed few symptoms but , having tested positive , came to be treated .
they were mothers and fathers , sist ers and brothers , children and grandparents .
all were alive and healthy for one reason only : the joint clinical research center in k amp ala , and the drugs that it provides them .
uganda was the epicenter of the aids epidemic . there the scourge began in ear nest ; there ( as elsewhere in africa ) it exac ts its highest toll .
a decade ago , fewer than 10,000 people were taking the new generation of antiretroviral drugs that suppress the disease and offer the promise of a normal life .
today , that figure is 200,000 , thanks in large measure to generous support from the united states ( under its pe p far program ) and the global fund in geneva .
we have seen similarly encouraging progress elsewhere .
botswana , among others , has invested heavily to offer universal treatment , and now is well on its way to ensuring that no baby is born with hiv – a reality in developed countries , but not so in africa , where 400,000 children are born with the disease each year .
south africa , with the largest number of people living with hiv , has spent nearly $ 1 billion over the past year in an ambitious counsel ing and testing campaign to roll back the epidemic .
but there is a new and growing danger that these advances might not be sustained .
peter mu gy en yi , who runs the joint clinical research center , told me that part of the problem is the sheer weight of numbers .
in uganda , only about half of those with hiv/aids are being treated .
meanwhile , money for treatment is dr ying up .
because of the global recession , some international donors are threatening to cap their financial support .
countries such as malawi , zimbabwe , and kenya , as well as uganda , are requ esting assistance for emergency drug supplies .
in k amp ala , dr . mu gy en yi has begun placing new patients on a waiting list .
as many as seven million africans who should be getting treatment for hiv are not .
worldwide , the number is about 10 million .
compounding the problem : donors have also been shifting their focus from aids to other diseases , because there is a sense that more lives can be saved more cheaply .
at a time when we should be scaling up to meet the aids challenge , we are di aling back .
in our global war on aids , the international community is on the verge of s nat ching defeat from the ja ws of victory .
those who rallied to the fight are alarmed . they fear that the impressive gains of the last decade will be lost .
“ we are sitting on a time bomb , ” dr . mu gy en yi told me .
every day , he is forced into moral choices that no one should have to make .
how do you choose to treat a young girl but not her little brother ?
how do you turn away a pregnant mother , sitting with her children , cr ying for help ?
surely we can do better .
in k amp ala , i promised my young friends that i would do everything i could to help .
in washington recently , the united nations rolled out an action plan that should dramatically accelerate progress on maternal and child health , including hiv .
at the international aids conference in vienna , in july , i hope that the international community will rally around un aids ’ launch of treatment 2.0 — the next generation of hiv treatment , which must be more affordable , more effective , and accessible to all .
as chair of this year ’ s repl en ishment of the global fund , i urge all donors to see to it that countries such as uganda get the support they need , so that dr . mu gy en yi and other front- line soldiers in the fight against aids need not make those difficult choices .
i left uganda with a s nat ch of song that still echoes within my heart .
its inherent truth would be obvious , had you been there to see :
to our countries , to our families .
all we need is a way to live our days ,
all we need is to survive in africa .
yes , times are hard .
that is all the more reason to act out of compassion and with generosity .
africa ’ s diaspora to the rescue
d ak ar – there is something dis m ally familiar about the tide of news reports concerning africa ’ s increased suffering – more poverty , malnutrition , civil strife , and death – in the face of the recent global financial crisis .
almost everywhere , the media translates academic conclusions into graphic illustr ations of brutality and despair in places such as guinea and the democratic republic of congo .
but there is another , woefully under- reported , side to the story .
african countries that were locked out of international capital markets for most of the past five decades have largely been spared the twin woes of financial turmoil and economic downturn .
the continent ’ s economies experienced a slowdown , but not a recession .
indeed , according to mckinsey & company , africa was the third-largest contributor to world economic growth in 2009 , after china and india .
moreover , several african countries have received ratings from credit agencies , which has opened up global financial centers to them .
in some cases , these ratings have proved equivalent to or higher than those of countries such as turkey or argentina .
stock exchanges are being established across the continent .
furthermore , countries such as china , india , and brazil has provided a platform for increased exports and the inception of a model of cooperation based on trade , investment , and technology transfer , rather than “ aid . ”
china- africa trade alone increased from $ 10 billion in 2000 to $ 10 7 billion in 2008 , and billions of dollars are being invested in oil production , mining , transportation , electricity generation and transmission , telecommunications , and other infrastructure .
these developments have combined to improve african countries ’ macroeconomic performance dramatically .
inflation has been halved since the 1990 ’ s , and foreign-exchange reserves have increased 30 % .
public finances showed a 2.8 % -of-gdp surplus in 2008 , compared to a 1.4 % -of-gdp deficit in 2000- 2005 .
savings rates are between 10 % and 20 % , and external debt has decreased from 110 % of gdp in 2005 to 21 % in 2008 .
since 2000 , sub-saharan african countries have achieved economic growth of 5- 7 % .
many factors have contributed to this upturn .
emerging-market demand has pushed up commodity prices .
urbanization has given rise to a dynamic informal sector .
improved governance , higher food production , increased inter- regional trade , debt canc ellation , better use of official development assistance ( oda ) , and thriving telecommunications and housing markets have helped as well .
but transfers from the african diaspora stand out as the most significant contributing factor .
a study commissioned by the ro me -based international fund for agricultural development indicates that more than 30 million individuals living outside their countries of origin contribute more than $ 40 billion annually in remittances to their families and communities back home .
for sub-saharan african countries , remittances increased from $ 3.1 billion in 1995 to $ 18 .5 billion in 2007 , according to the world bank , representing between 9 % and 24 % of gdp and 8 0- 750 % of oda .
in this respect , there are three different strategies in place in africa .
the ang l oph one strategy focuses on freeing up the remitt ance market by encouraging competition , relaxing regulatory constraints for non- bank operators , offering financial incentives , encouraging technical and financial innovation , and stimulating collaboration among market players .
this approach , also adopted by italy , contributes to reducing costs and increasing the overall volume of funds for beneficiaries .
the his panic approach emphasizes migrants ’ involvement in banking by offering a range of banking services in both the country of origin and the host country , products of specific interest to migrants , and low commissions on foreign transfers .
this approach , widely developed by morocco and the portugu ese- speaking world , is epitom ized by the zero- commission policy initiated by the spanish bank s ant ander and its mor oc can counterpart , at ti j ari w af a bank .
finally , the franc oph one approach relies on two types of monopoly .
the first is enjoyed by western union , which controls up to 90 % of the total formal transfer volume within africa ’ s 16 - member franc zone .
western union charges fees as high as 25 % on transfers to these countries , compared to an average global benchmark of 5 % , and has required that franc - zone countries sign exclu sivity agreements , thereby preventing foreign-exchange bure au x , post offices , and micro- finance institutions from carrying out money transfers .
the second monopoly is exercised in the banking sector .
france has a veto within the boards of directors of the franc zone ’ s two central banks , while two french commercial banks , bn p- par ib as and soci é t é g é né r ale , exercise a quasi- monopoly on lending programs , mainly centered on short-term trade financing and the needs of governments , public and private companies , and the elite .
all other local banks have adopted the same approach , severely restricting access to financial services for households and entrepreneurs .
despite the increasing importance of remittances from italy , spain , and the united states , the largest share in absolute terms still origin ates from france .
there is thus a real need in the franc zone for a financing institution that would convert migrant remittances into productive investments , thereby generating jobs and wealth , and that would broaden access to banking services , mortgages , insurance products , pension plans , and technical assistance .
official statistics for 2009 are likely to show that migrants ’ remittances fell sharply , as the global recession severely eroded job opportunities abroad .
that makes it all the more important that african countries , many of which have laid a strong groundwork for sustainable growth , have a financial system in place that can leverage remittances effectively as the global economy recovers .
africa ’ s dictator - diplomat
brussels – the recent death in brussels of ethi opian prime minister mel es zen awi finally brings to light what lay behind his mysterious two- month disappearance from public life .
ethiopia ’ s government had str en uously denied rumors of serious ill health caused by liver cancer .
now that the worst has , indeed , proven true , ethiopia and all of east africa will need to learn to live without the stabilizing influence of its great dictator - diplomat .
mel es was certainly both .
ethiopia has undergone a remarkable transformation under his strongman rule since 1991 , when his ti gra yan minority group from the country ’ s north came to power with the overthrow of the o dious communist der g led by m eng ist u ha ile mari am ( still enjoying a comfortable retirement in robert mugabe ’ s zimbabwe ) .
initially serving as the president of the first post- der g government , and then as ethiopia ’ s prime minister from 1995 until his death , mel es ( his n om de guer re in the revolution ) over saw 7.7 % annual gdp growth in recent years .
strong economic performance is somewhat surprising , given his party ’ s interventionist policy approach , but mel es showed himself to be a consum mate pragm atist in attracting investment – particularly from china – to drive growth .
mel es ’ s own political prov en ance as the leader of the ti gra yan people ’ s liberation front was marx ist- leninist .
but , when the cold war ended , so , too , did his dog m atism .
to his credit , child mortality was reduced by 40 % under his government ; ethiopia ’ s economy became more diversified , with new industries like car manufacturing , be ver ages , and flor ic ulture ; and major infrastructure projects , including africa ’ s largest hydro electric dam , were launched .
once a bas ke t- case associated in the world ’ s eyes only with famine and drought , ethiopia has become one of africa ’ s largest economies – and without the benefit of gold or oil .
perhaps more important than mel es ’ s domestic achievements was his diplomatic record .
he was an indispensable ally of the west in the fight against islamist terrorism , culminating in ethiopia ’ s military operation in neighboring somalia in 2006 .
at the same time , mel es cour ted china as both an investor and as a hedge against the west ’ s criticism of his human-rights record .
and yet he controversi ally but rightly held out a hand of friendship to the break away region of som al il and , before it became fashionable , and went as far as he could short of formal re- recognition of that ray of democratic hope in the horn of africa .
mel es will be sorely missed in har ge is a , as he planned to run a chinese- financed gas pipeline through som al il and territory from the og ad en to the coast .
more important , mel es put addis ababa on the map as the home of the african union , and as a capital where africa ’ s worst problems could be discussed in a pragmatic manner , un burdened by colonial grudg es .
mel es himself became a major diplomatic player , particularly over climate-change policy , and most recently was active in medi ating border and natural-resource disputes between sudan and the newly independent ( and oil-rich ) south sudan .
he will be remembered for accepting the painful secession of erit rea in 1993 , rather than prolong the civil war , and for his efforts to reach an agreement with egypt over the use of the blue n ile waters .
the great st ain on mel es ’ s record will always be his intolerance of dissent .
to be sure , his human-rights record was far better than the der g ’ s .
for example , he allowed a private press to flourish , and in 2000 he became the first ethi opian leader to hold multi- party parliamentary elections .
moreover , compared to neighboring erit rea under president is ai as af e wer ki or om ar al- bashir ’ s sudan , his regime was by no means the worst off ender in the region .
nor was there much evidence of personal enrichment or widespread corruption .
nevertheless , following a violently contested parliamentary election in 2005 , in which more than 30 parties participated , mel es demonstrated open contempt for democratic pluralism and press freedom , j ailing several journalists in recent years .
at the same time , he imposed increasingly strict central control on his ethnically and lingu istically diverse country .
although nom in ally governed by “ ethnic federalism , ” where this threatened secession , as in or om ia or the og ad en , mel es was quick to ignore the constitutional set- up .
although he strengthened religious freedom and peaceful coexistence between muslims and christians , the human-rights situation in ethiopia remained poor .
for example , groups like freedom house and human rights watch have documented widespread official repression of the or om o people .
and yet mel es is irre plac eable – un matched intellectually as an african leader ( he dropped out of medical school , but went on to teach himself im pec cable english and obtain european university degrees by correspond ence ) , and un matched politically at home , with no obvious successor gro omed to replace him .
in the horn of africa , there is no leader of his stature who could ensure the stability and strong governance that the region so desperately needs .
ha il em ari am des al eg n , mel es ’ s foreign minister , will take over ethiopia ’ s government .
but there will be considerable concern in the west about the danger of a power vacuum or struggle in a geopoliti cally vital but frac tious country – and just when neighboring somalia is supposed to be undergoing a transition to a new parliament and elected government .
for his admir ers and critics alike , mel es leaves behind a potent political legacy .
he will be remembered as an african leader of major historical significance : visionary , despotic , and indispensable .
africa ’ s economic house divided
d ak ar – the world economic downturn and financial-market tre mors have strained budgets across africa .
with the exception of ghana , and a few other states , in 2009 most african countries ’ fiscal balances deteriorated .
but , thanks to prudent management of public finances during previous periods of robust growth , a significant number of african countries have endured the current crisis in better fiscal shape than during past crises .
in 2009 , aggregate gdp growth in africa averaged 1.6 % , down from about 5.7 % during the 200 2- 2008 period – but growth all the same .
moreover , several african countries continued to implement long-term reforms to improve their business and investment climate , despite the daunting challenges presented by the crisis .
now that international trade and global industrial production are on the mend , sub-saharan economies look set for more robust growth , as demand for and prices of oil and other minerals rebound and general economic activity resum es .
but it is the dic ho tom ized nature of their economies and finances that represents africa ’ s most intractable structural imbalance .
frankly , two africa ’ s are emerging : a modern economy and a cash -based economy .
across africa , almost all governments praise – some honestly , some not – economic modernization as the cornerstone of prosperity and the y ard stick by which their effectiveness should be measured . many boast of the modernity of the financial infrastructure of their economies , which is based on an entire set of legal , regulatory , accounting , credit reporting , and payment and settlement systems .
national payment systems operate electr on ic -based payment products and services .
a high- value inter- bank fund s- transfer system sett les transactions in real time , eliminates credit risk between system participants , increases circulation of funds , and enhances monetary-policy implementation .
banks are provided with a facility to monitor their positions in real time and hence make cost-effective investment decisions .
so far , only a few registered financial institutions , primarily off shoots of western commercial banks , have access to such pay ment- system facilities .
non- banking financial institutions such as foreign exchange bure a us , post offices , and micro- finance lenders are not admitted , even when they are financially sound and sustainable .
the effects of banks ’ hij acking of national payment systems to service only the modern economy are compounded by the exclusive agreements that banks and money- transfer companies such as western union have signed with most african countries .
these agreements lock out non- banking entities from the highly lucrative market for migrant remittances from the african diaspora , which remain a key engine of growth .
yet rapid urbanization everywhere in africa has given rise to a dynamic informal sector un connected to the modern economy .
although marginalized by african officials , this cash -based economy is a major contributor to the continent ’ s productive capacity .
it employs more than 90 % of the workforce and is home to 75 % of the retailers .
but , despite the pivotal economic role that the informal sector plays , it has no access to conventional bank loans .
micro- finance institutions provide the only credit lines open to informal operators .
the micro- finance business model is based on lending that is guaranteed by the group .
this translates into a solidarity network and a support mechanism that mitig ates credit risk and encourages payment discipline . credit repayment in well- managed micro- finance institutions is around 95 % . all studies undertaken in the area have also revealed that women are not only the most active among inform al- sector entrepreneurs , but they are also quick er to meet their commitments .
african states must now recognize that modernizing their informal sectors by integrating them into the modern economy can be a major development tool . yet only a few countries have started moving in that direction .
nigeria has ref rained from signing any exclusive agreements with western union and others , and its newly consolidated banking industry is making significant in roads across the region .
rwanda , too , has enacted regulations that eliminate exclusive agreements , opening doors for micro- finance institutions to become pay ment- service providers .
the south african reserve bank has created a special platform within its national payment system for micro- finance institutions and non- banks .
malawi ’ s national payments system is directly accessible to non- bank participants , including third- party service providers .
giving micro- finance institutions access to national and regional payments systems and electronic retail facilities will go a long way toward meeting the requirements of the retail and business sector in terms of banking facilities .
it will also help facilitate access by the poorest to financial services , thus helping to reduce the high proportion of the un- ban ked population .
all of this will invariably spur development and integration of national financial systems and intra- regional trade .
this will be a welcome development , because a large proportion of intra- regional trade is carried out by informal operators and small and medium enterprises that do not have access to the banking system .
moreover , economic integration and increased intra- regional trade are the best entry point into global markets for all countries .
when it comes to analyzing what ails africa , it is customary to d well at length on the continent ’ s traumatic past .
but it strains the imagination to link africa ’ s colon i al- era p ains with the willingness of african leaders to spend a fortune to equip their countries with state- of-the- art settlement systems , and then proceed to exclude their citizens from using them .
there is an economic cor oll ary to this : an economic house divided can not prosper .
africa ’ s hard black gold
lag os - few infrastructure services in the developed world may be as taken for granted as electric power .
to consumers in industrialized countries , un interrupted power supply is a given .
not so in much of africa , which experiences some of the world ’ s greatest power deficits , and where only two in ten people have access to electricity .
according to the international monetary fund ’ s most recent regional economic outlook for sub-saharan africa , in 2007 alone , nearly two-thirds of the countries in the region experienced an acute energy crisis marked by frequent and extended electricity out ages .
there is no shortage of hydropower plants for electricity generation in africa .
however , many of these plants are unable to keep up with rapid population growth and attend ant increases in demand .
furthermore , they are prone to frequent drought , which reduces their output significantly , leaving many as little more than dec or ative infrastructure land marks .
increasingly burgeoning populations in countries like nigeria and ghana imply a greater extraction of water resources for power generation .
rapid expansion of agricultural activity is requiring more and more water all across the continent .
other resources like fuel oil , diesel , light crude , solar , and gas are also available as means of electricity generation , but their costs are all quite prohib itive .
these factors make a good argument for coal as a cheap alternative source of africa 's power .
coal has historically played a crucial role as a source of energy worldwide , and has several important advantages over other fossil fuels . first is its relative abundance .
the current level of proven coal reserves worldwide stands at roughly 8 50 billion tons .
africa has about 50 billion tons .
coal is also much more widely distributed geographically than any other fossil fuel .
worldwide energy demand has increased by more than 50 % since 1980 , and is expected to grow annually by 1.6 % between now and 2030 .
more than 70 % of this new demand will come from developing countries , with fossil fuels projected to account for about 80 % of total energy demand by the end of this period .
coal is the world ’ s fastest growing fossil fuel , with annual production increasing by 6.4 % since 2004 .
it is already the dominant source of power generation in some very important energy- consuming nations .
much of the future increases in coal-fired electricity generation will come from strategically important developing countries like china and india .
in 2006 alone , china added about 9 3,000 mega wat ts of coal-  fired electricity generating capacity , and this trend is expected to continue as the country tries to meet its huge energy needs .
even in many developed countries , coal still accounts for a large share of power generation .
coal plants currently provide more than half of america ’ s electricity supply .
denmark , which houses some of the most efficient coal-fired power plants in the world , equally relies on coal for half of its electricity production .
the same is true for germany , which is home to some of the most efficient pul ver ized coal combustion units in europe .
poland uses coal for 98 % of its electricity production , and south africa uses coal for about 50 % of its electricity production .
against this picture then , it is hard not to expect developing countries to exploit their abundant coal resources to generate power for their own development , especially given that modern technology can help produce coal clean ly .
unlike prices for coal , which is abundant and dispersed geographically , gas prices are subject to significant volatility , and the long-term trend in the face of fossil fuel depletion is uncertain .
in contrast , coal prices are more stable , and may remain that way for a long time .
apart from electr ic- power generation , coal also has wide application in a number of industries .
it is pivotal in both steel and cement production .
moreover , the use of wood by africa ’ s growing population is causing increasingly rapid deforestation in many countries .
there is significant potential domestic demand for coal br iqu ett es to replace wood for cooking and domestic and industrial heating .
the demand outlook thus appears favorable for the coal industry , creating significant investment opportunities .
clearly , there are environmental draw backs from the use of coal as an energy resource , and these concerns are far too important to overlook .
the massive reserves notwithstanding , coal is still a fin ite resource .
it must be min ed with greater efficiency and with a view to mitigating the environmental impact .
fortunately , much greater attention is paid today to mine safety and the management of the by- products of coal use .
with ac id rain and other public-health hazards linked to coal combustion , more technologies are emerging for reducing harmful emissions from power plants .
fueled by research , the past few years have witnessed the development of increasingly cleaner and more energy-efficient coal-fired generation plants and the retirement of older technologies , especially in the developed world .
developing countries have lagged behind in this process , but , with the common threat of global warming , there is now growing pressure to adopt conservation policies .
africa 's min er al- rich countries must exploit their abundant natural resources .
they must use coal to advance their economic development .
failure to do so would be a missed opportunity at a time when african countries must av ail themselves of all available resources for poverty reduction .
africa ’ s immunity
accr a – the united states suffers rising job losses .
britain nation alizes its banks .
once high- flying small economies like ireland , hungary , and iceland break down .
even robust china and india are experiencing slower growth , curtailed ambitions , and broken dreams .
yet , in sub-saharan africa , there are few hints of the global financial crisis that is consuming the capitalist world .
in fashionable african cities , residential home prices remain strat os pheric .
a typical western-style house in k amp ala or accr a , for example , now costs an astonishing two to three times the price of a comparable home in , say , c level and or other cities in the american heartland .
while home prices are cr ashing from madrid to dublin and mi ami to los angeles , african prices remain near or at record-high levels .
african banks , meanwhile , are rock- solid compared to their debt- heavy counterparts in the us and europe .
while international bankers went bust by making leg ions of bad loans , african bankers stuck to earning profits the old-fashioned way : paying very little to depositors , and earning a big “ spread ” by buying guaranteed government debt , which yielded healthy returns .
even government deficit spending – long the bane of africa – seems positively pun y compared to the massive debts that the us and some european countries face .
and yet there are good reasons to believe that it is just a matter of time before africa and its peoples experience the ill effects of the global crisis .
from ghana to kenya , governments are having increased difficulty in raising money for infrastructure projects and selling official debt .
foreign investment in sub-saharan africa , which reached record levels in recent years , is re treating , which is evidence of investor caution , not any underlying lack of optimism about the region .
and exports of raw materials to china , india , europe , and the us – a key factor in africa ’ s recent growth surge – may suffer simply because the global slowdown means less consumption everywhere .
all of these factors suggest that an african financial bust is possible .
popular equity investments , such as shares in saf ar ic om , are already trading at unexpectedly low levels .
if real estate prices were to fall dramatically , a chain reaction could occur , taking down big and small investors alike , and over time causing wide suffering to ordinary africans .
even assuming stability in real estate prices , the global crisis surely will cause a fall in remittances by africans working good jobs in europe , the us , canada , australia , and the middle east .
remittances are already believed to be falling , which makes sense : immigrants in rich countries are and will be disproportionately hurt by slowing economic activity .
immigration itself may even slow dramatically , depending on the length and depth of the economic slowdown .
fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into less money circulating in african countries .
the decline in remittances , however , cuts both ways .
remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa .
a ug and an doctor working in norway , for instance , cares little about the cost of a be er in k amp ala .
he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local doctor for services and , of course , a home in uganda .
fewer remittances flowing into uganda could mean less economic activity – or simply lower prices .
the financial meltdown in the us , which incub ated the global crisis , is either coming under control or threatening to mut ate into a new , more virulent form that could destroy not only america ’ s paper economy of trading and bro kering , but also its real economy of goods and services .
president barack obama , acting as if the latter scenario remains likely , is betting on large-scale government spending to prop up the real economy .
if his administration succeeds , the chances that africa will remain relatively un s cath ed will grow .
even if obama fails , however , africans should escape the worst of the global crisis , for both good reasons and bad .
the good reasons have to do with african self- reliance and a growing awareness among scholars and policymakers that trade within the region – especially between urban and rural africa – will ultimately deliver enormous benefits .
another factor working in africa ’ s favor is its private companies ’ and consumers ’ low dependence on borrowed money .
people tend to pay cash for goods and services , however costly .
in the us , loans for cars and homes – loans that now aren ’ t being paid back – are the major factor behind the financial crisis .
in africa , very few people borrow money for such purchases .
africa ’ s cash -based economy has in the past constrained development .
after all , by allowing people to spend more than they have , borrowed money can fuel growth .
but today , africa ’ s pay- as- you - go practices are a powerful defense against financial contagion .
another way of looking at africa ’ s paradoxical economic position is to admit that the region ’ s historical marginalization within the international financial system – so costly in times of global plenty – is proving to be an unexpected benefit when the wealthiest of the world are sick un to death .
lag os – africa ’ s rise is in danger of faltering .
after years during which the continent ’ s economy grew at an average annual rate of 5 % , global uncertainty , depressed commodity prices , and jit tery external conditions are threatening to undermine decades of much-needed progress .
ensuring the wealth and wellbeing of the continent ’ s residents will not be easy ; but there is much that policymakers can do to put africa back on an upward trajectory .
first and foremost , policymakers must secure the financing needed to pursue sustainable development in an uncertain global environment .
the world bank estimates that africa will require at least $ 93 billion a year to fund its infrastructure needs alone .
climate- friendly , sustainable infrastructure will cost even more .
and yet , as long as global growth remains weak , africans can not count on developed countries to fully honor their commitments to help attain the sustainable development goals .
africa must rapidly develop its own resources , beginning by nearly doubling tax revenues .
across sub-saharan africa , tax revenues account for less than one-fifth of gdp , compared to more than one-third in oecd countries .
this means there is plenty of room for improvement .
from 1990 to 2004 , for example , ghana reformed its tax system and raised revenues from 11 % to 22 % of gdp .
admittedly , such progress is difficult ; in nigeria , we saw an opportunity in raising non- oil tax revenues , but struggled to seize it .
another source of domestic resources is the roughly $ 3 80 billion in pension assets held by just ten african countries .
policymakers should be leveraging these considerable sums .
at the same time , african countries will have to find a way to diversify their economies .
diversification requires investment in the future , in the form of education and well- developed infrastructure , including telecommunications , power , roads , rail , and water .
there are plenty of models to follow : dubai , singapore , thailand , malaysia , mexico , indonesia , and south korea are all admired by africans as economies that managed to transform themselves .
dubai , for example , set out more than three decades ago to prepare for a future without oil .
the government implemented a step - by- step transformation of the country into a service economy , putting in place the infrastructure and incentives necessary to build up financial services , tourism , medical services , real estate , media , arts , and culture .
south korea and singapore , which had few natural resources on which to rely , are no less inspiring .
the secret behind these countries ’ success is relentlessly focused leaders , whether entrenched but benign dictators or democratically elected politicians with a shared vision of a broad-based economy .
sub-saharan africa has paths for diversified growth that many of the tr ail bl az ers did not : value-added agriculture and ag ro industry , the processing of mineral resources , petro chemical complex es , manufacturing of durable and consumer goods , tourism and entertainment , and an emerging information- technology sector .
as the necessary measures for diversification are implemented , policymakers must ensure that the economic growth they are pursuing creates jobs .
sadly , this has not always been the case .
much of the recent growth has benefited only a few , leaving many behind – most notably young people and women .
from 2006 to 2013 , inequality rose in many of the continent ’ s most important economies , including south africa , nigeria , ghana , tanzania , and rwanda .
these were challenges that we were starting to address in nigeria when i was finance minister .
we knew that we needed not just to secure growth , but also to improve the quality of that growth .
to that end , policymakers must ensure that growth is channeled into sectors that create jobs , such as agriculture , manufacturing , and services .
matching skills to job opportunities will be crucial .
some 70 % of africa ’ s population is under 30 , and the continent is home to half the world ’ s primary- school-age children who have been deprived of the opportunity to study .
offering africa ’ s children basic reading , writing , and technology skills , as well as vocational , technical , and entrepreneurial training , must be a top priority .
weak health-care systems must also be strengthened in order to tackle the endemic diseases that s ap productivity , such as malaria , as well as improving preparedness for outbreaks of deadly epidemics .
the stakes are high .
the world bank estimates the ebola outbreak shrank the economies of sierra leone , guinea , and liberia by 16 % .
as the world economy sput ters , african countries will have to develop trade with one another .
in 2013 , african goods and services accounted for just 16 % of trade within the continent , and just over 3 % of world trade .
one problem is that most african countries produce the same type of commodities and trade them with very little value-added .
policymakers must encourage greater specialization ; differentiated goods and services will add value and volume to trade .
logistics pose another obstacle to intra- african trade .
policymakers must make it easier to move goods across borders , by improving connectivity between countries and reducing bureaucratic hurdles and administrative costs .
for example , road transport tariffs across africa are estimated at $ 0.0 5 - $ 0. 13 per t on- kilome ter , compared to the average of $ 0.0 1 - $ 0.0 5 for all developing countries .
the rift valley railway project , which will eventually link mom bas a on the kenyan coast to k amp ala in uganda , is a good example of the benefits that investments in transportation could provide .
the african development bank estimates that it will double the volume of trade between the two countries , while reducing marginal costs by 30 % .
as they make these investments , policymakers must not forget that much of africa ’ s recent growth can be credited to good macroeconomic policies and sound economic management .
extending the continent ’ s rise will require strengthening the continent ’ s economic fundamentals .
this means ensuring that prices in the economy are correct , starting with the exchange rate .
some countries may need temporary controls to curb damaging capital outflows , but policymakers should aim for a market-based exchange rate and a solid plan for governing inflation , debt , foreign-exchange reserves , current accounts , and fiscal balances .
africa ’ s potential can hardly be overstated .
the continent is well placed to build diversified economies based on low-carbon , sustainable infrastructure .
but policymakers can not simply assume that africa ’ s rise will continue .
they must take the right steps to ensure that it does .
africa ’ s urban farmers
nairobi – when i met e un ice w ang ari at a nairobi coffee shop recently , i was surprised to hear her on her mobile phone , insist ently asking her mother about the progress of a corn field in her home village , hours away from the big city .
a nur se , w ang ari counts on income from farming to raise money to buy more land – for more farming .
even though w ang ari lives in kenya ’ s capital , she is able to reap hundreds of dollars a year in profit from cash crops grown with the help of relatives .
her initial stake – drawn from her nur sing wages of about $ 350 a month – has long since been recovered .
w ang ari is one of thousands of urban workers in kenya – and one of hundreds of thousands , even millions , across africa – who are increasing their incomes through abs ent ee agriculture .
abs ent ee agriculture also bol sters national pride – and pride in traditional diets – by speci alizing in vegetables specific to the region .
“ for too long our country has been flooded with imported food and western ized foods , ” w ang ari says . “ this is our time to fight back – and grow our own . ”
across africa , political leaders , long dismis sive of rural concerns , have awak ened to the importance of agriculture and the role that educated people , even those living in major cities , can play in farming .
in nigeria , former president ol us eg un ob as an jo has a huge diversified farm and has pushed for policies to help abs ent ee farmers prosper .
in uganda , vice president gil bert bu kenya routinely travel s the country , promoting higher- value farming , such as dairy production .
perhaps the most visible political support for abs ent ee agriculture is in liberia , a small west african country where civil war destroyed agriculture , rendering the population dependent on food imports , even today .
president john son- sir leaf , recognizing that educated people could contribute much to an agriculture revival , launched her “ back to the soil ” campaign in june 2008 in large part to encourage urban dwellers to farm .
to be sure , abs ent ee farming by elites and educated urban workers can ’ t solve all of africa ’ s urgent food needs .
moreover , abs ent ee farmers face unexpected problems .
because they don ’ t visit their fields often , they rely heavily on relatives and friends . when i decided to farm wheat for the first time this spring on le ased land in my childhood village , my mother agreed to super v ise pl owing , planting , and harv esting .
without her help , i might not have farm ed at all .
even with mother ’ s help , i have worries .
although i grew up around wheat fields , my knowledge of farming is thin .
fertilizer and spr aying were both more expensive than i thought .
while my wheat stal ks are spr ou ting on schedule , i now fear that at harvest time – in november – prices will fall and i won ’ t re coup my costs .
one key tool is the mobile phone .
my hopes for success are buoyed by my ability to call my mother in expen sively and discuss the farm .
we even decided over the phone what kind of pesticide to use and which tr actor company to hire .
because they know both the tastes of fellow city dwellers and rural conditions , many urban farmers are succeeding .
in fact , some city dwellers don ’ t even bother with acquiring land or gaining distant help . certain crops can be grown in their own homes .
james mem u si , an accoun tant , grows mush rooms in a spare bedro om , selling them to nearby hotels and super markets .
nevertheless , most people living in africa ’ s cities have access to land in the countryside , which is why liberia ’ s government rightly highlights the potential for farm expansion .
in a new advertising campaign rolled out this summer , the authorities declared , “ the soil is a bank ; invest in it . ”
in liberia , the main push is to reduce imports of stap les such as rice and tom at oes .
in more prosperous countries , african elites are motivated by a complex inter play of national pride , di etary concerns , and the pursuit of profit .
in zamb ia , for example , syl va ban da ign ited a cr a ze for authentic traditional meals two decades ago with a chain of popular restaurants .
now , ordinary lus ak ans want to cook similar meals in their own homes , driving demand for farmers who produce such del ic acies as dried pu mp kin , “ black jack ” leaves , and fresh ok ra .
similarly , in nairobi , mir ing o kin yan ju i , another woman entrepreneur , is supplying un refined – and more nutriti ous – maize and wheat fl our .
in another move to distinguish her ingredients from western versions , kin yan ju i also sells through gro cer y stores fl our fl av ored with am ar athan , a green vege table that grows around kenya .
last year , unil ever ’ s kenyan branch ran a “ taste our culture ” campaign in support of its line of traditional east african her bs and sp ices .
such campaigns go hand -in- hand with expanded farming , because sellers of these foods prefer nearby growers – even if these growers increasingly live in the city .
building africa ’ s scientific talent
tor onto – ten years ago , south african physicist ne il tu ro k made a bold prediction : the world ’ s next einstein will be from africa .
a decade later , it is worth considering whether the continent is any closer to finding the next global genius .
statis tically , there is indeed a high probability that it will happen .
by 2050 , 40 % of the world ’ s young people will be african .
by virtue of demographics alone , it stands to reason that africa is destined to generate pro dig ies in science or technology .
africans have led the world in science before .
in fact , some of humanity ’ s greatest innovations – from vaccines to brain surgery – were pioneered by africans .
one of the oldest measuring devices ever used , the le bomb o bone , was car ved by people believed to have lived some 3 5,000 years ago in modern-day es wat ini ( swa z il and ) .
in other words , mathematics itself is an african invention .
for decades , science and policy lum in aries like cal est ous j uma , a global advocate for sci ence- driven sustainable development , and w ang ari ma ath ai , an environmental activist and nobel laureate , championed africa ’ s science agenda .
with these vision aries now gone , africa needs a new brain trust to inspire future generations of ethical and public- spir ited researchers .
but how do we ensure africa disco vers , supports , and develops innovative , game- changing scientists ?
the missing element has been an african education system that supports innovation in research , and that provides the next african revolutionary scientist with the training and support he or she needs – in africa .
across the continent , there is a growing consensus among governments that education and research in science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ( stem ) is critical for economic growth and development .
at the moment , however , too many of africa ’ s young researchers see no option but to go abroad for school and work .
that can change , but only with concrete investments in homegrown talent .
this means rethinking the entire education system in africa .
three priorities stand out .
first , african countries need to fix the knowledge pipeline .
that means investing in teacher training , improved learning outcomes , re tention of girls in stem courses , supporting research earlier in university , helping young researchers through so-called sand w ich programs , establishing univers ity- private sector labs on camp us , and more .
second , africa needs indigenous knowledge creation .
this requires facilitating both fundamental and applied research and creating the necessary infrastructure for the dissem ination of research outcomes .
this could include making more funding available to researchers and research institutions , as well as promoting open sources for knowledge sharing .
the third priority is putting knowledge into practice .
this could involve making scientific information accessible to the general public and innovators , and supporting public-private partnerships to pilot , demonstrate , and apply research outcomes , thereby creating jobs addressing public problems .
a good example is zi pl ine , which deplo ys drone technology to deliver blood trans fu sions to remote areas of rwanda .
after successfully deploying the technology in rwanda , it is currently being rolled out in ghana .
zi pl ine has saved hundreds of lives and demonstrated the potential of technology transfer with large-scale impact .
the next einstein forum ( ne f ) , an initiative of the african institute for mathematical sciences ( aims ) and the brain child of tu ro k , supported partly by the master card foundation , is demonstrating that africa produces strong scientific talent .
the ne f focuses on conven ing africa ’ s innovators to highlight breakthrough discoveries and catalyze scientific collaboration for human development .
since the first cohort of ne f fel lows was selected in 2015 , the program has highlighted the contributions of young african researchers who are working to tackle some of the world ’ s toughest scientific and technological challenges .
ne f ’ s current cohort includes somalia ’ s ab dig ani dir i y e , who created a block ch ain - enabled lending platform in kenya and was recently named one of africa ’ s top 30 innovators ; nigeria ’ s peter n gene , whose work on nano technologies is being used to improve renewable energy and who also recently created a hydro gen -based eye sen sor that detec ts lac t ose intolerance ; and v inet co et ze e of south africa , whose research in non- invasive measures of health has led to a patent application for a device that could detect malaria .
with so many complex issues v ying for attention today , africa will need innovative education and research models .
but as long as the ne f and similar efforts continue to nurture the continent ’ s brightest young scientists and tackle systemic issues like funding , mobility , and research infrastructure , the odds are good that those leading the search for solutions will be the very people tu ro k predicted .
improving african women ’ s health through financial inclusion
accr a – in late october , the world health organization ’ s regional office for africa signed an agreement with the united nations international telecommun ication union ( it u ) .
the aim of the unlikely partnership is to encourage the use of digital services “ to save lives and improve people ’ s health . ”
but perhaps the pact ’ s most innovative feature is the vow to mer ge financial inclusion strategies with modern health-care delivery .
financial inclusion is a proven pathway to improving people ’ s health , especially the health of women in developing countries .
women who can easily access bank accounts or cash payment options tend to invest more in their businesses and families .
in turn , they live healthier , more satisfying lives .
yet , too often , initiatives like the one signed in october focus on one or the other – e- health or financial products like insurance .
because africans ’ ability to earn and save money can be the difference between good care and no care at all , this represents a missed opportunity to help patients and build more resilient communities .
the cost of this choice is disproportionately high for africa ’ s women .
in nigeria , for example , 400,000 women live with ob ste tr ic f ist ula , a disab ling condition often caused by complications in childbirth .
in tanzania , some 8,000 women die annually during pregnancy or delivery ; most of these deaths could be prevented .
and , across the continent , women ’ s life expectancy at birth is just 58 years , compared to more than 80 years in developed countries .
progress is being made to connect women ’ s health solutions and financial inclusion .
at a recent conference in d ar es sal a am , experts from the technology and financial services sector joined investors , philanthropists , and development specialists to devise ways to make finance work for africa ’ s women .
through programs like these , development experts can advocate for digital solutions as a means of social and financial empowerment .
unfortunately , cooperation like the pact signed in october is the exception , rather than the norm .
banks , regulators , finance ministries , and telecommunications companies all frequently gather to consider financial inclusion without the local and global health community .
this must change if we are to build more inclusive platforms for african patients and clients .
the first step is to identify missed opportunities .
a big one stems from the disparate approaches to bringing financial services and dig itized health care to rural parts of africa .
at the same time , community health workers ( ch ws ) are operating in these regions to prevent , treat , and refer patients to clinics .
combining these efforts makes sense , because both initiatives rely heavily on trust .
through pre- established networks , ch ws could augment their e- health offerings with financial products , like mobile cash payment systems .
broadening digital disease management and access to health information to include financial wellbeing would create natural synerg ies .
while there are some concerns that adding responsibilities to ch ws could undermine health-care quality , a fragmented approach to prosperity is even more damaging .
once opportunities for expansion are identified , other issues will need to be addressed before women ’ s health and financial inclusion programs can be widened .
for starters , a lack of sex - dis aggreg ated data makes it difficult to draft policies based on health quality and financial need .
although some countries , such as bur un di and senegal , are working to improve their gender- specific data collection , a broader , more coordinated push is needed .
raising the region ’ s financial literacy will be another challenge .
the ability to understand and execute matters of personal finance is the weakest link in transforming women ’ s opportunities through financial inclusion .
moreover , financial literacy is a pre- requ isite for the roll out of financing initiatives , such as programs that support wom en- led small and micro- enterprises .
if financial literacy levels can be raised , women can access resources such as land and credit , tools that hold the keys to business development , social mobility , and personal growth .
progress has been made in leveling the playing field , but these gains must be sustained .
the agreement between the who and the it u will help promote wealth creation in parts of africa where access to health care and financial services is lacking .
to maintain this momentum , deeper commitments are needed , especially from the global health community .
but , however african governments proceed in dig itiz ing their health and financial services offerings , women ’ s needs must remain at the center of any solution .
closing the youth apathy gap
nairobi – when the united nations ’ member countries adopted the sustainable development goals two years ago , they committed themselves to reduce substantially “ the proportion of youth not in employment , education , or training . ”
that commitment will be virtually impossible to fulfill , unless political participation by young people increases considerably .
young people are critical to progress .
as us president barack obama put it in a 2015 speech in nairobi , “ no country can achieve its full potential unless it draws on the talents of all its people . ”
and youth now comprise a large share of those people – 18 % of the world ’ s population , to be precise .
the share is even larger in much of the developing world .
the median age of africa ’ s population is just 19 .5 years .
given their numbers , not to mention rising education and literacy rates , young people can make a world of difference , shaping political discourse and electoral outcomes .
but that requires them to be engaged and active .
in the united kingdom , most young people wish to remain in the european union .
as a lord ash cro ft poll showed , 73 % of those aged 18- 24 , and 62 % of those aged 25- 34 , voted accordingly in last year ’ s referendum .
but most young british did not actually show up to cast their votes , allowing the uk ’ s older , predominantly pro- brexit cohor ts to win the day .
in kenya ’ s presidential election , held last month , 51 % of registered voters were below the age of 35 years .
although the supreme court ann ul led the results and ordered a fresh vote , owing to electoral ir regul arities and il leg alities , large numbers of young people are likely to turn out again .
unfortunately , kenya is the exception that proves the rule .
political apathy among young people , like that seen in the brexit referendum , remains pervasive worldwide .
in many regions of africa , for example , young people are disillusioned with politics , convinced that wealthy older people will always prevail and advance their own interests , often at the expense of younger generations .
this sense of dis empowerment is threatening to turn the developing world ’ s youth bul ge into a youth curse – with serious potential consequences .
the arab spring uprisings , which led to violence and instability in most affected countries , were fueled largely by desperate young people demanding rights and opportunities .
to avoid such outcomes , young people need to be part of their countries ’ political life , able to advance their own vision of the future .
as young ken yans repeated during the recent election campaign , “ if you are not at the table , you are on the menu . ”
so what can be done to increase political awareness and participation among young people ?
in kenya , government efforts have focused on the creation of three institutions : the ministry of public service , youth , and gender affairs , the youth enterprise development fund , and the national youth council .
though somewhat dysfunctional , these institutions have helped to empower kenyan youth , driving the high election turnout last month .
but perhaps the most effective approach to closing the apathy gap focuses on initiatives led by young people themselves .
in nigeria , young people spearheaded the not too young to run campaign , which led to a constitutional amendment lowering the minimum age for candidates .
their success inspired a global campaign to support young people ’ s right to run for office .
in kenya , the you th- led ji activ at e – the name , which combines swa hil i and english , means “ activ ate yourself ” – has sought to boost youth participation in politics by highlighting the main issues affecting young people .
ji activ ate , in which i am engaged as national chair person , aims to serve as a platform that amp lifies young ken yans ’ voices , offering them easier ways to take action .
to inspire more such initiatives , there must be a deliberate effort to engage with youth in a way that supports real political engagement , not to ken ism and empty rhetoric .
to that end , the organ is ation of africa youth , of which i am coordin ator , has not only worked with local youth groups and community networks ; it has also taken lessons from a ge opol l survey of 2,000 urban and rural kenyan youth .
that survey showed that , while 27 % of respondents had never engaged politically , 26 % had attended an event and 34 % had posted on social media .
moreover , 68 % of respondents said that they would participate in political action only if they had access to a safe and trusted platform that would protect them from victim ization , intimidation , or re prim and .
one lesson than can be drawn from these data is the potential value of social media , which , despite being constrained in many countries during elections , remains a potent tool to facilitate youth political engagement .
for example , by cre atively using social media to collect , coll ate , and amplify young people ’ s priorities in the kenyan elections , ji activ ate helped spur their interest in politics .
nonetheless , many ken yans who were popular on social media did not make much of an impact on the election ’ s outcome .
translating social media energy into effective action in the real world remains a daunting challenge .
increasing youth involvement in politics will require sustained commitment and hard work .
but , far from a deterrent , this should serve as a powerful incentive to get started .
no one is more affected by past , present , and future policies than young people .
they must take their seat at the table , not wait until one is offered .
tor onto – a few years ago , during a conversation with young people from some of senegal ’ s poorest communities , a pair of social entrepreneurs told me about projects they were working on to help their peers succeed .
one young man said he planned to put more computers into primary schools ; another had set up a network to connect rural job seekers in the urban tum ult of d ak ar , senegal ’ s capital .
after they finished sharing their plans , i congrat ulated them , and said that their parents must be very proud .
but instead of accepting the compli ment , they dem ur red .
“ my parents are against what i ’ m doing , ” they said , almost in un ison , before explaining that young people face family pressure to get a government job or use their english skills to work as a tour guide – not to become a risk-taking entrepreneur .
for ambitious young africans , there are many obstacles to success .
the journey to a job – whether formal or informal , entrepreneurial or traditional – is often a sol itary one .
many young people lack access to skills training or even a favorable social environment to try something new .
as i was reminded that day in senegal , helping young people find g ain ful employment is the most important thing that the international community can do to help africa develop .
africa is home to the world ’ s largest population of young people .
in about 25 years , those young people will be part of the biggest workforce in the world , with more than 1.1 billion people of working age .
by some forecasts , 11 million people will enter africa ’ s labor market each year for the next decade , most of whom will be first- time job seekers .
if african countries boost job growth and equip young people with employ able skills , this youth bul ge can deliver rapid , inclusive , and sustainable economic growth to the continent .
in turn , millions would have the opportunity to lift themselves out of poverty .
but africa can not achieve this future alone .
at the master card foundation , we believe that , if africa is to reach its potential , gaps in two keys areas must be closed .
the first area is access to financial products and services .
according to the world bank , some two billion people around the world currently lack such access .
in sub-saharan africa , just 34 % of adults have a bank account , making it difficult for people to put money aside for un planned events , like a bad harvest , or to save for school .
this must change , with africans gaining not only better access to banking systems , but also improved financial literacy .
the second key challenge that must be addressed is exclusion from secondary and higher education .
while progress has been made in some regions , only about one-third of africa ’ s young people graduate from high school .
girls are particularly disadvantaged ; according to unesco , in sub-saharan africa , an estimated nine million girls under the age of 11 have never been to school , compared to six million boys .
to address these issues , the master card foundation has established partnerships with local organizations to design education and financial- literacy programs aimed at helping young people find and keep jobs .
by building a better- trained workforce , the foundation ’ s programs are helping to empower the next generation of africa ’ s community members and leaders , so that they can help their families , communities , and countries achieve a brighter and more prosperous future .
already , a new generation of educated and ethical entrepreneurs , like those i met in senegal , is emerging across africa , demonstrating a profound commitment to building a stronger africa .
for example , when i ask young people participating in our scholars program what they plan to do with their new skills , they almost always reply that after getting a job , they plan to help somebody else , by returning to their secondary schools to serve as ment ors to younger students .
some of our program ’ s graduates have even established community projects in their villages to address hiv/aids or to build shel ters for orph ans and young children .
every one of these bright young africans – examples of what the master card foundation calls “ transformative leadership ” in action – has the potential to drive change in their own countries and communities .
if we succeed , africa ’ s dre am ers of today will be the cataly sts of positive change tomorrow .
africa ’ s defining challenge
addis ababa – africa has the youngest population in the world , and it ’ s growing fast .
by 20 55 , the continent ’ s youth population ( aged 15- 24 ) , is expected to be more than double the 2015 total of 2 26 million .
yet the continent remains stubbornly in hosp itable – politically , economically , and socially – to young people .
the success of african governments ’ efforts to address this will be the single most important factor determining whether the continent prosp ers or suffers in the coming decades .
a business- as- usual approach would risk exposing africa not only to economic under performance and a brain drain , but also to crimin ality , political and social unrest , and even armed conflict .
but africa can thrive if its governments act now to tap the energy and dynamism of the burgeoning youth population .
what is needed is a comprehensive policy agenda , comprising demograph ically informed measures that address political , cultural , and economic exclusion in a synchronized manner .
this will be no small feat , not least because of the massive age gap between africa ’ s young majority and their leaders : the average age of an african president is 62 , while the median age of africa ’ s population is 19 .5 .
that is the world ’ s largest age gap between governors and the governed , and it raises concerns about how well decision-makers understand the needs and aspirations of young people .
it does not help that a tradition of ger on tocr acy prevails in many countries , meaning that young people ’ s political participation and influence is restricted on cultural grounds .
to help overcome this barrier , governments should treat generational inequality with the same sense of urgency as other forms of inequality , accelerating efforts to introduce youth quotas for political parties , parliaments , and other decision-making institutions .
much work also remains to be done on the economic front .
according to the african development bank , 12 million young people entered africa ’ s labor force in 2015 , but only 3.1 million jobs were created .
that means that millions of young people were left without a stake in the economy .
in the short and medium term , it will be virtually impossible to create enough jobs to meet the needs of the unemployed and vulner ably employed .
africa does not have a large labor-intensive manufacturing sector to absorb its mush ro oming young population .
but there are programs that can help .
for example , you th con ne k t africa , launched by the united nations development programme and the government of rwanda , encourages you th- friendly policies , such as access to finance and skills development , that match the needs of the market in particular countries .
still , given the dearth of opportunities at home , many young africans view migration as a chance for social mobility .
yet , as the ceo of a major company based in sub-saharan africa recently lamented to me , acquiring work visas for africans is extremely difficult .
in fact , it can be easier to get a work visa for a british citizen than for , say , a gh ana ian with the same skills .
africa ’ s vision for economic integration , as set out in the african union ’ s agenda 20 63 , can not be realized without labor migration that creates african careers paths for young people .
it is telling that so many africans are willing to risk drowning in the mediterranean sea , living in appalling detention centers in north africa , or sle eping in public parks in european cities , rather than remaining in africa .
yet , contrary to popular belief , young people are not migr ating from africa exclusively for economic reasons .
rather , they are motivated by the promise of opportunities for genuine self- improvement and the freedom to decide who to be and how to live .
that is certainly what led me to leave africa and head to europe at a young age .
in fact , the desire for self- improvement through migration is a key element of the human story – one that no desert , sea , or artificial barrier has been able to quell .
given this , any strategy that does not address the broader environment of marginalization is a bridge to nowhere .
so far , africa seems to be sle ep walking into a future of lost opportunity and , potentially , serious instability .
and africa ’ s international partners have remained preoccupied with containing migration from the continent , rather than addressing its underlying causes .
but there may be reason for hope .
the fifth european uni on- africa summit , to be held later this year , will focus squarely on the continent ’ s young people .
likewise , the african union ’ s theme for 2017 is “ harnessing the demographic dividend through investments in youth . ”
one hopes that the growing recognition of the need to create opportunities for young people leads to effective , solid ar ity- based initiatives that address the barriers to youth empowerment on the continent , instead of erecting barriers to prevent young people from leaving .
to paraphrase martin luther king , africa confronts the fierce urgency of now .
there is such a thing as being too late .
listening to africa ’ s future farmers
nairobi – africa is in the midst of a youth employment crisis .
by 2035 , some 350 million new jobs will be needed , and agriculture , the continent ’ s biggest industry , could provide the bulk of them .
but at the moment , young africans are sh unning life on the farm for work in the city .
if africa ’ s employment gap is to be closed , ag ri businesses must find ways to recruit younger hands .
this challenge was the focus of my research as part of the youth think tank , a you th- led research initiative in partnership with re st less development uganda and the master card foundation .
in a recent report , we examined the experiences of young african agricul tur alists in seven countries .
and what we discovered is that the best way to enti ce young people back to the farm is by improving access to and engagement with emerging technologies .
many of the young people with whom we spoke said that their biggest obstacle to a career in farming is learning the digital and technical skills necessary to succeed in today ’ s agricultural market .
with technologies like cloud computing , soil sen sors , and weather drones changing how food is produced , packaged , and distributed , digital literacy is as important as arable land and high-quality seeds .
it stands to reason , then , that if more young people could master digital skills , more would find work in the field .
to understand how important technology is to the young african farmer , consider competition for land .
most farmland is acquired through hereditary or communal distribution systems , and when new plo ts are allocated , they are typically smaller than those provided to previous generations .
to remain profitable , younger growers must produce larger crops from smaller spaces , which requires innovation .
our study found that in many cases , the best solutions for young farmers are already being designed by young people .
for example , in kenya , one vege table grow er turned her kit chen gar den into a ver tical farm to increase its output .
today , she runs her own business designing , fabric ating , and inst alling similar structures for a variety of customers .
another inter vie we e created a mobile app to help farmers connect with local seed and fertilizer suppliers .
unfortunately , these types of you th- driven innovations rarely receive the necessary political or financial backing to make them viable and scal able .
despite having great ideas , most young agricultural innovators do not feel supported in their efforts .
our research suggests several strategies to achieve this outcome .
for starters , young people need places to engage with like-minded innovators .
recognizing this , policymakers and the private sector should work together to create incub ation centers and ide ation hubs to help young people build , discuss , and access farm -related technologies .
moreover , those who promote new farm technologies should travel to the places where young people gather , to provide hand s- on , audi ence- specific training .
if the newest farm gad gets and tools are marke ted only on social media , as is often the case , up take in rural areas will remain weak .
next , young people need access to financial products and services to help them turn their ideas into marke table businesses .
and , finally , countries must find ways to involve their youth in early stages of the technology- development pipeline .
as the experience of the kenyan gar den er illustrates , young people are often the best judges of what will deliver long-term , practical results .
last year , i had the privilege of presenting these findings at the global youth economic opportunities summit in washington , dc .
i spoke about the role young people play in africa ’ s economy , and the importance of sol ic iting their views on the future of african agriculture .
it was an important first step in bringing young peoples ’ ideas to the table .
but much work remains to be done .
according to the food and agriculture organization of the united nations , the average age of an african farmer today is about 60 , while 60 % of the population is under the age of 24 .
to breathe new life into africa ’ s farms , the entire industry must innovate .
and , as our research shows , the best way to do that is by working much more closely with those who have the most to gain from progress .
after assimil ation
human migration is as old as history . even migration to distant places and remote cultures is nothing new .
in the nineteenth century , millions of europeans sought liberty and prosperity in the americas , notably in the united states .
what is new today is the scale of migration , often across huge cultural divides - and often without a defin ite aim .
the african boat people in the mediterranean are often not even sure whether they want to be in italy , germany , or britain .
even those who are certain , like north africans in spain and france , or turks in germany , had as their priority escaping the hopelessness of their home countries , not arriving at a particular destination .
this modern form of migration raises massive problems for countries on the receiving end . in europe , it is probably the most serious social issue today , because no one has a clear idea about how to manage the resulting clash of cultures .
once upon a time , north america , notably the us , seemed to provide the answer .
it was that of the `` melting pot '' : different peoples made their own contribution to american culture , but , above all , they made every effort to accept what they found and integrate .
`` no , '' the russian woman who came to the us in the early twentieth century replied to the grand child who asked whether her ancestors arrived with the pilgr ims on the may flow er . `` our ship had a different name , but now we are all americans . ''
more recently , this has changed , giving rise to a process described by arthur sch les inger , the historian and former a ide to president john f. kennedy , in his book the dis uniting of america .
no longer are all us citizens americans . they have become hy ph en ated americans : ital ian- americans , african-americans , his pan ic- americans , and so on .
the ingredients of the melting pot are separating .
even in israel , the last true immigration country - at least for jews - assimil ation is no longer so easy .
israel and america continue to have mechanisms to integrate new migrants .
language is an important underlying factor , and in israel , there is the army , while in america , the values embodied in the constitution still represent a shared secular faith .
but these mechanisms are weakening everywhere , and are virtually non-existent in european countries .
modern societies are characterized by acute problems of belonging .
they do n't offer the implicit , unconscious ties of community that citizens felt in the past . as a result , people have begun to cling to other , more prim or di al group identities .
they resist assimil ation , fearing that it will ro b them of their identity without offering a new one .
what then is the alternative to assimil ation ?
the `` sal ad bowl '' of so-called multiculturalism is no real alternative , because it does not provide the necessary gl ue that bin ds communities together .
all the ingredients remain separate from the outset .
the only viable alternative for which there are examples is probably that of london or new york . the main characteristic of this alternative is the coexistence of a common public sphere shared by all and a considerable degree of cultural separation in the `` private '' sphere , notably in residential areas .
the public space is multicul tural in terms of people 's backgrounds , but is governed by agreed values , even a common language , whereas the people 's private lives are - to use an ugly word - ghet to ized .
in theory , this is a distinc tly second- best solution to the cultural consequences of migration ; in practice it is the best answer we have .
but it can not be had for nothing .
even the necessary minimum of a common language requires a deliberate effort , to say nothing of certain rules of behavior .
living in london , i mar vel at the way in which we lon don ers have come to terms with indian family shops and west indi an- run public transport , while not asking many questions about whole districts that are bangladeshi or chinese .
no one has yet found a name for this new version of the `` separate but equal '' doctrine that some of us fought so hard against in the 1960 's : separate private lives in a common public space that is equal for all .
this is clearly easier in london and new york than it is in smaller towns or even in the capitals of countries where the world language of english is not spoken .
berlin 's turkish community and the north african communities around paris seem increasingly separate , with their own public sphere and often language .
where this happens , an explosive condition can arise , a kind of separ atism within , not by historically separate groups but by newcomers against natives .
if we are forced to abandon the hope of assimil ation , our efforts should concentrate on creating a public space to which all contribute and that all enjoy .
ideally , this should be an expanding public space , for in the end , the element of unity in a modern society is the guarantee of its citizens ' liberty .
after austerity
new york – this year ’ s annual meeting of the international monetary fund made clear that europe and the international community remain rud der less when it comes to economic policy .
financial leaders , from finance ministers to leaders of private financial institutions , reiterated the current mantra : the crisis countries have to get their houses in order , reduce their deficits , bring down their national debts , undertake structural reforms , and promote growth .
confidence , it was repeatedly said , needs to be restored .
it is a little precious to hear such pon ti fications from those who , at the helm of central banks , finance ministries , and private banks , steered the global financial system to the brink of ruin – and created the ongoing mess .
worse , seldom is it explained how to square the circle .
how can confidence be restored as the crisis economies plunge into recession ?
how can growth be revived when austerity will almost surely mean a further decrease in aggregate demand , sending output and employment even lower ?
not only do they repeatedly generate destabilizing asset bubbles , but , when demand weakens , forces that exacerbate the downturn come into play .
unemployment , and fear that it will spread , drives down wages , incomes , and consumption – and thus total demand .
decreased rates of household formation – young americans , for example , are increasingly moving back in with their parents – depress housing prices , leading to still more forec lo sures .
states with bal anc ed- budget frameworks are forced to cut spending as tax revenues fall – an automatic destabil izer that europe seems mind lessly bent on adopting .
there are alternative strategies .
some countries , like germany , have room for fiscal maneuver . using it for investment would enhance long-term growth , with positive spillovers to the rest of europe .
a long- recognized principle is that balanced expansion of taxes and spending stimul ates the economy ; if the program is well designed ( taxes at the top , combined with spending on education ) , the increase in gdp and employment can be significant .
europe as a whole is not in bad fiscal shape ; its debt-to-gdp ratio compares favorably with that of the united states .
if each us state were totally responsible for its own budget , including paying all unemployment benefits , america , too , would be in fiscal crisis .
the lesson is obvious : the whole is more than the sum of its parts .
if europe – particularly the european central bank – were to borrow , and re- lend the proceeds , the costs of servicing europe ’ s debt would fall , creating room for the kinds of expenditure that would promote growth and employment .
there are already institutions within europe , such as the european investment bank , that could help finance needed investments in the cash- starved economies .
the e ib should expand its lending .
there need to be increased funds available to support small and medium-size enterprises – the main source of job creation in all economies – which is especially important , given that credit contraction by banks hits these enterprises especially hard .
europe ’ s single- minded focus on austerity is a result of a mis diagnosis of its problems .
greece over spent , but spain and ireland had fiscal surpluses and low debt-to-gdp ratios before the crisis .
giving lectures about fiscal prudence is beside the point .
taking the lectures seriously – even adopting tight budget frameworks – can be counterproductive .
regardless of whether europe ’ s problems are temporary or fundamental – the eurozone , for example , is far from an “ optimal ” currency area , and tax competition in a free-trade and free- migration area can erode a viable state – austerity will make matters worse .
the consequences of europe ’ s rush to austerity will be long-lasting and possibly severe .
if the euro survives , it will come at the price of high unemployment and enormous suffering , especially in the crisis countries .
and the crisis itself almost surely will spread .
fire walls won ’ t work , if ker os ene is simultaneously thrown on the fire , as europe seems committed to doing : there is no example of a large economy – and europe is the world ’ s largest – recovering as a result of austerity .
as a result , society ’ s most valuable asset , its human capital , is being wasted and even destroyed .
young people who are long deprived of a decent job – and youth unemployment in some countries is approaching or exceeding 50 % , and has been unacceptably high since 2008 – become alienated .
when they eventually find work , it will be at a much lower wage .
normally , youth is a time when skills get built up ; now , it is a time when they atro ph y .
so many economies are vulnerable to natural disasters – earthquakes , floods , typho ons , hurricanes , tsunamis – that adding a man-made disaster is all the more tragic .
but that is what europe is doing .
the pain that europe , especially its poor and young , is suffering is unnecessary .
fortunately , there is an alternative .
but delay in gras ping it will be very costly , and europe is running out of time .
immunization independence
washington , dc – the first years of this century have been heady ones for global health .
international donors – whether national governments , such as the united states , through its pe p far program , or new international funding initiatives , such as the global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria and gavi , the vaccine alliance – have invested billions of dollars in national disease- control programs and health systems , saving millions of lives .
but now some of the countries that have benefited from these programs face a new challenge : sustaining the gains they have made once external support is withdrawn .
ultimately , it is on the basis of this transition that donors ’ initiatives – and the health aid enterprise as a whole – will be judged .
consider gavi , the vaccine alliance .
founded in 2000 by a partnership of major donors , international agencies , and vaccine industry leaders , gavi ’ s goal is to help the world ’ s poorest countries introduce new lifes aving vaccines and strengthen their immunization programs .
when a country ’ s annual per capita income rises above a certain threshold – currently $ 1, 5 80 – it becomes in eligible for gavi support .
of course , gavi doesn ’ t just cut off funding all at once .
support is phased out over a period of several years .
during this transition period , countries rapidly increase their financial contribution to their immunization programs and prepare to assume full responsibility .
this approach , which enables gavi to concentrate its resources on countries with the greatest need , has been in place since 2010 .
but it is now being put to a stern test : one-third of the 73 countries to which gavi extends support are either in the midst of the transition process or have just completed it .
the group includes countries as different from one another as armenia , bhutan , hondur as , and vietnam , as well as india and nigeria , which have the largest birth cohor ts .
the gavi model is now under the mic ros cope .
will countries be able to continue purchasing and delivering the vaccines that were introduced with gavi support ?
equally important , will that commitment hold up over time ?
if government budgets are cut , will immunization be protected , along with other essential health services ?
will countries be able to introduce new lifes aving vaccines as they become available ?
will they sustain and strengthen disease surveillance , so that outbreaks are detected and addressed quickly ?
or will fiscal pressures lead , in some countries , to vaccine shortages , to declines in immunization coverage , or even , in the worst case , to vaccines being dropped altogether from national programs , reversing the hard-won gains of recent years ?
the answers to these questions are important not only for the countries themselves , but also for their neighbors , which could be put at risk by backsliding on immunization .
after all , infectious diseases do not respect national boundaries .
the recent yellow fever epidemic in angola , for example , spread to its much poorer neighbor , the democratic republic of congo .
the experiences of countries that have “ gradu ated ” from gavi assistance will also hold important lessons for other international health programs and their beneficiaries .
with so much at stake , international agencies must do whatever they can to prepare countries for “ life after gavi . ”
although immunization programs require only a relatively small share of health budgets and yield exceptionally high economic returns , securing the needed financing requires careful planning .
a new resource can help countries as they wrest le with this challenge .
immunization financing : a resource guide for advocates , policymakers , and program managers provides information on estimating immunization costs , assessing the pro s and con s of various sources of financing , shaping purchasing strategies , and navigating policy processes .
it does not prescr ibe one way forward , but rather provides relevant information and expert analysis .
countries can then evaluate options in light of their own circumstances , and advocates can ask the right questions .
with gavi support , close to 5 80 million children have been immun ized since 2000 , and more than eight million future deaths have been averted .
these are impressive gains that are worth celebrating .
but only if countries successfully negotiate the transition from gavi support can they be confident that future generations will enjoy the same health protections .
after kyoto
the kyoto protocol treaty has now entered into force for the 1 26 nations who have joined it so far .
now is the time to start thinking about how to engage all nations , including large emitters , in conversations about what to do after the treaty ’ s exp ir ation in 2012 .
this is exactly what the european commission did recently by providing its first strategy for a post- kyoto era , which will be discussed by the european council next march .
while the kyoto protocol represents only a modest reduction of carbon emissions in industrialized countries – 5.2 % between 2008- 2012 relative to 1990 levels , with varying targets for individual countries – real progress can be made in sustaining development efforts and preserving our planet .
but first , all countries must integrate climate concerns into policy planning , and improve their governance in key sectors such as energy , infrastructure , and transport .
in other words , we must act in accordance with the recognition that climate change and its effects on people in both rich and poor countries remains a threat to global security .
at the end of the day , the long-term approach is likely to include a rules-based system , an incentives system , and investments in technology change .
increasingly , adaptation at the national level will be recognized as a major issue that will require appropriate funding .
dealing with the impacts of climate change and with emission reductions should not be mutually exclusive , but complementary .
looking ahead to the post- kyoto world offers us the chance to start a new dialogue and to look at new options on climate change .
nations could set the more ambitious goal of limiting the long-term change in the earth ’ s temperature , and then as sign emissions rights among countries in such a way that will eventually limit temperature increases to an acceptable level .
this would require increasing investments in energy research and development for new and improved technologies – a process that needs to be supported by stronger public-private partnerships .
up to now , with only 15 % of the world ’ s population , rich countries have been responsible for more than 75 % of global carbon dioxide ( co2 ) emissions , and thus most of the environmental damage .
however , it is the developing countries – and thus the world ’ s poor – who are most vulnerable .
it is unrealistic to ask poor countries , where more than 1.6 billion people do not have access to clean energy and technologies , to bear the costs associated with the much needed technological change .
working with partners , the world bank is supporting financial strategies to assist developing countries in meeting the costs caused by climate change .
to date , over $ 1 billion dollars in global environment facility ( ge f ) grants , together with about $ 8 billion in co- financing , have been committed to programs related to climate change .
while the regulatory mechanisms of both kyoto and the european trading scheme have contributed to the establishment of an emerging market for carbon trading , interested parties are now concerned about the immediate future .
without a regulatory framework beyond 2012 , the window of opportunity for initiating projec t- based transactions will close by 200 6 / 2007 .
given the long lead time between project preparation and the first benefits of emissions reductions , project developers have only a few years to act before carbon payments cease to make a meaningful contribution to project finance in the current context .
therefore , projects need to be operational at the latest by 2007 .
the world bank has been instrumental in advancing carbon finance as a viable development tool , and in facilitating private-sector participation in the market .
the bank is focused on representing the interests of its borrowing countries , helping them to develop assets for carbon trading according to their own priorities .
but , without a commitment by governments to limit greenhouse gas emissions beyond 2012 , the carbon market will remain uncertain , and the private sector – vital to the market ’ s success – is unlikely to expand its participation in a meaningful and sustained way .
according to a recent world bank- supported survey of companies interested in carbon finance , only one in five respondents declared that they were interested in buying post- 2012 emissions reductions .
now is the chance to look forward and en list the global community – with no exclu sions , although with differentiated responsibilities – in the pursuit of a more secure world , one that avoids the dire risks of environmental degradation and social conflict implied by inaction .
after paris
new york – the attacks in paris by individuals associated with the islamic state , coming on the heels of bombings in beirut and the downing of a russian air liner over the sinai peninsula , reinforce the reality that the terrorist threat has entered a new and even more dangerous phase .
just why the islamic state decided to stage its attacks now is a matter for con jec ture ; it may well be that it is going global to compensate for its recent loss of territory in iraq .
but whatever the rationale , what is certain is that a clear response is warranted .
actually , the challenge posed by the islamic state calls for several responses , as there is no single policy that promises to be sufficient .
multiple efforts are needed in multiple domains .
one is military .
more intense attacks from the air against islamic state military assets , oil and gas facilities , and leaders are critical .
but no amount of air power on its own will ever get the job done .
a substantial ground component is needed if territory is to be taken and held .
unfortunately , there is no time to build a partner force on the ground from scratch .
this has been tried and failed , and arab states are unable or unwilling to constitute one .
the iraqi army has also come up short .
iran- backed militias only make matters worse .
the best option is to work more closely with kurdish troops and select sunni tribes in both iraq and syria .
this means providing intelligence , arms , and being willing to send more soldiers – more than the 3 ,500 americans already there , and possibly on the order of 10,000 – to train , advise , and help direct a military response .
such an effort must be collective .
it can be informal – a “ coalition of the willing ” that would include the united states , france , the united kingdom , arab states , and even russia under the right circumstances – or carried out under nato or united nations auspices .
the packaging matters less than the results .
symbolic declarations of war , though , ought to be considered with caution , lest the islamic state appear to be winning every day it does not lose .
a diplomatic component is no less essential to any response .
syrian president bashar al-assad is a recruiting tool for the islamic state and must go .
but any successor government must be able to maintain order and not permit the islamic state to exploit a power vacuum , as it has done in libya .
one near-term option worth exploring is a coalition government still headed by a representative of the alawite minority , a concession that could well be the price of moving assad out of power .
in principle , and over time , a more representative national government could come about , although talk of holding elections in 18 months is fanciful under any scenario .
but reaching a compromise along these lines could well be impossible .
this is why increased military effort is needed to bring about larger and more secure enclaves that could better protect civilians and take the fight to the islamic state .
syria is not a normal country in any sense , and it will not be for a long time , if ever .
a syria of enclaves or c ant ons is a more realistic model for the foreseeable future .
other indispensable elements of any effective strategy include expanded help for or pressure on turkey to do much more to stem the flow of recruits to the islamic state .
and turkey , along with jordan and lebanon , need more financial assistance as they shoulder the bulk of the refugee burden .
arab and muslim leaders can do their part by speaking out to challenge the islamic state ’ s vision and delegitim ize its behavior .
there is also a domestic dimension to policy .
homeland security and law enforcement – increasing protection both at borders and within them – will have to adjust to the increased threat .
retail terrorists – individuals or small groups carrying out armed attacks against soft targets in open societies – are extremely difficult to deal with .
the threat and the reality of attacks will require greater social resilience and quite possibly a rebalancing of individual privacy and collective security .
what is also required is a dose of realism .
the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war .
we can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon , as it is as much a network and an idea as it is an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources .
indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of the scour ges of this era .
the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be dramatically reduced through sustained , concerted action .
the main lesson of the attack on paris is that we must be prepared to act over time and place alike .
after pax americana ?
new york – it has become popular to suggest that when the dust sett les from the global financial crisis , it may become clear that the united states -led post-war world has come to an end .
if so , the global system that has secured peace , security , openness , and economic growth over the past six decades could be in grave danger .
inspired by american leadership since world war ii ’ s end , europe , then japan , then much of asia and the world rose to new levels of prosperity ; the world economy globalized upon the foundation of international institutions , norms , and standards ; and foreign students educated in american universities returned home with new ideas about free markets , entrepreneurship , and democracy .
the us military ’ s protective umbrella gave large swaths of the world a vacation from war , making it easier for them to focus on economic growth and regional integration .
america not only took the lead role in building the institutions of a glob alizing world – the united nations , world bank , imf , nat o – it also became the model that many other countries looked to for inspiration .
after eight years of compromised american leadership , a bot ched war of choice in iraq , failure to take the lead in global efforts to address climate change , abu ghraib , guantánamo bay , running up a $ 10 trillion debt , and ign iting a global financial crisis – america ’ s once- g lit tering model has lost a good deal of its luster and america ’ s leadership has been questioned by many .
the point was driven home at the 7 th asia- europe meeting ( as em ) in beijing this autumn , where european and asian leaders began exploring ideas for a new global financial structure .
for much of the past 60 years , it would have been impossible to hold such a fundamental dialogue without us participation . today , it is almost becoming a new global norm that neither the international committee nor the us is prepared for .
despite talk about american decline , the world is not prepared for a post- american era .
if the us were to play a relatively smaller role in world affairs , and no other system was created to pick up the slack , these values could be at risk .
although many states now hide behind an alleged universal principle of in viol able state sovereignty , for example , would the international community really want to go back to the old model where states did whatever they wanted to their citizens within the confin es of their own borders ?
do countries around the world believe that they will be better off if the global trade system breaks down or international shipping lanes become less secure ?
are countries like china willing to step up and pay their fair share of du es to keep the un running ( china currently pays 2.1 % of un du es , compared to more than 25 % for the us ) , or to capitalize revised international financial institutions or the global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria in a meaningful way ?
unless other countries become more willing to step forward for the common good , a post- american world could quickly become a far more frightening environment than what it would replace .
to make its case for a continued global leadership role , america must , however , step up to the plate . while the go- it- alone impulse of the bush administration has been discredited by its consequences , the in verse lessons regarding how important collaborative action is in today ’ s interconnected world are still being learned .
even at the ap ex of american power , america ’ s greatness was always based on inspiring others , and the opportunities for building market share in that particular category remain unlimited .
it is impossible to overestimate how significant a step barack obama ’ s election is in this direction , but america ’ s actions over the coming years will be the ultimate determinant of whether the power of america ’ s model can be restored .
america can and should , for example , become the global leader combating climate change through major investments in alternative energy , conservation , and energy efficiency , and by taking strong actions at home to reduce america ’ s greenhouse gas emissions . it should transform its immigration policy to recruit the best and brightest people from around the world to move to the us and become citizens , and remain the world ’ s leading champion of open markets , especially during the current financial crisis .
closing the prison at guantánamo and reaffir ming america ’ s commitment to international law and human rights will also be an important step in this direction .
the world wants to believe in an america that lives up to its own best values .
the prospect of a truly global community of nations working together to achieve the greater good for all is indeed exciting .
but , although america has been far from perfect over the last six decades , the end of the pax americana has the potential to create a dangerous void in international affairs .
if the world is going to shift in the direction of a new and more globally democratic system , other nations will need to meaning fully step forward to assume new responsibilities .
it is in america ’ s and the world ’ s interest that they do so . the evidence of this will be seen not only in global institutions but also in places like darfur , zimbabwe , and burma .
until this happens , let us all hope that america can get back on track as the global champion of collaborative action to address the world ’ s greatest challenges and work with as many other countries as possible to move collectively in the right direction .
after the guns of august
the middle east is a place where the dust hardly ever sett les .
when it occasionally does , even for a short interv al – as un resolution 17 0 1 for c ess ation of hostilities in lebanon seems to be holding – it is time to take stock of events in the hopes that a responsible debate may influence those in power .
let ’ s start with the united states .
president george w. bush has been short on neither initiatives nor catch y slogans and ac ron y ms .
recent years are lit tered with them : “ global war on terror ” ( g w ot ) , “ road map , ” “ middle east partnership initiative “ ( me p i ) , “ broader middle east and north africa ” ( b mena ) – originally “ greater middle east initiative ( g me i ) – democracy assisted dialogue ( d ad ) , and so on .
his latest rever ie , envisioned in the th ick of the recent fighting between israel and hezbollah , was the new middle east ( n me ) , with us clients israel , egypt , jordan , and saudi arabia serving as the pillars of regional order .
but like all his previous initiatives since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington almost five years ago now , the n me ran into trouble from the outset .
secretary of state condoleez za rice announced its birth while rejecting an immediate ceasefire in lebanon .
her poor timing made the initiative appear hear tless , as thousands of civilians were being upro oted , killed , or ma im ed by israel ’ s efficient but ruthless artillery and air force .
this so embarr assed the three arab n me partners that each rac ed to distance itself from the us- sponsored initiative .
saudi arabia , which had remained silent for nearly two weeks , did so with a $ 500 million contribution to rebuilding devastated areas of lebanon and another billion to support lebanon ’ s threatened currency .
egypt ’ s heir apparent gamal mubarak followed suit in the fourth week of the fighting by heading a 7 0- member delegation on a solidarity visit to beirut .
as for america , anything it tou ches in the middle east has become radioactive , even for longstanding clients and friends .
in the course of maneu vering to delay the un ceasefire , bush and rice continually reiterated the need for a security council resolution that deals forcefully with “ the roots of the problem . ”
of course , for them and for israel , this was hezbollah and the need to eradicate or at a minimum dis arm it and force its fighters to a safe distance from settlements and towns in northern israel .
while this is a reasonable demand , the rest of the middle east – and , indeed , much of the world , including europe – regard the root cause of the conflict as israeli intransigence and arrogance , together with america ’ s blind support for it .
both america and israel have cited foo t- dragging in implementing un resolution 15 59 , which calls for dis arming all non-state actors in lebanon and the deployment of government forces all the way to the southern border .
but for years the us and israel have not ut tered a word about the dozens of un resolutions , going back as far as resolution 49 on partition in 1947 , which called for the establishment of distinct arab and jewish states on roughly half of mandated palestine .
this and numerous other resolutions seeking redress for injustices toward palestinians have been ignored by the us .
thus , for 300 million arabs and more than one billion muslims the “ root cause ” of the middle east conflict is not hezbollah .
as its leader , hassan nas r allah ap tly put it , “ we are just a reaction to chronic injustice . ”
it may well be that there is more than one root cause – every party to the conflict has a favorite one .
there is no point in bel abor ing whose pain is greater or whose root cause is deeper .
in fact , arguing over grievances merely drives the sides further apart .
the long overdue un resolution 17 0 1 may , with its adoption , indicate that all parties are fati gu ed , or could no longer withstand international pressure .
this is good news for all concerned and provides an opportunity to tackle each party ’ s “ root cause . ”
seizing the opportunity requires that humility rather than moral supremacy prevails .
empathy , not eth no centr ism , should be the order of the day now that the guns are falling silent and we have re discovered the limits of military force .
but if we have learned anything at all from the tragic assass inations of the region ’ s greatest peacem akers , anwar sadat and yitzhak rabin , it is that the guns do not remain silent for long .
during any l ull , a fan atic from either side could jump to center stage and , through an act of utter madness , kick up the settling dust and d ash the hopes of the many on both sides who still long for a lasting peace .
after the millennium development goals
cambridge – in 2000 , 18 9 countries collectively adopted the united nations millennium declaration , which evolved into a set of concrete targets called the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) .
these ambitious targets – ranging from halving extreme poverty and reducing maternal mortality by three-quarters to achieving universal primary schooling and halting ( and beginning to reverse ) the spread of hiv/aids – are supposed to be met by the end of 2015 .
as the deadline approaches , development experts are debating a new question : what comes next ?
it is virtually certain that many of the mdgs will not have been met by the end of 2015 , but there have been striking successes in some areas .
for example , the goal of halving extreme poverty ( measured by the number of people living on less than $ 1.25 a day ) will likely be achieved ahead of time , largely thanks to china ’ s phenomen al growth .
at the same time , there is little evidence to suggest that those successes were the result of the mdgs themselves .
china implemented the policies that engineered history ’ s greatest poverty eradication program prior to , and independently from , the millennium declaration and the mdgs .
clearly , however , the mdgs were a public-relations triumph , which is not to bel it tle their contribution .
like all worthwhile pr efforts , the mdgs served to raise awareness , galvanize attention , and mobilize action – all for a good cause .
they amplified the global conversation about development and defined its terms .
indeed , the mdgs possibly had their clearest impact on aid flows from rich to poor countries .
a study by charles ken ny and and y sum ner for the center for global development in washington , dc , suggests that the mdgs not only boosted aid flows , but also re directed them toward smaller , poorer countries , and toward targeted areas like education and public health .
however , aid was not directly linked to performance and results , and it is much more difficult to know whether it had the desired impact overall .
the mdgs encomp ass eight goals , 21 targets , and 60 indicators .
much criticism has focused on the use of these numer ical targets and indicators , which , skeptics argue , are mis specified , mis measured , and divert attention from equally important areas .
but these complaints miss the point .
any effort that is concrete and implem entable needs to monitor the results , and setting clear numer ical targets is the best way to do so .
still , a central paradox pl agues the mdgs .
the millennium declaration was meant to be a compact between the world ’ s rich and poor countries .
poor countries promised to re focus their development efforts while rich countries pledged to support them with finance , technology , and access to their markets .
but , od dly , of the eight goals , only the last one deals with “ global partnership , ” or what rich countries can and should do .
even here , the mdgs contain no numer ical target for financial aid or any other aspect of rich countries ’ assistance , in contrast to the highly specific poverty- related targets set for developing countries .
it is perhaps telling that the “ progress char ts ” prepared by the united nations development program , the agency charged with reporting on progress toward achieving the mdgs , track only internet usage under that goal .
why we need a global effort to convince developing countries to do what is good for them is not clear .
poverty reduction and human development should be the first order of business for governments in these countries , with or without the mdgs .
it is true , of course , that these governments often pursue different goals , for political , military , and other reasons .
but it is wishful thinking to believe that they can be persuaded to act otherwise by international declarations that lack enforcement mechanisms .
if we have learned one thing in the development business , it is that real reform can not be bought with donors ’ money , let alone with vague promises of money .
equally problematic , the mdgs implicitly assume that we know how to achieve development targets , and that only resources and political will are missing .
but it is doubtful that even well-intentioned policymakers have a good handle on , say , how to raise secon dar y- school completion rates sustainably or reduce maternal mortality .
many development economists would argue that significant improvements in governance and political institutions are required before such goals can be achieved .
the most that rich countries can do is to provide an enabling environment for the benefit of developing countries that are willing and able to take advantage of it .
these considerations suggest an obvious direction for the next iter ation of the mdgs .
first , a new global compact should focus more directly on rich countries ’ responsibilities .
second , it should emphasize policies beyond aid and trade that have an equal , if not greater , impact on poor countries ’ development prospects .
a short list of such policies would include : carbon taxes and other measures to ameliorate climate change ; more work visas to allow larger temporary migration flows from poor countries ; strict controls on arms sales to developing nations ; reduced support for repressive regimes ; and improved sharing of financial information to reduce money laundering and tax avoidance .
notice that most of these measures are actually aimed at reducing damage – for example , climate change , military conflict , and financial crime – that otherwise results from rich countries ’ conduct .
“ do no harm ” is as good a principle here as it is in medicine .
this kind of re orientation will not be easy .
but most of these measures do not cost money , and , as the mdgs have shown , setting targets can be used to mobilize action from rich-country governments .
if the international community is going to invest in a bold new public-relations initiative , it might as well focus on areas where the potential pay offs are the greatest .
after the promised land
london – at the height of the arab uprisings last spring , many europeans were gripped by nightmare visions of a tsunami of migrants cr ashing against the continent ’ s shores .
the wave never hit , but its specter fed a ten acious anti-immigrant populism that has conce aled an important new trend : migration to europe – and to the united states – has largely stalled .
in many countries , more immigrants are leaving than are arriving , owing mainly to the economic crisis that has dra ined jobs in the west .
that reversal is one of the great under- reported stories of 2011 ( and of the preceding two years ) , and the numbers are startling .
consider spain , which is on track to lose more than a half-million residents by 2020 .
by contrast , between 2002 and 2008 , spain ’ s population grew by 700,000 a year , driven largely by immigration .
the trends are similar elsewhere in europe .
while this fact alone will not quiet opponents of immigration , it does give countries more breathing room to repair and strengthen badly broken systems for receiving and integrating newcomers .
although rapidly aging western countries are unable to attract the immigrants they need , they allow millions who are already there to suffer discrimination and abuse .
det entions and de port ations take place under sometimes terrible conditions .
meanwhile , the international community collectively fails to protect vast populations of vulnerable migrants , such as the millions stranded by the recent conflicts in north africa .
undoubtedly , rising anti-immigrant populism must be confronted .
while polling suggests that attitudes are influenced more by ethnicity than religion , both help to define identities and mind sets .
political parties in france , switzerland , and the netherlands ( to name a few ) have run successful campaigns that scapegoat immigrants .
moreover , governments from al ab ama to hungary are passing laws that undermine what should be migrants ’ rights .
italy recently adopted harsh “ emergency ” decre es that target migrants by making undocumented entry and residence a criminal offense .
anti-immigrant rhetoric from the political extremes has fed into mainstream political discourse .
european leaders trip over themselves to declare , one more forcefully than the next , that multiculturalism is dead .
dutch politician geert wilders , whose freedom party is informally part of the governing coalition , did them one better by being charged with incitement to anti-muslim hatred .
in the us , al lig ator - filled mo ats and electr ified border fences have featured in the current presidential campaign .
such attacks on immigration might offer some instant political grati fication , but their net result is to cle a ve societies whose cohesion is already seriously challenged by the economic crisis .
growing discrimination in employment , housing , and education affects not just immigrants and their children ; it harms our societies as a whole .
with the l ull in net immigration , we now have a window of opportunity to address these shortcomings .
deb un king the myths about migration – that most immigrants enter un law fully , for example , or that immigration dis places existing workers – would be a good place to start .
it would also be useful to explain that immigration is necessary for prosperity and growth in almost all oecd countries .
if aging societies in the west and elsewhere ( like japan ) fail to get immigration right , they will be woefully unprepared when they confront the real ti dal wave : the retirement of baby boom ers in the coming two decades .
the european union ’ s labor force will decline by almost 70 million workers in the next 40 years ; in the absence of significant net immigration ( combined with a much higher retirement age ) , european economies and social safety nets will sh ri vel .
the priorities are clear .
we need to understand better how our economies will evolve in the coming decades , and to re design our educational systems to produce workers with usable skills .
and , where it is clear that immigrants will be needed , we must be able to identify , welcome , integrate , and protect them .
meanwhile , our most fundamental institutions – schools , police , and the courts – must be re- engineered to reflect and respond to the diversity of our communities , which is now a fact of life .
countries must learn to work together to achieve these goals , few of which can be reached by going it alone .
if our tool box were empty , our inaction might be understandable .
but examples of smart migration practices abound .
canada and the philippines , for instance , have a well-functioning accord that protects the rights of temporary workers .
sweden has developed legislation that minim izes bureaucracy for companies that need foreign workers .
and important advances have been made in ensuring that immigrant children receive the education that they need to become full members of society .
progress is being made on the global level as well , despite the economic crisis and populist headwinds .
in june , the international labor organization ’ s member states overwhelmingly approved the domestic workers convention , which will significantly increase protections for a vulnerable group of workers – the majority of whom are migrants .
meanwhile , the global forum on migration and development , established in 2007 , has quickly become an important means of fostering knowledge and partnerships .
the reason for growing international cooperation is simple : countries everywhere are affected by migration , and , increasingly , they are experiencing immigration and emigration simultaneously .
indeed , roughly one-third of migrants nowadays move between developed countries ; one-third move between developing countries ; and only one-third move from the developing to the developed world .
highly skilled workers , such as bankers and engineers , are f locking to china .
mexico , known primarily as a country of emigration , is home to millions of migrants from central america .
millions of people in southeast asia venture to the middle east to work , but millions more cross borders within the region .
the list goes on .
when it comes to migration , we are all in the same boat – and that boat is lea king .
starting in 2012 , countries should re double their efforts to fix it .
a future without precedent
jerusalem – in my nearly nine decades of life , i can not recall a time in which the past was so irrelevant to policymaking .
all of today ’ s significant developments went un predicted by anyone .
experts studied the past , but , constrained by old paradig ms , they could not discern the future .
today ’ s dynamic complexity , in which a sci ence-based , fast- changing global economy makes so many more phenomena interdependent , prevents us from forese eing the future through linear extrapol ations of the past .
the only certainty is that the future will be defined by scientific progress and innovation , which can not be known ahead of time .
as a result , the traditional power of states and leaders is declining ; in today ’ s global economy , innovators , not politicians , wield the most influence .
global companies wish to do business worldwide , eroding not just sovereignty , but also racism and prejudice , as well as significantly weakening nationalism .
this transformation has placed the world in the hands of a younger generation , more technologically savvy than their parents and connected to one another through social networks that are not confined by territory , language , or government .
the young leaders who created facebook and google have had a greater global impact than many statesmen and generals .
these young people are also the leaders of erup ting political protest movements .
the “ arab spring , ” the t ent demonstrations in israel , occupy wall street , and the protests in russia reveal not a clash of civilizations , but a battle of generations .
the young generation understands that the way states and economies are currently run is un fit for the new era .
yet there are political “ hit ch hi kers ” who want to exploit the recent awakening , not by promoting an agenda of freedom , but by imposing a different type of coercion .
in the arab world , it is mainly extreme islamists who are hij acking the young generation ’ s wave , stealing their revolution .
israel has reacted positively to the will of the young generation , but it can not and should not intervene in events in the arab world .
our hearts are with the rebel ling young sters and their legitimate yearning for freedom and basic rights to express themselves , choose their leaders , and earn their own living .
israelis wait for the day when our country will no longer be the region ’ s only democracy , because being an island of prosperity in a sea of poverty is un natural .
yet there is a real concern that the extremists , who are politically well organized , are seeking to gain control by the ballot over less- organized liberals , thus preventing peace and stability .
fundamentalist radicals can not provide real solutions to the region ’ s basic problems .
the social changes now underway threaten their way of life , which includes discrimination against women and a ban on modern education .
but only profound reforms of traditional authority can pave the way towards freedom and growth .
israel can serve as an example to others striving to reach economic prosperity and social freedom , because its success is due to the fact that the country had absolutely nothing at the start .
we returned to our homeland , rich with history , but devoid of natural resources .
israel was left with only one resource : its human capital .
so we invested in education and science , and today we have the world ’ s highest percentage of scientists and patents per capita .
roughly 95 % of our agriculture is hi - tech .
we use less water and yield more crops per ac re than any other country in the world .
what israel can do , others can do as well .
we will g lad ly offer a helping hand to whoever is willing to reach for it .
together , in peace with our neighbors , we can create a region of hope , development , and success .
in particular , we must do everything in our power to end the conflict with the palestinians .
israel was not born , and it is not israel ’ s destiny , to govern another people .
we are sincer ely interested in the establishment of a palestinian state living peacefully side- by- side with israel , the democratic state of the jewish people .
for us , peace is both a moral imperative and a national-security strategy , because resolving the conflict would help to stabilize the region by neutr alizing the extremists who seek to manipulate today ’ s popular movements to advance their radical agenda .
the international community can support these efforts by providing incentives to countries that choose freedom and progress .
in particular , iran is a f oun t of moral corruption that spear heads extremism and hal ts reform , crushing the legitimate protest of its own citizens and acting against the brave syrians now fighting for their freedom .
iran also uses proxies to instig ate terror against moderate forces in the palestinian authority , lebanon , and iraq .
if iran is successful in its plan to acquire nuclear weapons , its leaders could shake the middle east and encourage more extremism and violence .
israel will defend itself if iran continues to call for its destruction .
however , the threat is not to israel alone ; iran is a danger to the peace and stability of the entire world .
the world ’ s democracies have declared that they will not allow iran to possess nuclear arms ; it is their duty to follow through on that commitment , before doing so becomes impossible .
beyond the short-term challenges ahead , we all have a duty to profoundly change the way we prepare our children to cope with today ’ s new world .
in an era where yesterday has become almost irrelevant and we can hardly predict tomorrow , the role of education must allow all children to reach their highest potential .
today ’ s educators should inspire our children towards creativity and innovation .
self- expression is as important as free expression .
i write this in the 8 8th year of my life , but not because i have learned from experience .
on the contrary , experience is over rated , often constraining the courage needed to face tomorrow and build an unprecedented new world .
the future is already here ; there is no point in looking back .
against simp lification
new york – it is said that americans have a genius for simp lification .
gradually , however , the quest for it has become a global trend , one that continues to conqu er new territories , just as blue je ans once did .
the speed of our daily life is visibly increased – and not for the better – by this unstoppable evolution .
the tyranny of pragmatism seems to mark all of the complex dilemmas of our time .
too many valid choices are ignored or skir ted through the routine of short- cuts .
nowhere is this trend more damaging than in today ’ s mercanti le approach to art .
even the much- praised notion of competition seems fake and cyn ically manipulated by the “ corporate ” mentality that now perv ades the world of culture – by the financial pre- selection that determines what publish ers , producers , and other impres ar ios will support .
just imagine what might have happened with the works of , say , prou st , k af ka , mus il , fa ul kn er , or b org es had they been subjected to mass -market competition like shoes or cos me tics .
culture is a necessary pause from the daily r at race , from our chaotic and often vul gar political surr ound ings , and it is a chance to recover our spiritual energy .
great books , music , and pain tings are not only an extraordinary school of beauty , truth , and good , but also a way of discovering our own beauty , truth , and good – the potential for change , of bet tering ourselves and even some of our interlocutors .
if this respite and refuge is gradually narrowed and invaded by the same kind of “ products ” as those that dominate the mass market , we are condemned to be perpetual cap tives of the same stunted universe of “ practic alities , ” the ordinary agg l omer ation of clich és packaged in advertis ements .
i was thinking again about these old and seemingly un solv able questions during my re- reading of a quite challenging novel by a close friend and a great writer , not very present in the vivid landscape of american letters of today .
the theme , style , and echo of his work says a lot , i think , about our sim pli fied world .
the novel is blin ding , by cl audi o mag ris .
hailed in europe as one of the great novel s of the twentieth century , blin ding arrived in america only after a great delay , and never received the attention that it deserved .
the number of literary transl ations done nowadays in the united states is , according to a united nations report , equal to that of greece , a country one- tenth the size .
imported books are thought to be too “ complicated , ” which is another way of saying that literature should deal with simple issues in a simple way , obe ying the rules of the mass market , with its tricks of packaging , acces sibility , advertis ement , and comfort .
at the core of mag ris ’ book is the destiny of a group of italian communists who travel to yugoslavia after the second world war to contribute to the construction of a socialist society , only to be caught in the conflict between stalin and ti to .
they are imprisoned for their stal inist allegiance ; when they are finally allowed to return to italy , their old com r ades refuse to accept them .
the book ’ s plot sp ans two centuries of revolution .
then , suddenly ,
“ the party vanished , overnight , as if all of a sudden a giant spon ge had dra ined the entire sea , ad ri atic and austr al , leaving lit ter and clo ts of mu d , and all the boats stranded .
how can you go home again if the sea has been suc ked down a vast drain that opened up beneath it , emp tying it who knows where , into a void ?
the earth is ar id and dead , but there won ’ t be another one , nor another heaven . ”
the sol itude of the individual facing his faith alone , without collective illusions , and forced to do something with himself in the ar id , no is y world tells us something important about the exiled world of modernity and its complex and contradictory problems .
mag ris ’ s novel is not only an important literary achievement ; it also has a deep connection to the dangers that we face now , particularly the wave of fanati cism , from mumbai to oslo , in the name of a holy war against the “ other . ”
are all the extremists searching for a new coherence , for a lost illusion of toge ther ness and a new hope of resurrec tion ?
can we ever forget september 11 , 2001 , the start of a bloody century in which the my sti cal force of hatred and destruction has recovered its strength ?
are osama bin laden ’ s min ions , the bloody ham as- hezbollah batt al ions , or troubled lon ers like timo thy mc ve igh , the od ore kacz yn ski , and now norway ’ s anders beh ring bre iv ik , the “ heroes ” of our contemporary nightmare ?
is this the “ rebel ” response to an overly globalized , incoherent , and ultimately disturbing reality ?
if so , their barbar ism demands scrutiny – in relation to both historical precedent and to our modernity – rather than merely being labeled “ mon str ous ” ( though it certainly is that ) .
the new religious militants , fighting in the name of their particular and peculiar god , seem as fanati ci zed as the fasci sts , nazis , and communists of earlier decades .
mag ris ’ s main character is a rebel in more than one em bodi ment : as salv at ore cip ic o , one of the in mates in the communist concentration camp in yugoslavia ; as j urg en jur gen sen , eph emer al king of iceland and a convic t forced to build his own jail ; and as j as on , the myth ic adventur er searching for the volatile truth .
a multi lay ered and complex chron ic le of the devastating tragedies of the twentieth century , blin ding is an insist ent , informed , and irre plac eable incursion into the moving landscape of the human soul , its wounds and vo ids , its vitality and vers ati lity , its deep distortions and its unpredictable dynamics .
it is a fascinating story about the conflict between ideals and reality , or ut opia and human ness ; about being faithful to a cause and betr aying it ; and about sacrifice and solidarity .
it is also a rich and original literary achievement that challenges today ’ s consum er ist ethic .
by ren ouncing simplicity , it also repudi ates today ’ s prevailing confusion of information with literature , of facts with creativity , and best- selling products with true works of art .
an agenda for resolving the us-china conflict
new haven – with charges flying back and forth between the united states and china ahead of the eagerly awaited december 1 meeting between president donald trump and president xi jinping at the upcoming g20 meeting in buenos aires , resolving the conflict has taken on great urgency .
the alternatives pose grave risks for both countries : an ever- escalating trade war , a cold war , or even a hot war .
these risks can be avoided , but only if both leaders are willing to engage in principled compromise .
there is no question that a serious conflict has been building for a long time .
contrary to the us narrative , the problem is not the outsize bilateral trade deficit between the world ’ s two largest economies .
that is largely an out growth of macroeconomic imbalances that afflic t both sides : china saves too much and the us saves too little .
the us had merchandise trade deficits with 10 2 countries in 2017 , whereas china had trade surpluses with 16 9 countries in 2016 .
squeeze one part of the multilateral imbalance for a deficit country or a surplus sa ver , and it simply gets allocated to other trading partners .
for the us , this would lead to higher- cost imports – the functional equivalent of a tax hike on consumers .
for china , it would spell increased export penetration into other markets .
fix ation on the blame game of bilateral trade imbalances over looks the possibility that this is a classic struggle of codependency .
yes , china has long relied on the us as the major source of external demand for its export-led economy .
but the us needs low-cost imports from china to make ends meet for its income- constrained consumers ; it also relies on china as the largest foreign bu yer of us treasuries to help fund chronic government budget deficits .
and , as america ’ s third largest and most rapidly growing export market , china has become an increasingly important source of demand for us firms .
the codependency framework is important because it underscores the need for joint resolution and compromise .
as in inter personal relationships , economic codependency can be destabilizing and ultimately destructive .
when one partner changes course , the other , feeling scor ned , l ashes out in response .
china , in this case , is the change agent – shifting its growth model from manufacturing to services , from exports to internal consumption , and from imported technology to indigenous innovation .
at the same time , china is also moving from surplus saving to saving absorption , leaving it less to lend to its deficit partner , the us .
uncomfortable in its own skin , the us feels threatened by a partner that is changing the rules of this relationship .
while trump has acted on those threats far more aggressively than his predecessors , there can be no mist aking the bipartisan us sentiment now aligned against china .
according to a september 2018 ax ios survey , fully 80 % of republicans – long the party most supportive of free trade – believed that increased tariffs would be good for the us .
leading republicans , such as vice president mike pence and former treasury secretary henry paulson , have warned of a new cold war with china , while leading democrats have come to the view that china has abrog ated its role as a responsible global stakeholder .
at a time of ever- escalating threats and counter- threats , the imperative of compromise can not be underst ated .
the upcoming meeting between trump and xi provides an opportunity to re frame the conflict as a strategic challenge for the world ’ s two leading economies .
four possible avenues to consider :
market access : after ten years of tor tuous negotiations , the time for a breakthrough on a us-china bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) is at hand .
both sides would need to offer concessions .
a bit would lift ownership caps on foreign direct investment by multinational corporations in both countries , eliminating the contentious joint - venture structure in china that the us continues to insist – in correctly , in my view – has become a mechanism for forced technology transfer .
a bit would also enable an expansion of chinese ownership of us- dom ic iled assets – posing a challenge to the anti- china thrust of recent legislation that broad ens the oversight powers of the committee on foreign investment in the united states .
saving : both countries need to commit to responsible macroeconomic adjustments .
the us needs to save more , reversing the reckless budge t- bu sting trajectory reinforced by last year ’ s ill- timed , outsize tax cuts .
rebuilding saving , rather than tariffs , is the most effective strategy to reduce trade deficits with china or any other trading partner .
at the same time , china needs to save less , putting its vast pool of capital to work funding the country ’ s social safety net , which is essential for consumer- led economic rebalancing .
cyber security : the digital realm is the battle ground of the information age , and the september 2015 accord between president barack obama and xi clearly did not go far enough in def using persistent tensions over online espionage , hacking , and disruption .
dialogue : it is terr ific that the two presidents are meeting again after their earlier t ê te- à- t ê tes in beijing and at mar - a- l ago .
those gather ings follow more formal eng ag ements such as the strategic and economic dialogue .
but all of these efforts have been epis odic events that are long on g litz and short on substance .
a permanent secretariat that would engage in full-time collaborative efforts on key policy issues ( including data sharing , joint research , and public-private consultation ) would be far more productive .
in light of contentious recent developments between the us and china , it is hard to be optimistic that a meaningful breakthrough is at hand .
an agenda of substance should be used as a check list against any accord that may be struck by trump and xi .
the world is watching .
the age of hyper- uncertainty
berlin – the year 2017 will mark the 4 0th anniversary of the publication of john kenneth gal bra ith ’ s the age of uncertainty .
forty years is a long time , but it is worth looking back and reminding ourselves of how much gal bra ith and his readers had to be uncertain about .
in 1977 , as gal bra ith was writing , the world was still reeling from the effects of the first opec oil-price shock and wondering whether another one was in the pipeline ( as it were ) .
the united states was confronting slowing growth and accelerating inflation , or stagflation , a novel problem that raised questions about policymakers ’ competence and the adequacy of their economic models .
meanwhile , efforts to rebuild the bretton woods international monetary system had collapsed , casting a shadow over prospects for international trade and global economic growth .
for all these reasons , the golden age of stability and predictability that was the third quarter of the twentieth century seemed to have abruptly drawn to a close , to be succeeded by a period of greatly heightened uncertainty .
that ’ s how things looked in 1977 , anyway .
viewed from the perspective of 2017 , however , the uncertainty of 1977 seems almost enviable .
in 1977 , there was no president donald trump .
jimmy carter may not go down in history as one of the best us presidents , but he did not threaten actions that placed the entire global system at risk .
he did not turn his back on america ’ s international commitments such as nato and the world trade organization .
nor did carter go to war with the federal reserve or pack its board with sympathetic appointees willing to sacrifice sound money to his reelection prospects .
on the contrary , he appointed paul volcker , a tow ering pillar of monetary stability , as chairman of the board of governors .
and although carter did not succeed in balancing the federal budget , he didn ’ t blow it up , either .
whether trump sl aps a tariff on chinese goods , repudi ates the north american free trade agreement , p acks the federal reserve board , or undermines fiscal sustainability remains to be seen .
conceivable outcomes range from mil dly reassuring to utterly catastrophic .
who knows what will happen ?
by today ’ s standards , carter was the em bodi ment of predictability .
in 1977 , moreover , the prospects for european integration were rosy .
denmark , ireland , and , most notably , the united kingdom had recently joined a rapidly growing european community .
the ec was attracting members , not losing them .
moreover , to buttress its common market , the ec had just established a regional monetary system , the sugges tively named “ s na ke in the tun nel . ”
while this was far from a perfect monetary system , it had one very positive attribute : countries could leave in hard economic times , and re join if and when the outlook brigh tened .
in 2017 , in contrast , negotiations over brexit will continue to cast a dark cloud of uncertainty over the european union .
how those negotiations will proceed and how long they will take are anyone ’ s guess .
moreover , the main questions raised by britain ’ s decision to leave – whether other countries will follow and , indeed , whether the eu itself has a future – remain far from resolved .
meanwhile europe ’ s monetary house remains half built .
the eurozone is neither appealing enough to attract additional members nor flexible enough to grant troubled incumbents a temporary holiday , in the manner of the currency s na ke . the euro will likely survive the year , inertia being what it is .
in 1977 , uncertainties emanating from emerging markets were not on commentators ’ radar screens .
developing countries in latin america and east asia were growing , although they depended increasingly on a dr ip feed of foreign loans from money- center banks .
china , still largely cut off from the world , did not figure in this discussion .
and even if something went wrong in the third world , developing countries were simply too small to drag down the global economy .
the situation today couldn ’ t be more different .
what happens in china , brazil , or turkey doesn ’ t stay in china , brazil , or turkey .
on the contrary , developments in these countries have first- order implications for the world economy , given how emerging markets have accounted for the majority of global growth in recent years .
china has an un manageable corporate- debt problem and a government whose commitment to restructuring the economy is uncertain .
turkey has a massive current-account deficit , an erratic president , and an unstable geopolitical neighborhood .
and if political scandals were export goods , brazil would have a clear comparative advantage .
although the age of uncertainty was about much more than the year 1977 , it captured the ten or of the times .
but if gal bra ith were writing the same book in 2017 , he probably would call the 1970s the age of assurance .
a german europe ?
lis bon / rig a – is the europe that is emerging from the euro crisis a german one ?
during the euro crisis , power in the european union seems to have shifted towards national capitals in general , and towards one national capital in particular : berlin .
but , with germany intro verted , france downgrad ed , and britain semi- det ached , the big story in european foreign policy is that the time has come for the little guy who thinks big .
in this europe , the important moves are now sometimes made in stockholm or warsaw , not only in berlin , paris , or london .
and , with major foreign-policy issues on europe ’ s door step – whether in egypt , belarus , or now syria – useful european initiatives are to be welcomed , regardless of where they originate .
germany , in foreign policy as well as in economics , can exert decisive leadership in the eu – when it wants to .
for example , together with poland , it led the eu ’ s attempt to develop a coordinated approach to russia , and it flex ed its muscles on serbia .
but , on other issues – for example , libya – germany did not so much lead as use its newfound room for maneuver to follow its own preferences in the face of other eu members .
so the answer today to henry kissinger ’ s famous question about whom he should call when he wants to speak to europe , is not necessarily “ the german chancellor . ”
moreover , germany , it seems , is becoming a “ geo- economic power ” driven by the needs of its export sector .
by using economic means to pursue its foreign-policy ends , germany is gradually turning its back on its european partners .
meanwhile , as france experiences a loss of power relative to germany on economic issues , it continues to play a decisive role in foreign policy .
france led the libya operation , and is doing much the same with attempts to impose stronger sanctions against iran and provide support for the united nations in côte d ’ ivoire .
but france ’ s unilateral approach often antagon izes its european partners .
for example , french president nicolas sarkozy preemp ted a common european position on the palestinian statehood bid at the un in september .
in other words , even when france leads , it does not always do so in a constructive way .
apart from the decisive role that it played in libya alongside france , britain is becoming increasingly marginal in european foreign policymaking .
even before it veto ed a plan by eurozone countries to create a “ fiscal union ” at the european summit in december 2011 , it was playing less of a leadership role than it traditionally has on key european foreign-policy issues .
britain has continued to support eu enlargement , closer links with turkey , and development in africa , but it has not launched any creative initiatives to bring other member states along or change the terms of the eu debate .
on other issues , such as engaging “ strategic partners ” – china and russia in particular – the united kingdom is often a follow er as well .
as the “ big three ” increasingly pursue their own narrowly defined national interests , however , other eu member states are emerging as leaders in key foreign-policy fields .
for example , sweden – the 14 th largest member state in terms of population , and eighth in terms of gdp – under the leadership of prime minister fre drik re inf el d t and foreign minister carl bil d t pun ches considerably above its weight .
last year , it increased annual aid to north africa by se k 100 million ( € 1 1.1 million ) , proposed an eu mission to tunisia just a week after the revolution to support democratic aspirations there , and was an early and strong back er of un resolutions in support of the uprising in libya .
poland , too , is emerging as a foreign-policy leader .
prime minister donald tusk and foreign minister rad ek si kor ski have particularly taken the initiative on the eu ’ s strategy towards russia , where poland has largely overcome its differences with germany and is now at the forefront of efforts to develop a genuinely comprehensive approach .
poland has also led on european defense ( though it declined to take part in the military intervention in libya ) .
this reflects the strength of the polish economy , which is expected to grow by more than 3 % in 2012 – faster than almost anywhere else in the eu .
germany might be getting all of the attention in this time of crisis , but the last year has been a reminder that europe is most effective and influential when the small countries get involved and join forces with – and even lead – the big ones .
for example , on iran ( with exceptions like greece ) , europeans have united around a clear policy and collective positions , such as an oil embargo .
so , poland and sweden : europe needs your leadership .
but that might not be enough in an eu with more than 500 million citizens .
other eu states need to follow their example in order to make european foreign policy truly effective and influential .
a german glim mer in a global boom
in 2004 , the world economy grew at a rate of 5.1 % , the fastest pace in the last 28 years .
while if o ` s world economic climate indicator , generated from quarterly surveys of 1, 200 experts in 90 countries , worsened slightly during the first three quarters of 2005 , it rose again in the last quarter , indicating a continuation of the boom .
in 2005 , growth is estimated to have been about 4.3 % , and a similar rate can be expected in 2006 , marking a period of sustained rapid global growth un seen since the 1970 ’ s .
but the boom is not uniform .
in the united states , the number of experts giving a favorable assessment of the current situation declined ; indeed , a majority believes that the economic situation will worsen during the next six months .
the same is true for eastern europe , the ex- soviet states , and latin america .
the big surprise is europe , which , unlike in 2004 and the first half of 2005 , now seems to be catching up with the rest of the world .
whereas growth was a miserable 1.5 % in 2005 in the 15 “ old ” members of the european union , if o expects eu-15 growth to accelerate to 2.1 % in 2006 .
to be sure , economic performance will vary widely among eu countries .
while italy will be the lagg ard , with only 1.1 % growth , the irish rocket will not lose its force , pushing real gdp up by about 4.8 % .
in general , the big eu countries are still performing badly , in contrast to the smaller members – hardly surprising , given that the eu is basically an institution to help the smaller countries overcome the draw back of their size by extending the agg l omer ation advantages that formerly were reserved to the bigger countries .
but even germany , europe ’ s biggest economy , is experiencing an upswing .
the if o climate indicator for germany , based on monthly surveys of 7,000 firms , jumped up wards in the second half of 2005 , reaching its highest value since the boom year 2000 , with businesses ’ assessment of the current situation and expectations improving .
after five years of stagnation , the economy is finally on the move .
the driving force is external demand , as germany , the world ’ s second-largest exporter , profits from the global boom .
exports increased by 6. 2 % in 2005 and are expected to increase by 7. 4 % in 2006 .
however , as we saw in 2004 and 2005 , exports are not enough to create substantial growth if domestic demand does not follow .
the good news for germany is that investment demand is now growing , too .
while the second half of 2005 was already quite good , if o expects investment in equipment to grow by a healthy 6 % in 2006 .
after many years of contraction , investment in construction also will rise slightly .
total investment growth is expected to reach 2.9 % – weak by past standards , but nonetheless a promising sal ve for the wounded german mood .
moreover , any investment growth is vital for germany , which , according to the latest oecd statistics , currently suffers from the world ’ s lowest share of net investment in national income .
even if germany remains the world ’ s lagg ard , rising investment demand as such will contribute to gdp growth , which if o estimates at 1.7 % in 2006 .
that number looks small compared to most other countries .
in fact , all eu countries except italy and the netherlands will grow faster .
but everything is relative : germany ’ s trend growth rate is just 1.1 % , and the country has been the slow est growing eu country since 1995 .
measured against a disappointing past , even germany is currently experiencing an economic boom .
indeed , even german unemployment , which has been rising in cycles since 1970 , will decline slightly in 2006 , from 4.8 to 4.7 million .
the good economic data will reinforce initial favorable impres sions of angela merkel ’ s new government , which got off to an excellent start at the eu summit , where merkel helped to broker a compromise between britain and france on the union ’ s 2007- 2013 budget ( by adding another € 2 billion to germany ’ s annual contribution ) .
in fact , the government may even have contributed a bit to the good economic data by announcing a serious effort to consolidate germany ’ s own public finances – a prerequisite for investor confidence .
according to the government , substantial tax increases will bring the fiscal deficit below the 3 % -of-gdp limit set by the stability and growth pact – a target missed for five consecutive years – by 2007 .
the real test for the german government is the labor market .
most observers now agree that germany needs something like the american ear ne d- income tax credit .
in germany , it ’ s called “ activ ating social aid ” or “ comb i wages , ” but the principle is the same : the state should reduce the money it pays for doing nothing and pay more for participating in the work force .
merkel announced in her inaugural speech in the bundestag that her government will introduce such a system in 2006 .
if this is more than lip service , and if she really carries out a serious reform of the german welfare state ’ s incentive structure , the result could be higher employment and structural economic growth .
in the long term , that would be more promising for the eu – and for the global economy – than the demand- driven performance that germany is currently enjoying .
is pension er populism here to stay ?
milan – the right-wing populism that has emerged in many western democracies in recent years could turn out to be much more than a b lip on the political landscape .
beyond the great recession and the migration crisis , both of which created fertile ground for populist parties , the aging of the west ’ s population will continue to alter political power dynamics in populists ’ favor .
it turns out that older voters are rather sympathetic to nationalist movements .
older britons voted disproportionately in favor of leaving the european union , and older americans delivered the us presidency to donald trump .
neither the law and justice ( pis ) party in poland nor fid es z in hungary would be in power without the enthusiastic support of the elderly .
and in italy , the league has succeeded in large part by exploiting the discontent of northern italy ’ s seni ors .
among today ’ s populists , only marine le pen of france ’ s national rally ( formerly the national front ) – and possibly j air bol s on ar o in brazil – relies on younger voters .
next spring , this age- driven voting pattern could drive the outcome of the european parliament election .
according to recent studies , older europeans – especially those with less education – are more suspicious of the european project and less tru sting of the european parliament than younger europeans are .
this is surprising , given that memories of world war ii and its legacy should be fresh er for older generations .
nevertheless , their skepticism toward democratic eu institutions may explain their rec ep tiveness to authoritarian leaders .
most likely , a growing sense of insecurity is pushing the elderly into the populists ’ arms .
leaving aside country- specific peculi arities , nationalist parties all promise to stem global forces that will affect older people disproportionately .
for example , immigration tends to in still more fear in older voters , because they are usually more attached to traditional values and self- contained communities .
likewise , globalization and technological progress often disrupt traditional or legacy industries , where older workers are more likely to be employed .
the rise of the digital economy , dominated by people in their twenti es and thir ties , is also pushing older workers to the margins .
but , unlike in the past , crumbling pension systems can no longer absorb such labor-market shocks . the result is that older workers who lose their job are condemned to long-term unemployment .
moreover , pensioners now have reason to worry about threats to their retirement benefits from their own children .
young people , frustrated with socioeconomic systems that are clearly tilted in favor of retirees , are increasingly calling for fairer intergenerational redistribution of scarce resources .
for example , italy ’ s five star movement , which governs in a coalition with the league , recently called for a “ citizen ’ s income ” that would be available to all unemployed people regardless of age .
so , while right-wing populists have attracted older voters , left-wing populist have gained a following among younger generations .
by backing right-wing populists , older voters hope to return to a time when domestic affairs were insulated from global forces and national borders were less por ous .
at the heart of today ’ s nationalist politics is a promise to preserve the status quo – or even to restore a myth ical past .
hence , nationalist politicians often resort to nostalgic rhetoric to mobilize their older supporters .
for his part , trump has pledged to bring back jobs in the american rust belt , once the center of us manufacturing .
and his crackdown on illegal immigration and ban on travelers from predominantly muslim countries signals his commitment to a “ pure ” american nation .
similarly , in continental europe , right-wing populists want to return to a time before the adoption of the euro and the schengen system of pass port - free travel within most of the eu .
and they often appeal directly to older voters by promising to lower the retirement age and expand pension benefits ( both are flag ship policies of the league ) .
in the united kingdom , the “ leave ” campaign promised v indication for those who have been left behind in the age of globalization .
never mind that it also touted the idea of a free and independent “ global britain . ”
the brexiteers are not known for their consistency .
at any rate , to the extent that today ’ s populist wave is driven by demographics , it is not likely to c rest anytime soon .
in gra ying societies , the political clout of the elderly will steadily grow ; and in rapidly changing economies , their ability to adapt will decline .
as a result , older voters will demand more and more socioeconomic security , and irresponsible populists will be waiting in the wings to accommodate them .
can anything be done ?
to stem the nationalist tide , mainstream parties urgently need to devise a new social compact that addresses the mounting sense of insecurity among older voters .
they will need to strike a better balance between openness and protection , innovation and regulation ; and they will need to do so without falling into a regressive populist trap .
the answer is not to suff oc ate global forces , but to render them more tolerable .
citizens of all ages need to be equipped to face current and future disruptions .
in this sense , it is better to empower the elderly than simply to protect them . most advanced economies simply can not afford massive new benefits for an over sized interest group .
and besides , a policy that makes people reliant on some form of external support is morally questionable , at best .
instead , governments should focus on upgrading older workers ’ skills , creating more opportunities for older and younger generations to work together , and holding disrup tors accountable for the socioeconomic consequences they generate .
subsidies to the most vulnerable should remain a last resort .
in many ways , older voters ’ inf at uation with populists is a cry for help .
it is up to enlightened politicians to respond to it construc tively .
a global agenda for seven billion
new york – late next month , a child will be born – the 7 th billion citizen of planet earth . we will never know the circumstances into which he or she was born .
we do know that the baby will enter a world of vast and unpredictable change – environmental , economic , geopolitical , technological , and demographic .
the world ’ s population has tripled since the united nations was created in 1945 .
and our numbers keep growing , with corresponding pressures on land , energy , food , and water . the global economy is generating pressures as well : rising joblessness , widening social inequalities , and the emergence of new economic powers .
these trends link the fate and future of today ’ s seven billion people as never before . no nation alone can solve the great global challenges of the twenty-first century . international cooperation is a universal need .
the 6 6 th session of the un general assembly is a renewed opportunity for the countries of the world to set aside narrow , short-term interests and commit to cooperative efforts to address humanity ’ s long-term imperatives .
at a time when all nations are experiencing individual challenges , we need to forge a worldwide common agenda that can help to ensure that the seven billion th baby and future generations grow up in a world characterized by sustainable peace , prosperity , freedom , and justice .
to help create this future , i am focusing my second term as secretary-general on five global imperatives – five generational opportunities to shape the world of tomorrow by the decisions we make today .
in the next five years , we need to create a new economic vision for sustainable development and forge global consensus on a binding climate change agreement .
fostering economic growth , realizing the millennium development goals , and combating climate change will all depend on creating a new energy system for the twenty-first century and extending it to every person on the planet .
prevention as a framework for international cooperation is a second opportunity .
this year , the un peacekeeping budget will total $ 8 billion . think of what we could save by avoiding conflicts – by deploying political mediation missions , for example , rather than troops .
we know how to do this .
our record proves it – in guinea , kenya , and kyrgyzstan .
a third imperative is building a safer and more secure world . in this effort , we must be courageous in standing up for democracy , human rights , and peace .
this year was one of signature achievements in restoring and securing peace – in côte d ’ ivoire , darfur , egypt , and elsewhere . but hatred and bloodshed still stand in the way of our vision for peace .
in the middle east , we must break the stalemate .
palestinians deserve a state .
israel needs security .
both want peace . a negotiated settlement can produce these outcomes , and the un is a platform for forging such a peace .
so , too , will we continue our efforts to foster democratic governance in iraq , afghanistan , the democratic republic of congo , and sierra leone . and , in the name of all of humanity , we will continue to push forward on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation , in service of realizing a world free of nuclear weapons .
the fourth big opportunity is supporting countries in transition .
this year ’ s dramatic events in north africa and the middle east inspired people around the globe .
let us help make the arab spring a true season of hope for all .
in libya , we are deploying a new un support mission to assist the country ’ s transitional authorities in establishing a new government and legal order , consistent with the aspirations of the libyan people .
syria is a special concern .
for six months we have seen escalating violence and repression .
the government has repeatedly pledged to undertake reforms and listen to its people . it has not done so .
the moment to act is now .
the violence must stop .
last but not least is the imperative of working with and for women and young people .
women hold up more than half the sky and represent much of the world ’ s un realized potential .
we need their full engagement – in government , business , and civil society .
the un has placed a high priority on promoting women at all levels of the organization and this year , for the first time , un women is operating to promote the interests and rights of women all over the world .
seven billion people now look toward the united nations for solutions to the world ’ s great global challenges .
they hold different religions and backgrounds but common dreams and aspirations .
our global future depends on bringing these individual talents and universal rights together in common cause .
a global consensus against terrorism
mention the united nations and the first reaction is likely to be the ongoing oil- for- food scandal and what it will mean for secretary-general kofi annan ’ s ability to lead the organization for the remaining year and a half of his tenure .
but there is much more going on at the un than investigations .
reform is in the air – in part because of the scandal , but also because of the un ’ s inability to deal effectively with challenges ranging from rwanda and kosovo to iraq and , most recently , sudan .
even the un ’ s most ard ent supporters now recognize that change is called for if the organization is to make a significant contribution to international peace and security .
some of the reform talk concerns the un security council ’ s composition .
the security council represents what the world war ii allies believed the post-war world would look like and how it should be run .
this helps to explain why a much- weakened france was made a permanent member of the council – and why germany and japan ( and a not- yet independent india ) were not .
defending the security council ’ s current ma ke-up is impossible ; the need for change is beyond debate .
but coming up with an approach that gains broad international support will prove extremely difficult .
great britain and france will resist being replaced by a single eu seat , while making germany a permanent member would only exacerbate the problem of europe ’ s relative over- representation .
pakistan would object to adding india to the security council ; argentina , chile , and mexico to adding brazil ; nigeria to south africa ( and vice- versa ) ; and several countries , including china , indonesia , and south korea , might resist creating a permanent seat for japan .
clearly , fixing the security council will require considerable time and political effort .
in the meantime , there is important work to be done . one productive aven ue would be to follow up on one of the recommendations of the high level panel that was endorsed by annan ; namely , that all un members go on record declaring that terrorism has no place in today ’ s world .
this will prove more difficult than it first sounds .
for too long , the international community has tolerated terrorism – the intenti onal killing of civilians and non combatants by non-state actors for political purposes – on the grounds that , on occasion , “ one man ’ s terrorist is another man ’ s freedom fighter . ”
historians have the luxury of debating whether terrorism may have been justified in certain situations in the past .
we do not .
modern terrorism is too destructive to be tolerated , much less supported .
weapons of mass destruction – nuclear , biological , and chemical weapons – are just that , and no cause can excuse their use .
moreover , as the terrorist attacks on america of 2001 showed , weapons as basic as box - cut ters can become weapons of mass destruction if they are used to exploit the vulnerabilities of modern , global life .
terrorism is even less justified given that political avenues exist nowadays for pursuing political aims .
palestinians can negotiate their future relationship with israel and can count on american , russian , european , and un assistance .
iraqis have elected their own representatives and are poised to write their constitution .
no one pursuing reasonable goals and who is prepared to compromise can argue that terrorism is his or his group ’ s only option .
the world has already taken some important steps against terrorism .
a dozen international conventions and numerous un resolutions commit governments to oppose hostage taking , the hij acking of civilian aircraft , and terrorism more broadly .
similarly , the mandate of the financial action task force , created in 1989 to curb money laundering , has grown and become focused mainly on curbing terrorist financing .
un security council resolution 13 73 , passed after the september 11 attacks , calls on states to deny safe haven to terrorists , bring to justice anyone associated with terrorism , suppress recruitment by terrorist groups , block terrorists ’ efforts to acquire weapons , and cooperate with other governments and international organizations in tracking suspects and boosting security .
broad agreement is needed that any intenti onal killing of civilians and non combatants is unacceptable , and that its perpetrators and supporters must be punished .
of course , such a convention will not prevent all future acts of terrorism .
but ideas matter .
terrorism needs to be de- legitimized in the way that slavery has been .
doing so will make governments and individuals think twice before becoming a party to terrorism ; it should also make it less difficult to gar ner support for international action against those who nevertheless carry it out .
we are taught early on in our lives that the end can not justify the means .
it is time to put this principle into effect before many more innocent lives are lost .
a global green new deal
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies clim bing , and stock markets in free- fall , it may at first glance seem sensible to dit ch the fight against climate change and put environmental investments on hold .
but this would be a devastating mistake of immediate , as well as inter- generational , proportions .
far from burden ing an already over- stressed , over- stretched global economy , environmental investments are exactly what is needed to get people back to work , get order books flowing , and assist in powering economies back to health .
in the past , concern for the environment was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – a point gras ped by some , but by no means all , economic architects yet .
a big sl ice of president barack obama ’ s $ 8 25 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a boost to renewable energy , “ wea ther izing ” a million homes , and upgrading the country ’ s inefficient electricity grid .
such investments could generate an estimated five million “ green- collar ” jobs , provide a shot in the arm for the construction and engineering industries , and get america back into the equally serious business of combating climate change and achieving energy security .
the republic of korea , which is losing jobs for the first time in more than five years , has also spot ted the green lining to grim economic times .
president lee my ung- b ak ’ s government plans to invest $ 38 billion employing people to clean up four major rivers and reduce disaster risks by building em bank ments and water- treatment facilities .
other elements of lee ’ s plan include construction of ec o- friendly transportation networks , such as high-speed railways and hundreds of kilometers of bic ycle tracks , and generating energy using waste methane from land fills .
the package also counts on investments in hybrid vehicle technologies .
similar pro- employment “ green new deal ” packages have been lined up in china , japan , and the united kingdom .
they are equally relevant to developing economies in terms of jobs , fighting poverty , and creating new opportunities at a time of increasingly uncertain commodity prices and exports .
in south africa , the government- backed working for water initiative – which employs more than 30,000 people , including women , youth , and the disabled – also sees opportunity in crisis .
the country spends roughly $ 60 million annually fighting invasive alien plants that threaten native wildlife , water supplies , important tourism destinations , and farmland .
this work is set to expand as more than 40 million tons of invasive alien plants are harv ested for power- station fuel .
as a result , an estimated 500 mega wat ts of electricity , equal to 2 % of the country ’ s electricity needs , will be generated , along with more than 5,000 jobs .
so it is clear that some countries now view environmental investments in infrastructure , energy systems , and ecosystems as among the best bets for recovery .
others may be unsure about the potential returns from investing in ecosystem services such as forest carbon storage or in renewable energy for the 80 % of africans who have no access to electricity .
still others may simply be unaware of how to precisely follow suit .
in early february , the united nations environment program will convene some of the world ’ s leading economists at the un ’ s headquarters in new york .
a strategy for a global green new deal , tailored to different national challenges , will be fl es hed out in order to assist world leaders and ministers craft stimulus packages that work on multiple fronts .
spent wisely , however , these stimulus packages could trigger far-reaching and transformational trends , setting the stage for a more sustainable , urgently needed green economy for the twenty-first century .
the trillions of dollars that have been mobilized to address current woes , together with the trillions of investors ’ dollars waiting in the wings , represent an opportunity that was unthinkable only 12 months ago : the chance to steer a more resource- efficient and intelligent course that can address problems ranging from climate change and natural-resource scarcity to water shortages and biodiversity loss .
blin dly pumping the current bail - out billions into old industries and exhausted economic models will be throwing good money after bad while mortg aging our children ’ s future .
instead , political leaders must use these wind falls to invest in innovation , promote sustainable businesses , and encourage new patterns of decent , long-lasting employment .
a global growth bargain
london – us president barack obama caught the imagination of the world when he talked recently of a new “ sputnik moment . ”
he outlined a bold plan for improving education , infrastructure , and technology , and viv idly compared the resolve required to put a man on the moon to the determination needed to restore growth to the us economy .
obama is right to say that the west faces not only great challenges , but also great opportunities . in the last decade , the global economy was transformed by one billion asian workers entering the ranks of industrial producers . in 2011 , for the first time in two centuries , europe and america face being out- produced , out- exported , and out- invested by china and the rest of the world .
yet asia ’ s growth also gives the west unprecedented economic hope .
in this decade , the world will be transformed yet again by the rise of the asian consumer . by 2020 , asia ’ s domestic markets will be twice the size of america ’ s .
the world ’ s middle class will have swel led from one billion consumers to three billion .
the opportunities for growth in europe and the us from this additional global demand are enormous .
the countries and companies that will flourish in asia ’ s new markets will be those that can provide the technology-driven , custom - built , high value-added goods and services needed to serve asia ’ s two billion consumers .
but neither europe nor the us is in a strong enough position to take best advantage of these new markets .
the west must again begin to out- invent , out- innovate , and out- skill the rest of the world if it is to seize the opportunities that asia presents . indeed , unless the west significantly expands its capital investment in engineering , science , and new technologies , it will be marginalized by countries whose governments back their innovators with hard cash .
obama ’ s investment plan could be the foundation stone for a formal global agreement that delivers higher levels of growth to all corners of the world and creates millions of new jobs .
under such an agreement , europe would join the us in raising levels of investment – complem enting america ’ s “ mo on shot ” initiative with a program of structural reform aimed at building a digital , green , energy-efficient , and competitive economy – while china would play its part by increasing its consumption .
i believe that such an agreement could boost the world economy by around 3 % by 2014 – and lift 100 million people out of poverty .
i presented this plan when i chaired the g-20 in london in 2009 .
i wanted east and west to commit to a formal strategy to deliver more enduring results than those promised by the rescue packages that we were putting together at the time .
our attention was focused on preventing recession from turning into depression .
i argued that this was also the moment to pioneer a more lasting framework of growth .
in the end , no agreement was possible on a shared growth objective , and there has not yet been enough political will for the coordinated action to achieve it .
since then , europe and america have grown well below their capacity ( despite huge un met demand throughout the world ) and unemployment has climbed to around 10 % on both continents ( with youth unemployment reaching an alarming 20 % ) .
the global growth agreement that ev aded us in 2009 remains the unfinished work of the g-20 .
front-loaded public investment could be funded through an enhanced european investment bank .
china has already laid the foundation for playing its part : its policy of xia ok ang ( reducing poverty and expanding the middle class ) should create a market for billions of dollars of western goods and services .
the west should propose that if china ’ s consumption increases by 2- 4 percentage points of its gdp over the next three years ( entirely possible as it improves its social safety net , cuts taxes , and puts home ownership within reach of ordinary citizens ) , america and europe will expand their public investment by similar amounts .
if other asian countries do likewise , and agree to create a level playing field for exporters , we could create around 50 million additional jobs .
indeed , critics argue that raising public investment conflicts with the drive to reduce deficits , and warn of higher interest rates on the back of further spending .
but critics are wrong about the impact on the deficit of focused investment .
a recent study by the international monetary fund produced unequivocal evidence that we can actually maintain deficit- reduction plans while benefiting from the additional capital investment that the us and european economies need .
my extrapol ation of the imf model shows that western countries can boost their long-term gdp growth significantly by increasing their levels of capital investment over a three-year period .
an annual stimulus equivalent to just 0.3 % of gdp yields a return in the us of 0.8 % in economic growth at its peak in 2013 , and 0.4 % in europe .
this approach , which sec ures growth and cuts unemployment without raising the deficit , is needed to energ ize the private sector and mobilize some of the capital that has accumulated on corporate balance sheets in recent years .
it also underscores the importance of the g-20 and the imf in seeking global consensus now .
the west is well placed to play its part in global renewal .
its extraordinary workforces produce world-class goods and services .
but the west ’ s workforce must not be condemned to policies that will fully produce a decade of slow growth and low employment .
that would be a human tragedy , not just an economic disaster .
a global perfect storm
new york – dark , lowering financial and economic clouds are , it seems , rolling in from every direction : the eurozone , the united states , china , and elsewhere .
indeed , the global economy in 2013 could be a very difficult environment in which to find shelter .
for starters , the eurozone crisis is worsening , as the euro remains too strong , front-loaded fiscal austerity deepens recession in many member countries , and a credit crunch in the periphery and high oil prices undermine prospects of recovery .
the eurozone banking system is becoming balk an ized , as cross-border and interbank credit lines are cut off , and capital flight could turn into a full run on periphery banks if , as is likely , greece stages a disorderly euro exit in the next few months .
moreover , fiscal and sovereign-debt strains are becoming worse as interest-rate spreads for spain and italy have returned to their unsustainable peak levels .
indeed , the eurozone may require not just an international bailout of banks ( as recently in spain ) , but also a full sovereign bailout at a time when eurozone and international fire walls are insufficient to the task of back stopping both spain and italy . as a result , disorderly breakup of the eurozone remains possible .
farther to the west , us economic performance is weakening , with first- quarter growth a mis erly 1.9 % – well below potential .
and job creation f altered in april and may , so the us may reach stall speed by year end .
worse , the risk of a double-dip recession next year is rising : even if what looks like a looming us fiscal cliff turns out to be only a smaller source of drag , the likely increase in some taxes and reduction of some transfer payments will reduce growth in disposable income and consumption .
moreover , political gridlock over fiscal adjustment is likely to persist , regardless of whether barack obama or mitt romney wins november ’ s presidential election .
thus , new fights on the debt ceiling , risks of a government shutdown , and rating down grades could further depress consumer and business confidence , reducing spending and accelerating a flight to safety that would exacerbate the fall in stock markets .
in the east , china , its growth model unsustainable , could be underwater by 2013 , as its investment bust continues and reforms intended to boost consumption are too little too late .
a new chinese leadership must accelerate structural reforms to reduce national savings and increase consumption ’ s share of gdp ; but divisions within the leadership about the pace of reform , together with the likelihood of a bumpy political transition , suggest that reform will occur at a pace that simply is not fast enough .
the economic slowdown in the us , the eurozone , and china already implies a massive drag on growth in other emerging markets , owing to their trade and financial links with the us and the european union ( that is , no “ decoupling ” has occurred ) .
at the same time , the lack of structural reforms in emerging markets , together with their move towards greater state capitalism , is hampering growth and will reduce their resili ency .
finally , long- simmering tensions in the middle east between israel and the us on one side and iran on the other on the issue of nuclear proliferation could reach a boil by 2013 .
the current negotiations are likely to fail , and even tightened sanctions may not stop iran from trying to build nuclear weapons .
these risks are already exacerbating the economic slowdown : equity markets are falling everywhere , leading to negative wealth effects on consumption and capital spending .
borrowing costs are rising for highly indebted sovereigns , credit rationing is undermining small and medium-size companies , and falling commodity prices are reducing exporting countries ’ income .
increasing risk aversion is leading economic agents to adopt a wa it- and- see stance that makes the slowdown partly self-fulfilling .
compared to 2008-2009 , when policymakers had ample space to act , monetary and fiscal authorities are running out of policy bullets ( or , more cyn ically , policy rabb its to pull out of their h ats ) .
monetary policy is constrained by the proximity to zero interest rates and repeated rounds of quantitative easing .
indeed , economies and markets no longer face liquidity problems , but rather credit and insolvency crises .
meanwhile , unsustainable budget deficits and public debt in most advanced economies have severely limited the scope for further fiscal stimulus .
using exchange rates to boost net exports is a zero-sum game at a time when private and public deleveraging is suppressing domestic demand in countries that are running current-account deficits and structural issues are having the same effect in surplus countries .
after all , a weaker currency and better trade balance in some countries necessarily implies a stronger currency and a weaker trade balance in others .
meanwhile , the ability to backstop , ring- fence , and bail out banks and other financial institutions is constrained by politics and near- insolvent sovereigns ’ inability to absorb additional losses from their banking systems .
as a result , sovereign risk is now becoming banking risk .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheet , especially in the eurozone .
to prevent a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’ s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’ s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) should be implemented . in addition , a full banking union , starting with eurozone- wide deposit insurance , should be initiated , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone .
unfortunately , germany re sists all of these key policy measures , as it is fixated on the credit risk to which its taxpayers would be exposed with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration .
as a result , the probability of a eurozone disaster is rising .
and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only one threatening the global economy .
batt en down the hat ches .
a global solutions network
new york – great social change occurs in several ways .
a technological breakthrough – the steam engine , computers , the internet – may play a leading role .
vision aries , such as mah at ma gandhi , martin luther king jr. , and nelson mandela , may inspire a demand for justice .
political leaders may lead a broad reform movement , as with franklin roosevelt and the new deal .
our own generation urgently needs to spur another era of great social change .
this time , we must act to save the planet from a human-induced environmental catastrophe .
each of us senses this challenge almost daily .
heat waves , droughts , floods , forest fires , re treating glaciers , polluted rivers , and extreme storms buff et the planet at a dramatically rising rate , owing to human activities .
our $ 7 0- tril lion- per -year global economy is putting unprecedented pressures on the natural environment .
we will need new technologies , behaviors , and ethics , supported by solid evidence , to reconcile further economic development with environmental sustainability .
united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon is taking on this unprecedented challenge from his unique position at the crossroads of global politics and society .
at the level of global society , the un represents the world ’ s citizen ry , “ we the peoples , ” as it says in the un charter . at the societal level , the un is about the rights and responsibilities of all of us , including future generations .
in the past two decades , governments have come up short on solutions to environmental threats .
politicians have failed to implement properly the treaties adopted at the 1992 earth summit .
ban knows that strong government action remains vital , but he also recognizes that civil society must also play a larger role , especially because too many governments and politicians are beholden to vested interests , and too few politicians think in time horizons that extend past the next election .
to empower global society to act , ban has launched a bold new global initiative , for which i am grateful to volunte er .
the un sustainable development solutions network is a powerful effort to mobilize global knowledge to save the planet .
the idea is to use global networks of knowledge and action to identify and demonstrate new , cutting-edge approaches to sustainable development around the world .
the network will work alongside and support governments , un agencies , civil-society organizations , and the private sector .
humanity needs to learn new ways to produce and use low-carbon energy , grow food sustainably , build liv able cities , and manage the global commons of oceans , biodiversity , and the atmosphere .
but time is running very short .
today ’ s mega- cities , for example , already have to confront dangerous heat waves , rising sea levels , more extreme storms , dire congestion , and air and water pollution .
agricultural regions already need to become more resilient in the face of increased climate volatility .
and as one region in one part of the world designs a better way to manage its transport , energy needs , water supplies , or food supplies , those successes should quickly become part of the global knowledge base , enabling other regions to benefit rapidly as well .
universities have a special role to play in the new un knowledge network .
exactly 150 years ago , in 18 62 , abraham lincoln created america ’ s “ land- grant ” universities to help local communities to improve farming and the quality of life through science .
today , we need universities in all parts of the world to help their societies face the challenges of poverty reduction , clean energy , sustainable food supplies , and the rest .
by linking together , and putting their curricula online , the world ’ s universities can become even more effective in discovering and promoting sci ence-based solutions to complex problems .
the world ’ s corporate sector also has a significant role to play in sustainable development .
now the corporate sector has two faces .
it is the re pos itory of cutting-edge sustainable technologies , pioneering research and development , world-class management , and leadership in environmental sustainability .
yet at the same time , the corporate sector lobbies aggressively to gut environmental regulations , slash corporate-tax rates , and avoid their own responsibility for ecological destruction .
sometimes the same company operates on both sides of the divide .
we urgently need far- sighted companies to join the sustainable development solutions network .
these companies are uniquely placed to move new ideas and technologies into early-stage demonstration projects , thereby accelerating global learning cycles .
equally important , we need a critical mass of respected corporate leaders to press their peers to cease the anti- environmental lobbying and campaign - finance practices that account for the inaction of governments .
sustainable development is a generational challenge , not a short-term task .
the reinv ention of energy , food , transport , and other systems will take decades , not years .
but the long-term nature of this challenge must not l ull us into inaction .
we must start reinv enting our productive systems now , precisely because the path of change will be so long and the environmental dangers are already so pressing .
in the post-2015 era , the fight against poverty and the fight to protect the environment will go hand in hand , reinforcing each other .
secretary-general ban ki-moon has already initiated several global processes to help establish the new post-2015 goals in an open , particip atory , and knowledge-based way .
the secretary general ’ s launch of the sustainable development solutions network is therefore especially timely .
not only will the world adopt a new set of goals to achieve sustainable development , but it will also have a new global network of expertise to help achieve those vital objectives .
a good rate hike for europe
two wrong s don ’ t make a right .
just because european governments have failed to put bread on their constituents ’ tables doesn ’ t mean that the european central bank should likewise fail in its job of promoting price stability in the euro zone .
that may sound obvious , but abandoning price stability is exactly what some european politicians are advocating .
for example , italian politicians , who , given italy ’ s recent dismal economic performance , would seem the least qualified to offer the ecb advice on monetary policy , are nonetheless advocating interest-rate cuts .
echo ing comments by italian prime minister silvio berlusconi , deputy economics minister mario bal d ass arr i said in il sole 24 ore last week that all efforts to boost growth are in vain “ if someone is pushing on the brake ped al . ”
who ’ s he kid ding ?
if anyone is “ pushing down on the italian growth brake ” it is berlusconi himself .
he has made no efforts at economic reform during his term and now seeks to blame the ecb for italy ’ s l ame economic performance .
but it is precisely the lack of economic reform at home that has made italy one of the least competitive states in the euro-zone economy .
more than the usual “ blame game ” is at work here .
pressures are mounting on the ecb to raise interest rates – and berlusconi and co . ’ s attacks are as much as an attempt to forest all future rate hikes as to get the ecb to loosen its monetary policy .
soaring energy prices , for example , have become a leading inflation risk .
but higher energy prices , by themselves , will not cause the ecb to pull the interest-rate trigger .
the key will be so-called “ second- round effects ” – whether growing crude prices lead to higher wage demands from trade unions .
so far , the “ social partners , ” as ecb president jean-claude trichet likes to call the unions , have been quiet .
should this change , the ecb will have to raise rates even if europe ’ s economic growth remains slack .
the good news is that economic growth in the euro-zone economy appears to be picking up ( even in italy ) .
though second- quarter gdp growth was weak — the euro-zone average was only 0.3 % year on year – third- quarter data are indicating a sustained economic pick -up in the second half of the year . only consumption is lagging .
how will the ecb react to better economic news ?
some on the governing council have grown uncomfortable that euro-zone interest rates have stayed so low , at 2 % , for so long ( more than two years ) .
true , there is no inflation problem in the short run , but the ecb ’ s monetary policy focuses on the medium term .
one particular worry is that euro-zone money supply is well above the ecb ’ s benchmark level , indicating an excess supply of liquidity .
it is doubtful that the ecb would raise interest rates to curb excess liquidity so long as economic recovery remains in question .
slow growth has silenced the monetar ists on the ecb ’ s governing council . this will change , however , once the economic pick -up is confirmed .
meanwhile , in germany , the elections this september may have surprising consequences for ecb monetary policy .
angela merkel , the christian democrats ’ candidate , is a reformer , holding out hope for germany ’ s future – and that of europe .
unfortunately , merkel ’ s campaign is off to a roc ky start , and the recent entry of os k ar l af on ta ine ’ s extreme left-wing party into the fray may necess itate the formation of a grand coalition between the christian democrats and the social democrats .
this would be bad news for the german economy , which could delay possible ecb interest rate hikes .
because the expected gridlock in parliament would make reforms less likely , companies might hold off on investment , while consumers would be more likely to keep their wal lets closed , because official policy would be even less clear than it is now .
on the other hand , a center-right coalition between the christian democrats and the free democrats could spark the ecb into action .
this raises an interesting point .
the public should be relieved if the ecb raises rates , because this would most likely signal that the long-awaited economic recovery is well under way , and that inflationary repercussions are being addressed .
a hike , in other words , would indicate that good things are happening .
but the public often views interest-rate increases as negative events that increase unemployment and stifle growth .
bl am e- game politicians like berlusconi , who have failed to put bread on the table , their min ions in the media , and keynesian economic professors who don ’ t understand and mis represent keynes sustain this distorted view .
europe would be a lot better off if someone told the public the truth .
a good year for god
london – it ’ s been a better year for god .
after with ering literary assaults on the al mighty from the oxford academic richard daw kins , the ess ay ist christ opher hit ch ens , and others , believers have hit back .
best of all has been the case for god by the brilliant religion writer kar en arm strong .
more important still is the news that more people ( certainly in britain ) are going to christian churches of all denom inations .
moreover , the pope made a very successful visit to britain in september .
we know already about heavy attendance at the country ’ s mosques .
at this time of year , of course , many christians who are not regular chur ch go ers attend the nati vity services .
car ols , church bel ls , and man gers are still at the heart of mid- winter festiv ities , alongside the consumer binge .
this year , however , the “ big spend ” in europe may have been inhib ited by the big winter freeze and the big austerity programs across most of the continent .
even in the most go dless households , most children in western societies probably know the details of the christmas story .
the travelers who can find no room at the in n .
the birth of a baby in the st ables .
the arrival of the wise men bearing gifts of gold , fran kin cen se , and my r r h .
we learn about all this at the same time as we are told about father christmas , his lap land re inde ers , and his s acks full of presents .
we rapidly lose our belief in that winter myth .
but we tend to retain into adulthood the same views of god that we formed in childhood .
it is this god that athe ists like daw kins and hit ch ens attack .
and , with such a target , it is not very difficult to po ke holes and pile on the ridic ule .
leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against go d lessness – remember the atrocities of athe ist total itar ians in the twentieth century – and consider the assault on those whose commitment to lit eral interpretations of religious texts means that they deny science and reason .
to them the world was made in six days ; evolution is a fanciful tale .
those of us who think that science and religion d well in different domains , and who recall that so crates argued that science did not teach you about morality or meaning , find that our case is undermined by the liter alists and fundamentalists in every religion .
there are christians who know all about the fire and br im stone of the book of revelation , but seem not to have heard the instructions about generosity in the ser m on on the mount .
likewise , there are hard- line jews , such as the settl er groups who drive palestinians from their homes in east jerusalem and he br on , who have forgotten the early teachings of jewish scholars who argued that strangers should be treated like your own people .
and there are muslims who ignore the koran ’ s commands of pluralism , tolerance , and peace .
where the athe ist assault is often correct is in pin pointing the amount of harm frequently done in our world by such fundamentalists .
right-wing american attitudes about their country ’ s place in the world are invigor ated by fundamentalist dogma .
the united nations is the devil ’ s own creation .
president barack obama is an un- american muslim .
palestine from the jordan river to the coast should be handed to israel so that the world can end with a cat ac ly sm ic christian triumph .
jewish fundamentalists obstruc t any peace process that is left in the middle east and build more illegal settlements .
islamic fundamentalists define jihad as a war of terror against the west and call for an islamic caliphate from the atlantic to the pacific .
the str ident and damaging dog m atism of fundamentalists of every stri pe has a common feature : a truc ulent sense of griev ance , rooted in fear and resentment of modernity .
christian fundamentalism in america har ks back to nineteenth-century populism and anti- intellectu alism .
members of evangel ical churches associate their beliefs with the ru gged individu alism of the early pione ers .
they are cont emp tuous of the establishment .
jewish fundamentalists believe that israel ’ s critics are anti-semitic or , in the case of jewish opponents of israel ’ s har der - line policies , “ self- h ating jews . ”
islamic fundamentalists reckon that what the rest of us regard as the liberalizing influence of technological progress and globalization is a br ash re- run of western colonialism .
for a happier new year , we should listen to the core messages of all these great religions , above all the confucian golden rule that we should never do to others what we would not like to be done to us .
what religion should teach us is not how to hate , but – to borrow again from confuci us – how to develop societies that look after and welcome the poor , the stranger , and the oppressed .
that is the most important message for everyone , athe ists included , to take from the christian story of christmas .
a gravity test for the euro
cambridge – although i appreciate that exchange rates are never easy to explain or understand , i find today ’ s relatively robust value for the euro somewhat mysterious .
do the g nom es of currency markets seriously believe that the eurozone governments ’ latest “ comprehensive package ” to save the euro will hold up for more than a few months ?
the new plan relies on a questionable mix of dubious financial- engineering g im mic ks and vague promises of modest asian funding .
even the best part of the plan , the proposed ( but not really agreed ) 50 % haircut for private-sector holders of greek sovereign debt , is not sufficient to stabilize that country ’ s profound debt and growth problems .
i can think of one very good reason why the euro needs to fall , and six not-so- convincing reasons why it should remain stable or appreciate .
let ’ s begin with why the euro needs to fall .
absent a clear path to a much tighter fiscal and political union , which can lead only through constitutional change , the current halfway house of the euro system appears increasingly untenable .
it seems clear that the european central bank will be forced to buy far greater quantities of eurozone sovereign ( junk ) bonds .
that may work in the short term , but if sovereign default risks materialize – as my research with carmen reinhart suggests is likely – the ecb will in turn have to be recapit alized .
and , if the stronger northern eurozone countries are unwilling to dig est this transfer – and political resistance runs high – the ecb may be forced to recapitalize itself through money creation .
either way , the threat of a profound financial crisis is high .
given this , what arguments support the current value of the euro , or its further rise ?
first , investors might be telling themselves that in the worst-case scenario , the northern european countries will effectively push out the weaker countries , creating a super- euro .
but , while this scenario has a certain ring of truth , surely any breakup would be highly traumatic , with the euro di ving before its r ump form recovered .
second , investors may be remembering that even though the dollar was at the epicenter of the 2008 financial panic , the consequences radi ated so widely that , paradoxically , the dollar actually rose in value .
although it may be difficult to connect the do ts , it is perfectly possible that a huge euro crisis could have a snow ball effect in the us and elsewhere .
perhaps the transmission mechanism would be through us banks , many of which remain vulnerable , owing to thin capitalization and huge portfolios of mortgages boo ked far above their market value .
third , foreign central banks and sovereign wealth funds may be keen to keep buying up euros to hedge against risks to the us and their own economies .
government investors are not necessarily driven by the re turn - maximizing calculus that motiv ates private investors .
if foreign official demand is the real reason behind the euro ’ s strength , the risk is that foreign sovereign euro buyers will eventually flee , just as private investors would , only in a faster and more concentrated way .
fourth , investors may believe that , ultimately , us risks are just as large as europe ’ s .
true , the us political system seems stym ied in coming up with a plan to stabilize medium-term budget deficits .
whereas the us congress ’ s “ super committee , ” charged with formulating a fiscal- consolidation package , will likely come up with a proposal , it is far from clear that either republicans or democrats will be willing to accept compromise in an election year .
moreover , investors might be worried that the us federal reserve will weigh in with a third round of “ quantitative easing , ” which would further drive down the dollar .
fifth , the current value of the euro does not seem wildly out of line on a purchas ing- power basis . an exchange rate of $ 1.4 : €1 is cheap for germany ’ s export powerhouse , which could probably operate well even with a far stronger euro .
for the eurozone ’ s southern periphery , however , today ’ s euro rate is very difficult to manage .
whereas some german companies persuaded workers to accept wage cuts to help weather the financial crisis , wages across the southern periphery have been mar ching steadily up wards , even as productivity has remained stagnant .
but , because the overall value of the euro has to be a balance of the eurozone ’ s north and south , one can argue that 1.4 is within a reasonable range .
finally , investors might just believe that the eurozone leaders ’ latest plan will work , even though the last dozen plans have failed .
abraham lincoln is credited with saying “ you can fool some of the people all of the time , and all of the people some of the time , but you can not fool all of the people all of the time . ”
a comprehensive euro fix will surely arrive for some of the countries at some time , but not for all of the countries anytime soon .
so , yes , there are plenty of v agu ely plausible reasons why the euro , despite its draw n- out crisis , has remained so firm against the dollar so far .
but don ’ t count on a stable euro- dollar exchange rate – much less an even stronger euro – in the year ahead .
oxford – while austerity in europe faces increasing social resistance , in principle it has the merit of simplicity .
as the debate on fiscal consolidation versus growth intensi fies , it is clear that there is little agreement on how to kick-start the economy , beyond fi el ding broad stimulus packages .
one idea is that environmental technology might feed a virtuous cycle of innovation and employment .
to some , green growth evo kes a countryside covered with wind mil ls and urban ro of s lined with solar panels .
but it is broader than that .
for example , when air bus moved from injection mol ding to 3d printing to produce the metal hinges for its air planes ’ doors , it reduced their weight by half , yielding phenomen al savings in material and associated fuel consumption over a lifetime of flying those hinges around the world .
still , it is easier to find exciting anec do tes than it is to show how they scale up to revit alizing an entire economy .
moreover , there is a great diversity of narratives on the green economy – and their proliferation is likely to grow .
this june , thousands of activists , policymakers , and business people will converge on rio de janeiro for the third giant united nations sustainable development conference ( ri o + 20 ) , whose theme is the green economy .
the conference will unleash new arguments about green jobs , growth , cost increases , cost reductions , changes in values , consumer choice – green this and green that .
as a co- author of a new growth path for europe , a report commissioned by the german government , i am guilty of contributing to this cac oph ony of complementary perspectives on green growth .
the european climate foundation had already published its roadmap 2050 , a practical guide to a prosperous , low-carbon europe .
since then , the un environment program has released its green economy report ; mckinsey has written about the resource revolution ; and the international trade unions council has published growing green and decent jobs – to name but a few .
all take somewhat different approaches and offer different recommendations , making it hard for policymakers to see the forest through the trees .
and , at the root of this multipl icity of perspectives lays the fact that economics struggles to explain how growth and innovation move an economy as a whole .
the macroeconomic models on which policymakers depend are solid tools in times of smooth and incremental evolution , but green growth is not about gradual change .
for example , the european union ’ s goal of achieving an 80 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 implies a complete overhaul of eu infrastructure in just a few decades .
economists ’ inability to model such rapid , radical change should not be taken as a condemnation of the discipline ; it is simply a reflection of the state of our knowledge , and of the fact that the economy is really , really complicated .
we simply do not yet have sufficiently precise insights into how all of its elements interact during times of far-reaching change , whether it be a financial crisis or a growth spur t .
yet , the studies of green growth mentioned above all appear to provide such explanations .
so , what do they really tell us ?
in practice , each is limited to just one or two aspects of the economy , and describes how these interact .
growing green and decent jobs looks at the relationship between investment and jobs .
a new growth path for europe exam ines the impact of expectations and lear n ing- by- doing .
roadmap 2050 focuses on gre ening the power system .
the authors then make a leap of faith to derive conclusions about the economy as a whole .
but , while the value of these studies is in the light that they shed on the parts , the ensuing headlines invariably are about the whole , articulated in terms of gdp and jobs .
each of the studies describes a part of a green economy , but none can capture the whole – not because they are deficient , but because it is simply beyond our capability .
that said , the fact that one can not prove conclu sively how green growth would work does not mean that we should give up on the idea .
we can not prove that a wave of environmental innovation will have a similar effect , but the studies of the parts make such an outcome highly plausible .
as humans , we are uniquely equipped to make decisions on the basis of ambiguous information – in fact , we do it all the time .
when we choose a career or a sp ouse in our private lives , or when a politician se izes an opportunity from a ple thor a of possibilities , the task at hand is always about making highly consequential decisions based on imperfect information .
a big pile of green- growth reports demonstrates the plau sibility of this path to recovery from an historic economic crisis .
it is now up to us to realize its potential .
green growth offers a realistic alternative to the faltering austerity approach to overcoming the current economic crisis .
policymakers should incorporate this thinking into the “ beyond austerity ” narrative that is taking shape in a growing number of key eu member states .
ethics and agriculture
melbourne – should rich countries – or investors based there – be buying agricultural land in developing countries ?
that question is raised in transnational land deals for agriculture in the global south , a report issued last year by the land mat ri x partnership , a consortium of european research institutes and nongovernmental organizations .
the report shows that since 2000 , investors or state bodies in rich or emerging countries have bought more than 83 million hectares ( more than 200 million ac res ) of agricultural land in poorer developing countries .
this amounts to 1.7 % of the world ’ s agricultural land .
most of these purchases have been made in africa , with two-thirds taking place in countries where hunger is widespread and institutions for establishing formal land ownership are often weak .
the purchases in africa alone amount to an area of agricultural land the size of kenya .
it has been claimed that foreign investors are purchasing land that has been left idle ; thus , by bringing it into production , the purchases are increasing the availability of food overall .
but the land mat ri x partnership report found that this is not the case : roughly 45 % of the purchases involved existing cro pl ands , and almost a third of the purchased land was for ested , indicating that its development may pose risks for biodiversity .
the investments are both private and public ( for example , by state-owned entities ) and come from three different groups of countries : emerging economies like china , india , brazil , south africa , malaysia , and south korea ; oil-rich gulf states ; and wealthy developed economies like the united states and several european countries .
on average , per capita income in the countries that are the source of these investments is four times higher than in the target countries .
most of the investments are aimed at producing food or other crops for export from the countries in which the land is acquired , for the obvious reason that richer countries can pay more for the output .
more than 40 % of such projects aim to export food to the source country – suggesting that food security is a major reason for buying the land .
ox f am international calls some of these deals “ land grabs . ”
its own report , our land , our lives , indicates that , since 2008 , communities affected by world bank projects have brought 21 formal complaints alleg ing violations of their land rights .
ox f am , drawing attention to large-scale land acquisitions that have entailed direct rights violations , has called on the bank to freeze investments in land purchases until it can set standards ensuring that local communities are informed of them in advance , with the option of refusing them .
ox f am also wants the bank to ensure that these land deals do not undermine either local or national food security .
in response , the world bank agreed that there are instances of abuse in land acquisition , particularly in developing countries in which governance is weak , and said that it supported more transparent and inclusive participation .
at the same time , it pointed to the need to increase food production to feed the extra two billion people expected to be alive in 2050 , and suggested that more investment in agriculture in developing countries is required to improve productivity .
the bank rejected the idea of a moratorium on its own work with investors in agriculture , arguing that this would target precisely those who are most likely to do the right thing .
one may ask whether transparency and the requirement that local land holders consent to a sale is enough to protect people living in poverty .
supporters of free markets will argue that if local land owners wish to sell their land , that is their choice to make .
after all , we do not allow poor people to sell their kid neys to the highest bid der .
of course , hardline supporters of free markets will say that we should .
but , at the very least , it needs to be explained why people should be prohibited from selling kid neys , but not from selling the land that grows their food .
most people can live without one kidney .
no one can live without food .
why does the purchase of body parts give rise to international condemnation , while the purchase of agricultural land does not – even when it involves evic ting local land holders and producing food for export to rich countries instead of for local consumption ?
the world bank may indeed be more concerned about local land holders ’ rights than other foreign investors are .
if so , the 21 complaints made against bank projects are most likely the visible tip of a vast iceberg of violations of land rights by foreign investors in agricultural projects in developing countries – with the others remaining invisible because victims have no access to any complaint procedure .
one such case bel atedly came to the attention of the united nations human rights committee .
in november , the committee concluded that germany had failed to police the neu mann k aff ee gr up pe regarding its complicity in the forced evic tion of several villages in uganda to make way for a large coffee pl ant ation .
but the evic tions took place in 2001 , and the villagers are still living in extreme poverty .
they found no remedy , in either uganda or germany , for the violation of rights that , according to the committee , they possess under the international co ven ant on civil and political rights , to which germany is a signatory .
are we to believe that land holders fare better with chinese or saudi investors ?
the rise of the food bar ons
berlin – the industri al- agriculture sector has long faced criticism for practices that contribute to climate change , environmental destruction , and rural poverty .
and yet the sector has taken virtually no steps to improve quality and sustainability , or to promote social justice .
this is not surprising . although there are more than 5 70 million farmers and seven billion consumers worldwide , just a handful of companies control the global industri al- agriculture value chain – from field to shop counter .
given the high profits and vast political power of these companies , changes to the status quo are not in their interest .
moreover , market concentration in the agriculture sector is on the rise , owing to increased demand for the agricultural raw materials needed in food , animal feed , and energy production .
as the middle class in southern countries has grown , its members ’ consumption and nutritional habits have changed , boosting global demand for processed foods – and setting off a scramble for market power among multinational agricultural , chemical , and food corporations .
the biggest players in these sectors have been buying out their smaller competitors for years .
but now they are also buying out one another , often with financing provided by investors from completely different sectors .
consider the seed and agro chemical sector , where bay er , the second-largest pesticide producer in the world , is in the process of acquiring mon san to , the largest seed producer , for € 66 billion ( $ 74 billion ) .
if the united states and the european union approve the deal , as seems likely , just three conglomerates – bay er- mon san to , d ow- du pon t and chem china- syn gent a – will control over 60 % of the global seed and agro chemical market .
“ bay san to ” alone would be the proprie tor of almost every genetically modified plant on the planet .
with other large mergers also being announced , the global agriculture market at the end of 2017 could look very different than it did at the beginning .
each of the three major conglomerates will be closer to its goal of achieving domination of the seed and pesticide markets – at which point they will be able to dictate food products , prices , and quality worldwide .
the agro technical sector is experiencing some of the same changes as the seed sector .
the five largest corporations account for 65 % of the market , with de ere & company , the owner of the john de ere brand , in the lead .
the most promising new opportunity for food corporations today lies in the digitization of agriculture .
this process is still in its early stages , but it is gathering momentum , and eventually it will cover all areas of production .
soon enough , drones will take over the task of spr aying pesticides ; livestock will be equipped with sen sors to track milk quantities , movement patterns , and feed r ations ; tr actors will be controlled by g ps ; and app -controlled s owing machines will assess soil quality to determine the optimal distance between rows and plants .
to maximize the benefits of these new technologies , the companies that already dominate the value chain have begun cooperating with one another .
the john de er es and mon santos have now joined forces .
the confl u ence of soil and weather “ big data , ” new agro technologies , genetically modified seeds , and new developments in agro chemistry will help these companies save money , protect natural resources , and maximize crop yields worldwide .
but while this possible future bodes well for some of the world ’ s largest companies , it leaves the environmental and social problems associated with industrialized agriculture un solved .
most farmers , particularly in the global south , will never be able to afford expensive digit al- age machinery .
the ma x im “ grow or go ” will be replaced with “ dig itiz e or disappear . ”
the etc group , an american non-governmental organization , has already outlined a future scenario in which the major agro technology corporations move upstream and absorb the seed and pesticide producers .
at that point , just a few companies will determine everything that we eat .
indeed , the same market- concentration problem applies to other links in the value chain , such as agricultural traders and super markets .
and even though food processing is not yet consolidated on a global scale , it is still dominated at the regional level by companies such as unil ever , dan one , mon del ez , and ne st l é .
these companies make money when fresh or semi- processed food is replaced by highly processed convenience foods such as frozen p iz za , can ned sou p , and ready- made meals .
while lucrative , this business model is closely linked to obesity , diabetes , and other chronic diseases .
worse , food corporations are also prof iting from the proliferation of illnesses for which they are partly responsible , by marketing “ healthy ” processed foods enriched with protein , vit am ins , pro bio tics , and om eg a- 3 fat ty ac ids .
meanwhile , corporations are am assing market power at the expense of those at the bottom of the value chain : farmers and workers .
international labor organization standards guarantee all workers the right to organize , and they prohibit forced and child labor and pros cr ibe race and gender discrimination .
but labor- law violations have become the norm , because efforts to enforce ilo rules are often qu ashed , while trade union members are routinely threatened , fired , and even murdered .
in this hostile climate , minimum-wage , over time- pay , and work plac e- safety standards are openly neglected .
and women , in particular , are at a disadvantage , because they are paid less than their male counterparts and often must settle for seas onal or temporary jobs .
today , half of the world ’ s 800 million starving people are small farmers and workers connected to the agricultural sector .
their lot will hardly improve if the few companies already dominating that sector become even more powerful .
how to feed the world
prague – hunger has wr acked humanity since time im memorial .
nearly every major society has been shaped by famine ; one estimate suggests that china suffered drought or floo d- induced starvation in at least one province almost every year from 10 8 bc to 19 11 .
yet the struggle against hunger is a battle that humanity could finally win .
more cer e als were produced annually in the last quarter of the twentieth century than in any preceding period , and more grain will be harv ested this year than at any time in history .
since 1992 , the number of hungry people worldwide has plummeted by more than 200 million , even as the human population grew by nearly two billion .
affordable , nutriti ous food is one of people ’ s top priorities everywhere , and one in nine people still do not get enough food to be healthy .
with today ’ s population of 7. 3 billion expected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030 and 9. 7 billion in 2050 , food demand will increase accordingly .
along with more mou ths to feed , stresses on food supplies will include conflicts , economic volatility , extreme weather events , and climate change .
increases in agricultural productivity , owing to improvements in seeds , new fertilizers and pesticides , improved credit access , and technological breakthroughs , have been a key driver in reducing hunger .
between 1930 and 2000 , agricultural output in the united states quadru pled , with productivity growth out str ipping that of manufacturing .
developing countries have begun sharing in these gains : responsible for next- to- none of the world ’ s fertilizer consumption in 1960 , by 2000 they used more than industrialized countries .
the world bank has found that productivity growth in agriculture can be up to four times more effective in reducing poverty than growth from other sectors .
so how do we keep up this progress ?
investment in research and development is vital .
according to research conducted for copenhagen consensus , which i direct , investing an extra $ 88 billion in agricultural r & d over the next 15 years would increase yields by an additional 0.4 percentage points each year , which could save 79 million people from hunger and prevent five million cases of child mal nour ishment .
achieving these targets would be worth nearly $ 3 trillion in social good , implying an enormous return of $ 34 for every dollar spent .
scientific breakthroughs also play a key role in fighting specific nutritional challenges such as vitamin a deficiency , the leading cause of preventable childhood blindness .
robert m w ang a was awarded this year ’ s world food prize for inspiring work that resulted in the large-scale replacement of white swe et po ta to ( with scant vitamin a content ) by a vitamin a- rich alternative in the diets of uganda ’ s rural poor .
another way to increase agricultural productivity is through labor .
when copenhagen consensus researchers examined responses to global warming in bangladesh , they found that increasing agricultural labor productivity “ is the only way to increase the resilience of bangladesh to climate change and to meet long-term development goals . ”
investing around $ 9,000 per worker over two decades could boost agricultural productivity by 10 % .
bangladesh is an instructive case , because it is susceptible to flooding and the effects of climate change , and its agricultural productivity lags behind other developing and middle-income countries .
unsurprisingly , the bangladeshi prime minister ’ s office is striving to lead in global innovation , sustaining an agriculture innovation lab that shares best practices and ideas .
copenhagen consensus has worked with the world ’ s largest ngo , br ac , to find out the policy wishes of people living in rural bangladesh , including the “ ultra- poor ” with whom br ac works closely .
these laborers , house wives , and others , some of whom live on the equivalent of $ 0. 60- 0. 70 or less a day , are seldom given a place at the table to discuss policy .
across nine rural forums in far- fl ung parts of the country , the participants overwhelmingly spoke with one voice , calling for the same policy priority : increased agricultural productivity .
“ everyone knows r ang pur has a mon g a problem , ” said a local from chan d par a in the r ang pur division , using the beng ali term for the annual cyclical phenomenon of seas onal hunger .
“ we can not feed our people two times a day – we need to increase our agricultural productivity . ”
a mu k im abad vill ager had the same vision for bangladesh : “ we need crops and seeds which are not vulnerable to sal inity and flood so that we do not have to die from food shortages . ”
humanity ’ s fight against hunger can be won .
great progress has been made , but the world needs more agricultural r & d and higher productivity .
as a rural vill ager from de uk hol a , near the bra h m ap u tra river in remote northern bangladesh , starkly put it : “ our survival depends on it . ”
we would do well to listen .
an arab marshall plan
but , although the revolutions toppled dictators and transformed societies , these core objectives remain as distant as ever .
in fact , the economic challenges facing the arab spring countries have become even more pressing , weighing heavily on these countries ’ political prospects .
unemployment has nearly doubled in tunisia and egypt , and foreign direct investment has dried up across the arab world .
tourism revenues , while resilient , are declining , and fiscal challenges remain considerable .
but the economic urgency is not reflected in the policy response , which has been painfully slow or non-existent .
for example , egypt ’ s fiscal deficit will exceed 11 % of gdp this year .
but the country ’ s leaders have been st alling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan .
the government ’ s reduction of fuel subsidies last year was not followed by additional reforms , and the required tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it .
almost all political stakeholders in egypt , as in the other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform .
but neither citizens nor policymakers appear willing to bear its social and political costs .
in a charged and uncertain political climate , in which new crises erupt on a daily basis , it is unsurprising that economic reform has been postponed repeatedly .
politicians know that macroeconomic stabilization and social cohesion can be ir reconc il able in the short run .
slashing food and energy subsidies in order to reduce fiscal strain is unlikely to win favor in a country like egypt , where 40 % of per capita income is allocated to food .
politics is thus constraining efforts to strengthen public finances .
at the same time , narrow imf prescriptions threaten to exacerbate political instability , with citizens no longer afraid to take to the streets to demonstrate their dissatisfaction .
the current impasse on economic reform highlights a larger point : subsidy and tax regimes can not be reformed without first re defining the underlying social contract , which has long exchanged welfare distribution for political acquiescence .
but such a move is far too risky for an individual politician , or even a single country , at a time of economic uncertainty and high unemployment .
in order to create the political space needed for economic reform , arab leaders must under write a regional growth pact – a marshall plan of sorts – that would facilitate major new investments aimed at reviving economic activity .
it is much easier to reform subsidy programs when the economy is expanding .
moreover , building competitive markets is essential to ensuring sustainable gdp growth .
to this end , regional trade barriers , which are more pervasive in the arab world than even in sub-saharan africa , must be dismantled .
by agreeing to the pact , arab countries would commit to reforming their subsidy systems and to reducing restrictions on cross-border economic exchange .
the regional dimension of prosperity has long been ignored in the arab world .
but weak regional linkages limit small firms ’ growth potential , forcing them to depend on state patronage .
although arab leaders often cite turkey as a beacon of hope , they rarely acknowledge that the country ’ s recent transformation from the “ sick man of europe ” to one of the world ’ s fastest-growing emerging markets would not have been possible had it not pursued regional synerg ies .
such linkages are particularly important for egypt and tunisia , which will struggle to reduce unemployment unless libya ’ s labor market – which has historically absorbed migrants from its north african neighbors – is re opened .
and , while tunisia ’ s situation seems to be the most promising , a crippling investment shortfall is threatening to derail reform efforts there .
with europe mired in crisis , capital flows from tunisia ’ s resource-rich arab neighbors are its best hope .
furthermore , arab countries must rat ch et up development spending .
new investment vehicles , such as sovereign wealth funds and islamic finance , can contribute financing to credit- starved firms .
at the same time , arab countries must stream line current aid efforts .
for too long , arab governments have simply thrown money at problems , with the rich gulf countries effectively subsidizing their troubled neighbors ’ public services .
over the last two years , saudi arabia has provided more than $ 3 billion to yemen .
qatar has provided $ 5 billion to egypt since 2011 , with a promise of $ 3 billion more .
and the united arab emirates recently pledged $ 2.5 billion to bahrain .
but unconditional aid only delays reforms , because it weakens budget constraints , which reduces pressure on policymakers and creates moral hazard .
the arab spring has exposed fault lines that run not just through individual countries , but also through the entire region .
this calls for re defining relationships not only between citizens and states , but also among arab countries .
above all , it is no longer prudent to divide arab countries between donors and recipients , or between resource-rich and resource- poor countries .
it is in the interest of the entire region – including those countries that do not seem to face an imminent threat of revolt – to contribute to their neighbors ’ economic revival and facilitate their political transitions .
the a historical federal reserve
berkeley – economic developments over the past 20 years have taught – or ought to have taught – the us federal reserve four lessons .
yet the fed ’ s current policy posture raises the question of whether it has intern alized any of them .
the first lesson is that , at least as long as the current interest-rate configuration is sustained , the proper inflation target for the fed should be 4 % per year , rather than 2 % .
a higher target is essential in order to have enough room to make the cuts in short-term safe nominal interest rates of five percentage points or more that are usually called for to cushion the effects of a recession when it hits the economy .
the fed protests that to change its inflation target even once would erode the credibility of its commitment to ensuring price stability .
but the fed can pay now or it can pay later .
after all , what good is credibility today when it means sticking ten ac iously to a policy that depriv es you of the ability to do your job properly tomorrow ?
the second lesson is that the two slope co effici ents in the al ge bra ic equation that is the phil li ps curve – the link between expected inflation and current inflation , and the respon siveness of future inflation to current unemployment – are both much smaller than they were back in the 1970s or even in the 1980s .
then- fed chair alan greenspan recognized this in the 1990s .
he rightly judged that pushing for faster growth and lower unemployment was not taking excessive risks , but rather harv esting low- hanging fruit .
the current fed appears to have a different view .
the third lesson is that yiel d- curve in version in the bond market is not just a sign that the market thinks that monetary policy is too tight ; it is a sign that monetary policy really is too tight .
the people who bid up the prices of long-term us treasury bills in anticipation of interest-rate cuts when the fed over shoots and triggers a recession are the same people who are now on ten ter ho o ks wondering when to start cutting back on investment plans because a recession will soon produce overcapacity .
the fed today has a “ habitat theory ” about why this time is different – that is , why the preferences of investors for particular maturity leng ths imply that a yiel d- curve in version would not mean what it has always meant .
but 2006 , just before the financial crisis hit , was supposed to be different , too .
( and there were plenty of times before then that were supposed to be different , too . )
history suggests that this time is highly unlikely to be different – and that it will not end well if the fed continues to believe and behave otherwise .
back in the 1980s , it was not unreasonable to argue that the next large shock to the us macro economy was likely to be inflationary .
it is much more difficult to reasonably argue that today .
for the past three and a half decades , the principal shocks have not been inflationary , like the 1973 and 1979 oil crises , but rather deflationary , like the us savings and loan crisis in the 1980s and 1990s , the 1997 asian crisis , the 2000 do t- com bust , the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , the 2007 subprime collapse that began in the us , and the 2010 european debt crash .
former fed chair janet yellen told me back in the 1990s that , in her view , conducting the fed ’ s internal debate within the framework of interest-rate rules had greatly increased the ease of getting from agreement about the structure and state of the economy to a rough consensus on appropriate policy .
but , at least as i see it , right now the fed ’ s process of getting from a realistic view of the economy to an appropriate monetary policy does not seem to be functioning well at all .
perhaps it is time for the fed to place its internal discussions in a more explicit framework .
one can imagine , for example , the fed adopting an “ optimal control ” method , whereby monetary-policy settings are established by running multiple simul ations of a macroeconomic model using different comb inations of interest rates and balance-sheet tools to project future inflation and unemployment .
the problem for optimal control methods is that the real world is not some closed system where economic relationships never change , or where they change in fully predictable ways .
the most effective – and thus the most credible – monetary policy is one that reflects not only the lessons of history , but also a willingness to reconsider long- held assumptions .
a history lesson for koizumi
once again , protests against japanese prime minister jun ich iro koizumi ’ s annual visit to the yasukuni shrine are breaking out in china as well as south korea .
koizumi ’ s insistence on paying hom age to the war dead inter red at yasukuni , where convicted war criminals from world war ii are among the buried , has been damaging relations with japan ’ s neighbors for years .
indeed , chinese president hu jintao continually affir ms that he will not hold a summit with a japanese prime minister who goes to yasukuni , which most chinese regard as a glor ification of past japanese aggression and colonialism .
even some in japan are becoming critical of koizumi .
while the public remains negative about chinese out bur sts against japan , a recent survey indicates that more than 70 % of japanese view the current state of japan- china relations as unacceptable .
more people are not supporting koizumi ’ s annual pilgr image to yasukuni , with seven former prime ministers jointly demanding that he refrain from the visits .
yet koizumi remains def iant .
moreover , chief cabinet secretary shin z u abe , the front- run ner to succeed him , has openly declared that he will continue to visit the shrine as prime minister .
foreign minister tar o as o , another possible successor to koizumi , has called for the japanese emperor to pr ay at yasukuni .
so pessimism appears to be settling in , and the deadlock over yasukuni appears to be deepening .
but the past can bring us more than just troubles of this kind .
even on the issue of yasukuni , there are positive lessons to be learned .
consider yas u h iro n ak as one , koizumi ’ s predecessor in the 1980 ’ s .
both are master politicians who remained popular and served long terms in office .
both are conservative and nationalistic , advocating the revision of the constitution and an assertive political and military role for japan abroad .
finally , both are pro- american , with n ak as one declaring japan to be america ’ s “ un sin kable aircraft carrier ” in east asia and koizumi sending troops to iraq in support of the united states -led war effort .
but a crucial difference between n ak as one and koizumi is often overlooked : their handling of the yasukuni controversy and relations with china .
n ak as one broke the taboo by being the first prime minister to worship at the yasukuni shrine in his official capacity on august 15 , 1985 , the forti eth anniversary of the end of world war ii .
the decision triggered a severe response from china , where students held demonstrations against his visit .
but , instead of capit alizing on domestic resentment over china ’ s criticisms , n ak as one decided not to visit yasukuni again .
he chose to mend relations with china by focusing on the positive aspects of bilateral ties .
in 1986 , n ak as one went to beijing at the personal invitation of chinese communist party general secretary hu ya o bang and laid the cornerstone for a sino- japanese youth exchange center , promising to forge future friend ships with china .
this genuine embrace of reconciliation provided much-needed support to chinese leaders , who were eager to control anti-japanese sentiments .
hu praised n ak as one ’ s courage and warned chinese youth publicly that if they “ think merely of the well-being of their own country … they are not so ber -minded patri ots . ”
n ak as one emerged from the crisis and was recognized as a capable statesman in managing japan ’ s diplomacy with china .
there was no accus ation that n ak as one was “ selling out ” to beijing .
nor were his conservative , nationalist , and pro- american credentials damaged .
this episode suggests that koizumi ’ s hardline position isn ’ t the only option .
a japanese prime minister can be strong without exploiting domestic resentment against the country ’ s neighbors , and conservative , patriotic , and pro- american while forging a healthy working relationship with china .
indeed , the c ess ation of yasukuni visits would likely open the door to the long-overdue sino- japanese summit , which in turn might strengthen moderate voices in china seeking a fu ture- oriented relationship with japan .
unfortunately , koizumi and his allies are not prepared to move forward on the yasukuni issue .
as foreign minister as o recently put it : “ the more china voices [ opposition ] , the more one feels like going there .
it ’ s just like when you ’ re told ‘ do n't smoke cigarettes , ’ it actually makes you want to smoke . ”
no one expects the current japanese and chinese leaders to embrace , as n ak as one and hu did two decades ago , but it is a sad state of affairs when the leaders of neighboring giants pretend not to see each other at international forums .
if n ak as one , who now urg es koizumi to stop the yasukuni pilgr image , were to respond to as o , he might simply extend the analogy : it is not in japan ’ s national interest to continue to in hal e koizumi ’ s second- hand smoke .
israel versus america versus iran
tel aviv – israel ’ s concern about the specter of a nuclear iran has now de generated into a crisis of confidence concerning the united states .
prime minister binyamin netanyahu has embarked on a campaign to force president barack obama to set a red line that iran must not cross , lest it risk unleashing an american military response .
implicit threats of a unilateral israeli attack , together with conspicuous meddling in the us presidential election campaign , have compounded netanyahu ’ s effort to twist obama ’ s arm .
the controversy between the two allies partly reflects their divergent tim elines : for israel , the red line is iran ’ s imminent bur ial deep underground of its uran ium- enrichment facilities ; for the us , it is the start of a dedicated weapons program .
but , equally important , the dispute underscores their different objectives .
for israel , war with iran is not about neutr alizing an existential threat ; it is about reasser ting its regional status .
israel ’ s leaders see their country ’ s standing in the region being seriously threatened by the emergence of a hostile islamist regime in egypt ; the possibility that a similarly hostile regime will eventually emerge in syria ; the fragility of traditionally friendly jordan ; and the dangerous boost that the regional islamist awakening has given to israel ’ s sworn enemies , hamas and hezbollah .
both netanyahu and defense minister ehud barak thus regard an attack on iran as a major strategic move aimed at the broader middle east , which implies that they would not discount a military campaign that goes well beyond surgical air strikes .
indeed , they probably contemplate land incursions into iran , and possibly a decisive – and , from their perspective , long overdue – showdown with hamas in gaza and hezbollah in lebanon .
though determined to prevent iran from acquiring nuclear weapons , even if doing so requires military action , the us weighs the consequences of a military showdown in very different terms .
a superpower that has earned only frustration in its abor tive efforts – whether war or regional diplomacy – in the dysfunctional middle east , the us faces the iran crisis in the midst of its epo ch al strategic shift to asia and the pacific .
the fallout from a war in iran would pin down the us in the middle east for years to come , undermining its new strategic priorities .
the recent report by the iran project , whose signatories include the former us national security advisers br ent sc ow cro ft and zb ign ie w br z ez in ski , concluded that an american military attack on iran could only delay its nuclear program for up to four years .
to guarantee that iran never acqu ires a nuclear bomb , the us would need to maintain military pressure on iran for several years .
and , if forced to impose regime change as the ultimate solution to the dilemma , the report assumes that this would require military occupation , which would entail a commitment of resources and personnel greater than what the us invested in the iraq and afghanistan wars combined .
moreover , the conventional assumption that the region ’ s sunni arab regimes would give tacit approval to a military attack on iran ’ s nuclear installations must be revis ited in the wake of the arab spring – particularly in the aftermath of the recent , sudden upsurge in anti-american violence throughout the muslim world .
the pre- arab spring paradigm that framed the middle east as being divided between “ moderates ” and “ extremists ” has become obsolete .
the islamist governments that have emerged from the downfall of america ’ s pup pet regimes are no friends of an iranian nuclear empire .
but , in their struggle to survive , they must channel popular anti-americanism .
for egyptian president mohamed morsi , that imperative meant plac ating the angry mob that recently attacked the us embassy rather than merely condemning the violence .
an attack on iran , especially if it develops into a longer war involving regional proxies , is bound to become the trigger for mass anti- israel and anti- us hyster ia , which might draw the islamist regimes in the region into a dynamic of escalation .
it would be impossible to rule out a regional war .
the main problem facing a military operation in iran is the need to ensure its legitimacy .
china and russia would never allow the us to secure a united nations mandate for an attack .
moreover , while iranian provocations that clearly reveal the regime ’ s intentions to develop a nuclear-weapons capability might help build support for american military action , it is far from certain that europeans , or others , would rush to join another us-led “ coalition of the willing . ”
the dire legacy of iraq and afghanistan weighs heavily on the western democracies .
the sadd est part of the story is israel ’ s utter indifference to the need to build international legitimacy for its drive to stop iran ’ s nuclear program .
netanyahu thinks in bold military terms , not in terms of geopolitical strategy .
his ca reless palestine policy has left israel with few friends in the international community , let alone in the arab middle east .
indeed , many regard netanyahu ’ s iran obsession as nothing more than a successful plo y to divert attention from the palestinian issue .
only a generous , bold peace initiative that would genuinely revive the two-state solution , accompanied by a freeze on construction and enlargement of west bank settlements , would help to recover the good will of the palestinians and their bre thr en throughout the arab world .
and only that outcome can secure the international goodwill that both israel and the us will need for a showdown with iran .
a human rights crime in gaza
atl anta -- the world is witnessing a terrible human rights crime in gaza , where a million and a half human beings are being imprisoned with almost no access to the outside world by sea , air , or land . an entire population is being brutally punished .
this gross mistre at ment of the palestinians in gaza was escalated dramatically by israel , with united states backing , after political candidates representing hamas won a majority of seats in the palestinian authority parliament in 2006 . the election was unanimously judged to be honest and fair by all international observers .
israel and the us refused to accept the right of palestinians to form a unity government with hamas and fatah and now , after internal strife , hamas alone controls gaza . for ty- one of the 43 victorious hamas candidates who lived in the west bank are now imprisoned by israel , plus an additional ten who assumed positions in the short-lived coalition cabinet .
regardless of one ’ s choice in the partisan struggle between fatah and hamas within occupied palestine , we must remember that economic sanctions and restrictions in delivering water , food , electricity , and fuel are causing extreme hardship among the innocent people in gaza , about one million of whom are refugees .
israeli bombs and missiles periodically strike the enc ap sul ated area , causing high casualties among both militants and innocent women and children .
prior to the highly publicized killing of a woman and her four little children last week , this pattern was illustrated by a previous report from b ’ t sel em , the leading israeli human rights organization : 10 6 palestinians were killed between february 27 and march 3 . fif ty- four of them were civilians who did n't take part in the fighting , and 25 were under 18 years of age .
on a recent trip through the middle east , i attempted to gain a better understanding of the crisis .
one of my visits was to s der ot , a community of about 20,000 in southern israel that is frequently struck by ru dim entary rockets fired from nearby gaza .
subsequently , i met with leaders of hamas , both a delegation from gaza and the top officials in damascus , syria .
i made the same condemnation to them , and urged that they declare a unilateral ceasefire or orchestr ate with israel a mutual agreement to termin ate all military action in and around gaza for an extended period .
they responded that such previous action by them had not been reciproc ated , and they reminded me that hamas had previously insisted on a ceasefire throughout palestine including both gaza and the west bank , which israel had refused .
hamas then made a public proposal of a mutual ceasefire restricted to gaza , which the israelis considered and also rejected .
there are fer vent arguments heard on both sides concerning blame for a lack of peace in the holy land .
israel has occupied and colon ized the palestinian west bank , which is approximately one- fourth ( 2 8.5 % ) the size of the nation of israel as recognized by the international community .
some israeli religious factions claim a right to the land on both sides of the jordan river , and others a ver that their 20 5 settlements with some 500,000 people are necessary for “ security . ”
all arab nations have agreed to full recognition of israel if it will comply with key united nations resolutions .
hamas has agreed to accept any negotiated peace settlement between palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert , provided it is approved in a referendum among the palestinian people .
this holds promise of progress , but despite the brief fanfare and positive statements at the peace conference last november in ann apol is , mar y land , a retro gres sion has occurred in the process .
nine thousand new israeli settlement housing units have been announced in palestine , the number of road blocks within the west bank has increased , and the strang le hold on gaza has been tightened .
it is one thing for other leaders to def er to the us on the crucial peace negotiations , but the world must not stand idle while innocent people are treated cruel ly .
it is time for strong voices in europe , the us , israel , and elsewhere to speak out and condemn this human rights tragedy among the palestinian people .
a hundred years of super conduc tivity
chicago – the world ’ s first “ quantum ” computer – a machine that har nesses the magic of quantum phenomena to perform memory and processing tasks incredibly faster than today ’ s sil ic on-based computer chips – was recently sold by d- wave systems of canada to loc k he ed- martin .
and , while some question whether the machine is truly a quantum computer , its design ers have published articles in peer- reviewed journals demonstrating that the basic elements of this novel computer are indeed super conducting quantum bits .
this spring marked the 10 0th anniversary of the discovery of super conduc tivity – the ability of materials to carry electrical current with no loss .
currents set up in super conducting wi res can exist for years without any measurable decay .
because of this property , super conduc tors have unique features that can be exploited in many ways .
they can carry enormous amounts of current , making them ideal for urban power grids . and , when wound into co ils , they can produce extremely strong magne tic fields .
such super conducting mag nets have been applied in a variety of technologies .
the best- known examples are the mag nets that drive the magne tic reson ance im aging ( m ri ) machines found in most hospitals .
perhaps the most ex otic are the huge mag nets used to accelerate particles in the large had ron col li der , which seeks to discover the fundamental principles of matter .
despite their great promise , however , super conduc tors have limits , the primary one being that most super conduct at very low temperatures – indeed , near absolute zero ( - 2 73 º c ) .
such temperatures can be achieved only through liquid - helium cooling .
thus , swiss researchers caused excitement in 1986 by announcing the discovery of super conduc tivity in an oxide of copper at twice the temperature of the previous record holder .
shortly thereafter , researchers in the united states found a related material that super conduc ts above the temperature at which air liqu ef ies .
as time magazine proclaimed in may 1987 , with the discovery of these so-called “ cu pr ates , ” the super conducting revolution had begun .
alas , the revolution soon bo gged down .
this is exacerbated by their strong an is o trop y – the materials have a quasi- two- dimensional structure consisting of a weak ly coupled st ack of conducting sheets . as such , they are a challenge for industry , though applications are beginning to appear .
since the cu pr ates first appeared , a variety of other “ high temperature ” super conduc tors have been discovered – one is a simple compound of magn es ium and bor on , and another involves a mixture of iron and arsen ic .
although none of them super conduct at temperatures as high as liquid air , they may ultimately be better materials with which to work .
given the vast number of comb inations of elements that can form compounds , there is a good chance that better super conduc tors await our discovery .
in the coming years , super conduc tors are expected to play a growing role in technology .
already , “ second generation ” cu pr ate wi res are being used to make high- capacity c ables for electr ic- power transmission , and ligh ter- weight gener ators for wind turbines .
stronger super conducting mag nets are leading to the development of m ris with more sophisticated diagnostic capabilities .
super conduc tors are being used for le vit ated trains in high-speed rail transport , and as mic row a ve fil ters for improved signal band wid th in cell ular base stations .
the discovery of a new super conduc tor with enhanced properties could lead to even greater technological innovation .
this brings us to the intellectual challenge of super conduc tors .
it took 46 years from the discovery of super conduc tivity to the 1957 bar de en , co op er , and sch r ie ffer ( b cs ) theory of how the phenomenon occurs .
along the way , a number of famous physicists tried and failed to get the answer – albert einstein , wer ner he isen berg , and richard fe yn man being notable examples .
discovering the solution required the development of advanced theoretical techniques .
what had been difficult to figure out was how to get electr ons to super conduct .
the basic discovery of b cs was that if the electr ons pair up , those couples could indeed super conduct .
fortunately , the mechanism for such cou pling was known .
although electr ons are negatively charged , and therefore rep el one another , the positive ions that they leave behind when they flow through a metal can medi ate an effective attraction between two electr ons under restrictive conditions ( for example , the metal must be very cold ) .
the suspicion , though , is that this is not the case in the new super conduc tors .
cu pr ates super conduct at much higher temperatures , but , more importantly , they possess some ex otic properties : they are formed by d oping electrical carriers into a host material that is a magne tic insul ator – the last place one would look for a conventional super conduc tor .
and , unlike b cs theory , in which the pa irs are is o trop ic – with identical properties in all directions in space – the pa irs in cu pr ates are strongly an is o trop ic , resem bling a clo ver leaf .
how can one pair electr ons without ions holding them together , thereby enabling higher- temperature super conduc tors ?
while ideas about this abound , new theoretical breakthroughs most likely will be needed to develop the machinery required to solve such electr on- electr on theories , perhaps even involving black holes .
whatever the theory turns out to be , it is certain to revolution ize physics .
lies , dam ned lies , and ai
cambridge – algorithms are as biased as the data they feed on .
and all data are biased .
even “ official ” statistics can not be assumed to stand for objective , eternal “ facts . ”
the figures that governments publish represent society as it is now , through the lens of what those assem bling the data consider to be relevant and important .
the categories and classi fications used to make sense of the data are not neutral .
as algorith m ic decision-making spreads to a wider range of policymaking areas , it is shedding a harsh light on the social biases that once lur ked in the shadows of the data we collect .
by taking existing structures and processes to their logical extremes , artificial intelligence ( ai ) is forcing us to confront the kind of society we have created .
the problem is not just that computers are designed to think like corporations , as my university of cambridge colleague jon nie pen n has argued . it is also that computers think like economists .
an ai , after all , is as inf alli ble a version of homo econom ic us as one can imagine .
it is a rationally calculating , log ically consistent , end s- oriented agent capable of achieving its desired outcomes with fin ite comput ational resources .
when it comes to “ maximizing utility , ” they are far more effective than any human .
“ utility ” is to economics what “ ph log ist on ” once was to chemistry .
early chem ists hypo thes ized that combus tible matter contained a hidden element – ph log ist on – that could explain why substances changed form when they burned .
yet , try as they might , scientists never could confirm the hypothesis .
they could not track down ph log ist on for the same reason that economists today can not offer a measure of actual utility .
economists use the concept of utility to explain why people make the choices they do – what to buy , where to invest , how hard to work : everyone is trying to maximize utility in accordance with one ’ s preferences and beliefs about the world , and within the limits posed by scarce income or resources .
despite not existing , utility is a powerful construct .
it seems only natural to suppose that everyone is trying to do as well as they can for themselves .
moreover , economists ’ notion of utility is born of classical utilit ari anism , which aims to secure the greatest amount of good for the greatest number of people .
like modern economists following in the footsteps of john stuart mill , most of those designing algorithms are utilit arians who believe that if a “ good ” is known , then it can be maxim ized .
but this assumption can produce troubling outcomes .
for example , consider how algorithms are being used to decide whether prisoners are deser ving of par ol e .
an important 2017 study finds that algorithms far out perform humans in predicting reci div ism rates , and could be used to reduce the “ j ailing rate ” by more than 40 % “ with no increase in crime rates . ”
in the united states , then , a is could be used to reduce a prison population that is disproportionately black .
but what happens when a is take over the par ol e process and african-americans are still being jailed at a higher rate than whites ?
highly efficient algorith m ic decision-making has brought such questions to the fore , forcing us to decide precisely which outcomes should be maxim ized .
do we want merely to reduce the overall prison population , or should we also be concerned about fairness ?
whereas politics allows for fu dg es and compromises to disguise such tradeoffs , computer code requires clarity .
that demand for clarity is making it harder to ignore the structural sources of societal inequities .
in the age of ai , algorithms will force us to recognize how the outcomes of past social and political conflicts have been perpetu ated into the present through our use of data .
thanks to groups such as the ai ethics initiative and the partnership on ai , a broader debate about the ethics of ai has begun to emerge .
but ai algorithms are of course just doing what they are co ded to do .
the real issue extends beyond the use of algorith m ic decision-making in corporate and political governance , and strikes at the ethical foundations of our societies .
while we certainly need to debate the practical and philosophical tradeoffs of maximizing “ utility ” through ai , we also need to engage in self- reflection .
we now must decide if we really want to en code current social arrangements into the decision-making structures of the future .
given the political fracturing currently occurring around the world , this seems like a good moment to write a new script .
a better global framework to end aids
stockholm , geneva – this week , we celebrate the tremendous progress that has been made in the struggle against hiv and aids .
in many countries with strong health systems , hiv is no longer a death sentence , but a chronic condition .
and africa has reached a critical milestone : each year , there are now more africans starting hiv treatment than being infected .
still , even as we celebrate , we must also mour n the 1.1 million people who lost their lives to the disease this year .
hiv still infec ts 6,000 people every day , and aids remains a leading cause of death among children , adolescents , and women in africa .
the movement against aids has inspired all of us to help the people who continue to be left behind , and to commit to ending aids once and for all .
fortunately , we already have the know-how , resources , and , crucially , the political momentum to do this ; and at the high-level meeting on ending aids this year , united nations member states made ambitious commitments that will put us on the fast track toward our goal .
what ’ s more , in september , canada hosted a successful financing conference for the global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , which brought in almost $ 13 billion , repl en ishing the global fund for 201 7- 2019 .
meanwhile , individual countries have increased their domestic investments , and international partners – big and small – have maintained their support , which is how we will reach the $ 26 billion needed for the global aids response in 2020 .
but funding parts of the global health system is not enough .
the international community must take a more holistic view and reinforce a global- response architecture that features a clear division of labor and seam less cooperation among various stakeholders .
ultimately , the goal of such a framework must be to support countries ’ own health systems , by marsh aling public and private actors at all levels in a given country , so that every facility – from the public hospital in the capital to the village clinic – is properly provis ioned .
sweden is proud to continue its support for the global fund ; at the repl en ishment conference in september , it pledged 2.5 billion k ron a ( $ 2 71 million ) .
the global fund is by far the largest multilateral source of financing for efforts to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria ; but just like the global alliance for vaccines and immunization ( now known as gavi , the vaccine alliance ) , it is part of a global architecture , and relies on a range of partners to deliver aid effectively .
so , if country- level support for other glob al-health organizations – such as un aids , the world health organization , and the un development programme – dr ies up , continued progress in the fight against hiv and aids will be at risk .
providing the necessary support will require donors to coordinate with one another , so that all parts of the existing architecture for managing global health issues are adequately funded .
this will then ensure that all countries – and , more importantly , all people – receive the support they need .
un aids is setting a powerful example for international collaboration , by organizing partners around a common 201 6- 2021 strategy to end aids .
this unique and innovative partnership brings together 11 co- sponsor ing un agencies , each with diverse sec tor- specific expertise , and mobil izes various government stakeholders .
partners include business , community , and faith leaders , as well as teachers , judges , members of law enforcement , parliamentarians , and many others outside the health sector whose actions nonetheless affect health outcomes .
one of un aids ’ tasks is to encourage national governments to keep aids high on their public-health agendas , and to invest in joint efforts to end the disease .
it is also the only organization with a mandate to set norms and standards for the global response to aids , which means that it plays a key role in the current international framework .
un aids maintains a close partnership with the global fund .
it has a presence in more than 80 countries , and its regional teams provide technical support and strategic information , which helps the global fund direct its grants to the right programs , locations , and populations at sufficient scale .
moreover , it helps to create the social , legal , and political conditions for people to use health services , not least by promoting gender equality and ensuring that populations at higher risk of contracting hiv do not face adverse discrimination .
un aids engages with civil society at all levels , by leveraging the international aids response to promote equality , dignity , and human rights around the world .
yet , despite its broad mandate and many functions , un aids lacks adequate resources , which threatens past achievements and future programs alike , and poses a danger to people and communities that depend on the lifes aving support the organization helps facilitate .
sweden and un aids will work together to ensure that the international aids response continues to transform – and save – lives .
we will safeguard and empower women and girls , and make sure that vulnerable populations ’ voices are heard .
but , at the same time , the international community must strengthen the existing framework for managing glob al-health issues .
as swedish prime minister st ef an l ö f ven said in montreal in september : “ today we are focusing on the global fund , but tomorrow let ’ s not forget to provide sufficient funding for the entire global health architecture . ”
it is time for the international community to meet that challenge , by pledging to support our global health infrastructure , so that no agency – and no country or person – is left out .
aids , ncds , and the ab cs of organizing
geneva – non- communicable diseases ( ncds ) , like heart disease , stroke , cancer , diabetes , and chronic lung disease , are responsible for 70 % of all deaths .
there is in contro ver tible evidence that tobacco use , in activity , unhealthy diets , and excessive alcohol consumption increase the odds of dying prematurely from an ncd .
and yet , despite widespread knowledge of the risks , global obesity goes largely unchecked , while tobacco and alcohol use continue to rise .
it is against this backdrop that networks of ncd alliances met december 9- 11 at the second global ncd alliance forum , in the united arab emirates .
as they search for solutions to bring ncds under control , they should look for inspiration to the movement to fight aids .
people living with and affected by hiv continue to drive response efforts , and their unique form of mobilization has been instrumental to progress .
while the battle is not over , aids activists know that it can be won .
similarly , a mobilized ncd movement can turn the tide against that epidemic .
yet , in 2015 , richard hor ton , the editor of the lanc et , described the ncd community as needing an “ electric shock to its semi- com at ose soul . ”
he added : “ but who has the courage to deliver it ? ”
we believe there are lessons to be learned from aids activists .
as global attention focuses on ncd prevention , those seeking to control preventable illnesses should look to the “ ab cs ” of aids organizing for guidance .
the first letter that the ncd community should consider is “ a , ” for activism .
anyone over 40 will recall images of aids activists performing “ di e- ins ” at scientific meetings around the world .
in the united states , aids activists took to the streets , even shutting down the food and drug administration ’ s headquarters for a day in october 1988 .
globally , activists lobbied governments and pharmaceutical companies to make medicines more affordable .
this activism continues , and should serve as a model for action on ncds .
next , the ncd community must adopt a bolder approach to budgets – the “ b ” of the aids movement ’ s strategy .
civic organizing and grassroots activism may fuel early energies , but organizing and sustaining a broad-based coalition takes money .
the aids movement was clear about this from the beginning , and lobbied for resources to support its advocacy and accountability effectively .
“ c ” is for coalitions : the aids movement was quick to understand that progress would come only with diverse support .
activists established links between people living with hiv and those with other concerns , such as women ’ s rights , intellectual property , nutrition , and housing .
the aids movement also understood that a holistic response to the epidemic was essential .
thus , “ d , ” the underlying determinants of health , was to draw attention to the inter connectivity of the drivers of challenge .
for example , lobbying education leaders to keep girls in school longer has contributed to providing young people with the knowledge and agency to make smart decisions about when and with whom to negotiate safe sex .
similarly , links were forged between groups working on poverty , gender , and nutrition – factors that played a role in driving the aids crisis .
ncds are no less isolated in their caus ality , and similarly require a multi- sector approach to prevention .
engagement – “ e ” – was what helped the aids movement become so influential .
by borrowing from the playbook of the disability rights movement , which championed the mantra “ nothing about us without us , ” aids advocates demanded representation on the bodies established to address the disease .
for example , un aids remains the only united nations agency with seats on its board for representatives from civil society .
this norm is so power fully embedded in the aids movement that it would be almost unthinkable for an aids meeting to take place without representation from the community .
disease prevention movements must also develop persuasive narratives , and “ f ” – framing the issue – was essential to the aids community ’ s effort to gain support from political leaders .
in particular , access to aids treatment was framed as a matter of economic justice .
framing the narrative this way led to a dramatic reduction in the price of medicines , so much so that more than half of people living with hiv in low- and middle-income countries are in treatment .
an equally important framing issue for aids , which is highly relevant to the ncds movement , is that of responsibility .
the aids community worked hard to shift the focus from blaming individuals ’ lifestyle choices to putting the on us on the state for providing health care and removing legal discrimination .
in the aids debate , gender – our movement ’ s “ g ” – was a significant fo cal point .
hiv was initially seen as a “ gay disease , ” and gender identity was embedded in the dna of the aids movement early on .
gender dimensions of ncds are no less important ; one only has to consider how alcohol and tobacco are marke ted to understand that .
gender , therefore , must become a focus of ncds prevention efforts .
finally , “ h ” – human rights – was the bedrock of the aids response .
campaigns were launched against discrimination in work places , schools , and health centers .
strategic litigation helped ensure equality under the law .
the aids movement refused to hold major conferences in countries with punitive laws against people living with hiv .
the ncd movement could take a similar t ack by , for example , refusing to meet in countries that fail to restrict advertising of junk food to children .
the list of aids lessons could continue throughout the alph ab et , but ending with “ h ” is apt , given that human rights drove the response , and should drive the response to ncds .
poverty , exclusion , and social and economic marginalization put people at higher risk for hiv .
it is no different for ncds .
the early mainstream reaction to the aids epidemic was to ask , “ why don ’ t those people make better choices ? ”
the aids movement made clear that that was the wrong question .
today , with 70 % of the planet at risk of premature death from preventable illnesses , “ those people ” are many of us .
we are a stronger movement when we join forces .
the views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of un aids .
aid works
new york – the critics of foreign aid are wrong .
a growing flood of data shows that death rates in many poor countries are falling sharply , and that a id- supported programs for health-care delivery have played a key role .
aid works ; it saves lives .
one of the newest studies , by gab ri el dem omb yn es and sof ia tro m m l er ov a , shows that kenya ’ s infant mortality ( deaths under the age of one year ) has plummeted in recent years , and attributes a significant part of the gain to the massive up take of anti- malaria bed nets .
these findings are consistent with an important study of malaria death rates by chr is mur ray and others , which similarly found a significant and rapid decline in mal ari a- caused deaths after 2004 in sub-saharan africa resulting from a id- supported mal ari a- control measures .
let ’ s turn back the clock a dozen years .
in 2000 , africa was struggling with three major epidemics .
aids was killing more than two million people each year , and spreading rapidly .
malaria was surging , owing to the paras ite ’ s growing resistance to the standard medicine at the time .
tuberculosis was also soaring , partly as a result of the aids epidemic and partly because of the emergence of drug-resistant tb .
in addition , hundreds of thousands of women were dying in childbirth each year , because they had no access to safe deli veries in a clinic or hospital , or to emergency help when needed .
these interconnected crises prompted action .
the united nations ’ member states adopted the millennium development goals in september 2000 .
three of the eight mdgs – reductions in children ’ s deaths , maternal deaths , and epidemic diseases – focus directly on health .
likewise , the world health organization issued a major call to scale up development assistance for health .
and african leaders , led by nigeria ’ s president at the time , ol us eg un ob as an jo , took on the challenge of battling the continent ’ s epidemics .
nigeria hosted two landmark summits , on malaria in 2000 and on aids in 2001 , which were a crucial spur to action .
at the second of these summits , then- un secretary-general kofi annan called for the creation of the global fund to fight aids , tb , and malaria .
the global fund began operations in 2002 , financing prevention , treatment , and care programs for the three diseases .
high-income countries also finally agreed to reduce the debt owed by heavily indebted poor countries , allowing them to spend more on health care and less on crippling payments to creditors .
the united states also took action , adopting two major programs , one to fight aids and the other to fight malaria .
in 2005 , the un millennium project recommended specific ways to scale up primary health care in the poorest countries , with the high-income countries helping to cover the costs that the poorest could not pay by themselves .
the un general assembly backed many of the project ’ s recommendations , which were then implemented in numerous low-income countries .
donor aid did start to rise sharply as a result of all of these efforts .
in 1995 , total aid for health care was around $ 7. 9 billion .
this inadequate level then cre pt up slowly , to $ 1 0.5 billion by 2000 .
the expanded funding allowed major campaigns against aids , tb , and malaria ; a major scaling up of safe childbirth ; and increased vaccine coverage , including the near- eradication of polio .
many innovative public-health techniques were developed and adopted .
with one billion people living in high-income countries , total aid in 2010 amounted to around $ 27 per person in the donor countries – a modest sum for them , but a life-saving one for the world ’ s poorest people .
the public-health successes can now be seen on many fronts .
around 12 million children under five years old died in 1990 .
by 2010 , this number had declined to around 7.6 million – still far too high , but definitely an historic improvement .
malaria deaths in children in africa were cut from a peak of around one million in 2004 to around 700,000 by 2010 , and , worldwide , deaths of pregnant women declined by almost half between 1990 and 2010 , from an estimated 5 4 3,000 to 2 8 7,000 .
another $ 10-15 billion in annual aid ( that is , roughly $ 10-15 more per person in the high-income world ) , bringing total aid to around $ 40 billion per year , would enable still greater progress to be made in the coming years .
the mdgs for health could be achieved even in many of the world ’ s poorest countries .
unfortunately , at every step during the past decade – and still today – a chorus of aid skeptics has argued against the needed help .
they have repeatedly claimed that aid does not work ; that the funds will simply be wasted ; that anti- malaria bed nets can not be given to the poor , since the poor won ’ t use them ; that the poor will not take anti- aids medicines properly ; and so on and so forth .
their attacks have been relentless ( i ’ ve faced my share ) .
the opponents of aid are not merely wrong .
their vocal antagonism still threatens the funding that is needed to get the job done , to cut child and maternal deaths by enough to meet the mdgs by 2015 in the poorest countries , and to continue after that to ensure that all people everywhere finally have access to basic health services .
a decade of significant progress in health outcomes has proved the skeptics wrong .
aid for health care works – and works magn ific ently – to save and improve lives .
let us continue to support these life-saving programs , which uphold the dignity and well-being of all people on the planet .
the aiib and global governance
hong kong – despite official american and japanese opposition , 57 countries have opted to be among the founding members of the china- led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) .
regardless of what n ay say ers believe , this remarkable turn of events can only benefit global economic governance .
according to former us treasury secretary larry summers , the aiib ’ s establishment “ may be remembered as the moment the united states lost its role as the under writer of the global economic system . ”
asia development bank ( ad b ) president take hiko n ak ao , by contrast , does not believe that there will be a “ major change to the world of development finance , ” though he conceded that “ there can be interpretations as to the symbolic meaning of this . ”
who is right will depend largely on the decisions that the aiib ’ s top shareholders make regarding its operating structure .
so far , the aiib has not sought to amend the principle that the largest contributor to a multilateral organization gets the largest say in running it .
just as the us dominates the world bank and europe leads the international monetary fund , china will head the aiib .
this implies a larger global leadership role for china – which the world , including its traditional powers , should welcome .
after all , global leadership is not just a matter of might ; it also reflects the provision of global public goods .
when world war ii ended , the us , aside from being the world ’ s leading military and economic power , was the largest provider of such goods , through the marshall plan , support for the united nations , and contributions to the bretton woods institutions ( the international monetary fund and the world bank ) .
but massive debts have lately undermined the ability of the us – not to mention europe and japan – to continue making such large contributions .
in fact , china might have done so within the bretton woods institutions , were the distribution of voting rights within them not skewed so heavily toward the incumbents , who still enjoy veto power .
for example , china has a 3.8 % voting share in the imf and world bank , even though it accounts for more than 12 % of world gdp .
the united kingdom and france – which are one-third the size of china – each have a 4.3 % share .
with the incumbents unwilling to bring china ’ s voting share in line with its economic might , china had little choice but to launch its own institution .
but the aiib has its own objectives , which do not align precisely with those of , say , the world bank .
specifically , the bank is a critical element of china ’ s “ one belt , one road ” strategy , which encomp asses two initiatives : the over land silk road economic belt , connecting china to europe , and the 2 1st century maritime silk road , linking china to southeast asia , the middle east , and europe .
while the us “ piv ots ” to the east , china is pir ou e tting west , applying the lessons of its development to its trading partners across eurasia and beyond .
perhaps the most important of these lessons is that connectivity is vital to economic growth .
over the last three decades , the construction of roads , railways , ports , airports , and telecommunications systems in china has fostered trade , attracted investment , and , by linking the country ’ s land- locked western and southern provinces to its more prosperous coastal areas , helped to reduce regional disparities .
china ’ s silk road initiative , which aims to boost prosperity among china ’ s trading partners largely through infrastructure investment , is a logical next step – one on which china is spending significantly .
in addition to its initial contribution of up to $ 50 billion to the aiib , china has committed $ 40 billion to its silk road fund , $ 32 billion to the china development bank , and $ 30 billion to the export- import bank of china .
according to estimates by h s bc , the “ one belt , one road ” initiative could end up costing as much as $ 2 32 billion – just under two-thirds of the world bank ’ s balance sheet in 2014 .
the $ 100 billion aiib will play a central role in this effort .
given massive global demand for infrastructure finance – which , according to ad b estimates , will amount to $ 8 trillion in asia alone over the next decade – the aiib should not be considered a threat to the world bank , the ad b , or other multilateral lenders .
nonetheless , it will compete with them , owing to its distinctive – and probably more efficient – approach to lending .
in fact , the aiib ’ s operations will most likely resemble those of the world bank in the 1960s , when engineers with hand s- on development experience dominated the staff and could design lending conditions that worked for borrowers .
in the late 1980s , the world bank began to implement the washington consensus , pushing for economic and political liberalization , without sufficient regard for local political or economic realities .
the result was conditional lending , with terms – created mostly by policy won ks – that many developing-country borrowers could not meet ( at least not without hiring consul tants to adjust their official reporting ) .
the ac id test of the aiib ’ s effectiveness will be its governance model .
one failing of the bretton wood institutions is their full-time shareholder boards of directors , which tend to undermine effectiveness by micro- managing and often requ esting conflicting lending conditions .
the world bank has wasted far too much time re- organizing itself under various presidents , without recognizing the fundamental problem with its own governance structure .
even if the aiib does not deliver as promised , its establishment is an important reminder that in a fast- changing world , economic governance can not remain stagnant .
if western leaders really do believe in innovation , competition , and meritocracy , they should welcome the aiib .
a ip ac in decline
madrid – the american israel public affairs committee ’ s lobbying power in the united states is undeniable .
but a ip ac ’ s supposed ability to control us policy decisions is a pot em kin village myth , cultivated by friends and rivals alike .
in fact , thanks to israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu , a ip ac ’ s influence is under threat – though netanyahu himself will be just fine .
claims about a ip ac ’ s clout have long shaped analysis of us foreign policy .
for example , steve wal t and john me ar she imer , in their notorious essay “ the israel lobby , ” asserted that a ip ac manufactured the iraq war .
the truth about a ip ac – that it is influential , but far from inv ul n erable – has recently been revealed , both to the public and to the group itself .
having been pushed by netanyahu into an un win n able fight against us president barack obama ’ s administration over its nuclear deal with iran , a ip ac is now crumbling under the weight of its own hubris .
in fact , a ip ac has never overcome resolute opposition from an american president , particularly in a matter of us national security .
it failed to stop jimmy carter from selling f- 15 eag le fighters to saudi arabia in 1978 , or to prevent ronald reagan from supplying aw ac s re con na issance planes to the saudis three years later .
and its 1991 battle with president george h.w . bush over the link age of us loan guarantees for israel with prime minister yit z ak sham ir ’ s support of the 1991 madrid peace conference – one of bush ’ s key legacies – ended in defeat .
against this background , a ip ac should have known that its attempt , in close cooperation with obama ’ s republican opponents , to block the iran nuclear deal ( one of obama ’ s most important achievements ) would fail .
indeed , obama even used a tactic similar to that of george h.w . bush to win the day .
just as bush openly denounced the “ thousand lobbyists ” working the h alls of the us congress against a vital national interest , obama said in a conference call that his critics “ would be opposed to any deal with iran , ” and called out a ip ac ’ s $ 20 million advertising campaign against the agreement .
he also put a ip ac in the same category as the republicans who “ were responsible ” for leading the us into the iraq war .
for a ip ac – which has traditionally relied on a broad coalition of social and political forces in the us that view israel ’ s security as both a moral cause and a vital national interest – this is not any old defeat .
the republican- backed crus ade against a key agreement negotiated by a democratic president , with his party ’ s overwhelming support , has threatened the bipartisan foundations of israel ’ s cause in america .
of course , the nuclear deal involved more than just the us and iran .
a ip ac was opposing an international agreement that six major world powers – china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us – had already signed and that the united nations had approved .
even some of israel ’ s staun chest supporters in congress were unlikely to deal a potentially devastating blow to america ’ s international credibility , and the idea that the negotiating countries would all agree to re open the talks to produce a “ better deal ” was sheer fantasy .
yet that is the objective that netanyahu set for a ip ac .
the row over the iran deal is bound to be a watershed moment for american jews , among whom sharp divisions have formed .
indeed , the american jewish committee 2015 survey of american jewish opinion reports the emergence of “ two diver ging jewish sub- communities , ” with a growing number of jews feeling alienated by the organizations that claim to represent them .
a ip ac represents a striking anomaly in the life of american jews .
it is increasingly identified with the republican agenda and israel ’ s evangel ical christian supporters , even though polls have repeatedly shown that jews are america ’ s most liberal ethnic group .
the truth is that american jews largely opposed the iraq war .
they overwhelmingly vote for the democratic party .
they define their religion as moderate and liberal , with many upholding gay rights and abortion , both anathema to evangel ical christians .
the majority of american jews even support the creation of a palestinian state .
and , although they are far from united on the iran deal , the agreement ’ s supporters out number its opponents .
much of the blame for the damage that has been done – to a ip ac , american jewish communities , and even the us political process – falls on netanyahu .
but he is unlikely to face retribution for any of it .
on the contrary , the obama administration has already begun the discussions it promised on upgrading israel ’ s strategic capabilities .
as arab countries throughout the middle east mel t down – with increasingly significant spillover effects in the west – israel continues to represent a stable regional partner for the us .
more dangerous , netanyahu could achieve his next goal : preventing a strategic détente between the us and iran that would enable cooperation in resolving major regional conflicts , from yemen to syria .
an odd coalition of iranian radicals , a ip ac , the saudi -led sunni alliance , the israeli government , and us politicians from both parties have already compelled obama to promise additional sanctions on iran for its sponsor ship of terrorism .
as a result , america ’ s cold war with iran is likely to persist .
the dawn of climate- friendly air travel
montreal – as the world becomes increasingly interconnected , demand for air travel is growing , with more than 30,000 new large aircraft expected to take to the sk ies in the next few years .
but if we are to sustain growth in air travel without aggrav ating global warming , we must quickly reduce avi ation- related co2 emissions , which are substantial and not covered by the paris climate agreement that more than 190 countries agreed to last december .
fortunately , now is the perfect time to decou ple aviation emissions from air- travel growth .
representatives from 19 1 countries convened in montreal this week for the 3 9 th session of the united nations ’ international civil aviation organization ; after decades of wr ang ling , they have agreed to an avi ation- specific climate agreement .
the new ic ao framework aims for “ carbon- neutral growth ” in international aviation from 2020 onward , and has as its centerpiece a global market-based measure ( g m b m ) to help airlines afford ably cap their net emissions at 2020 levels .
when implemented , it will be the first carbon- emissions cap on a global industry that does not notic e ably increase costs for consumers .
and airlines will purchase emissions reductions from other economic sectors , thus fun n eling billions of dollars into low-carbon development around the world .
for the first six years , the new framework will apply only to flights between countries that have voluntarily adopted it , which means that the ic ao will have to encourage adequate participation for the program to be effective .
this op t- in approach has some critics , but whether a program is categor ized as “ voluntary ” or “ mandatory ” is beside the point , because international accords generally apply only to the sovereign countries that have decided to join them .
some 64 countries have already signaled their willingness to sign on to the ic ao agreement , and together they account for nearly 80 % of expected growth in co2 emissions above 2020 levels .
that isn ’ t 100 % , but it ’ s a great start , and we can expect more countries to join when they see others reaping the benefits of low-carbon development .
the airlines themselves will welcome a coherent global framework that establishes clear and predictable compliance metrics , rather than a regulatory patch work that differs from country to country and complic ates international operations .
to minimize compliance costs – and because environmental sustainability is now a key competitive mar ker for customers and investors alike – airlines will likely encourage the countries where they do business to participate in the ic ao program .
the new agreement provides an enormous opportunity to prevent the emission of 2.5 billion tons of co2 in the first 15 years – the equivalent of taking roughly 35 million cars off the road every year the program is in force .
the agreement will also spur major manufacturers such as bo eing , air bus , bombar di er , and emb ra er – which are already investing in quie ter , more fuel- efficient aircraft and efficiency improvements for existing models – to develop cleaner technologies that will allow them to purchase fewer emissions off sets .
however , the framework decided in montreal is not complete , and crucial details need to be worked out quickly so that airlines can begin to plan how they will meet the new environmental targets .
developed countries have already offered to help implement the g m b m , which , it is hoped , will pave the way for investments in emerging economies that are becoming new aviation power houses .
if the countries can leap fro g over old technologies , they can become new leaders in carbon- smart flying .
they should seize the opportunity before them and join the ic ao framework so that their manufacturers have a clear and predictable path forward .
at the paris climate talks last year , we witnessed the power of global collective action to address climate change .
no fewer than 18 7 countries – large and small , developed and developing – announced emissions- reduction targets in the months before the conference , which created the momentum to reach a landmark accord .
with the paris climate agreement on track to enter into force in the coming months – more rapidly than anyone ever thought possible – we still have that momentum .
the ic ao agreement is the next wave in the international battle against climate change .
together , the two agreements will boost our chances of delivering environmentally sustainable economic growth .
by cleaning up our carbon footprint now , future generations of air travelers from all countries will be able to look out their window onto a healthy planet .
europe ’ s air po cal yp se
asia , and china in particular , is a favorite target for criticism .
indeed , it sometimes seems as if no major environmental conference is complete without a presentation by european policymakers on their continent ’ s supposed “ best practices , ” which the rest of the world should emulate .
when it comes to air pollution , however , europe might consider doing less talking and more listening .
air pollution is a growing concern across europe .
the world health organization has called it the continent ’ s “ single largest environmental health risk , ” estimating that 90 % of europe ’ s citizens are exposed to outdoor pollution that exceeds who air- quality guidelines .
in 2010 , some 600,000 european citizens died prematurely because of outdoor and indoor air pollution , and the economic costs have been put at $ 1.6 trillion , roughly 9 % of the european union ’ s gdp .
london and paris suffer from particularly severe air- quality problems .
nitrogen dioxide levels in some parts of london regularly reach 2-3 times the recommended limit .
in the united kingdom , air pollution kills some 2 9,000 people a year , putting it second only to smoking as a cause of premature death .
paris may be even worse off ; in march , after air- pollution levels surpassed shanghai ’ s , the city imposed a partial driving ban and introduced free public transportation .
sadly , europe ’ s policymakers do not seem up to the challenge .
george osborne , the uk ’ s chancellor of the exchequer , has argued against british leadership in the fight against climate change .
“ we are not going to save the planet by shutting down our steel mil ls , aluminum sm el ters , and paper manufacturers , ” he declared in 2011 .
osborne is not alone .
with european politicians arguing that introducing environmental safeguards will hurt the eu ’ s already- weakened economy , it comes as little surprise that measures to limit air pollution fall far short of the mark .
the eu ’ s proposed standards regulating toxic emissions from coal plants are even less strict than china ’ s , green peace reports .
yet various european politicians have called for wat ering them down even further , with hungary suggesting that they be scr apped altogether .
to be sure , air pollution levels in asia are truly worrisome .
the continent is home to nine of the world ’ s ten most polluted countries , according to yale university ’ s 2014 air quality ranking .
new delhi is ranked as the most polluted city on earth , with air pollution exceeding safe levels by a factor of 60 .
owing to beijing ’ s unhealthy air , foreign companies pay a “ hardship bonus ” of up to 30 % to employees working there .
but at least policymakers in asia have recognized the problem and are taking steps to address it .
china , for example , has declared a “ war on pollution . ”
by 2017 , beijing – once dubbed “ gre y j ing ” by the international media – will spend some cn¥ 7 60 billion ( $ 1 21 billion ) to combat air pollution .
at the heart of china ’ s measures are improved public transportation , green trade , and a revision of the energy mix .
the government has decided to install bus stops every 500 meters in city centers , reduce tariffs to 5 % or less for a list of 54 environmental goods , and decom mission many outdated and inefficient coal plants .
the share of non- fossil fuels in primary energy consumption is expected to increase to 20 % by 2030 .
these targets are likely to be rig or ously implemented , given strong political support from the very top .
meanwhile , in india , the state governments in gujarat , ma har ash tra , and tamil nad u are about to launch the world ’ s first cap-and-trade schemes for particul ates .
other parts of asia are also taking steps to improve air quality .
vietnam aims to construct eight urban rail lines in the coming years .
bangkok , which has been tackling air pollution since the 1990s , has planted 400,000 trees .
and japan is offering subsidies for hydrogen cars and creating new pe de stri an- only areas .
europe , as one of the world ’ s wealthiest regions , ought to be at the forefront of the effort to promote environmental sustainability .
when it comes to air pollution , however , europe ’ s policymakers should stop pre aching to others and focus on fixing their own problems .
a japanese met am orph osis ?
os aka – yesterday ’ s landslide gener al- election victory by the democratic party of japan ( dpj ) termin ated the one- par ty- dominated system that the cat ch- all liberal democratic party ( ldp ) has controlled almost without interrup tion since 195 5 .
for most of the last decade , the dpj was not seen as a viable alternative to the ldp , although they appeared to form a pseu do- two- party system .
twenty years after the cold war ’ s end , japan will at last have a post-cold war system of government .
the japanese public , even now , remains uncertain about the dpj ’ s ability to govern and is skeptical of its rosy programs of wealth redistribution , which lack solid funding .
the public is also fully aware that the ideologically fragmented dpj lacks a pragmatic , coherent foreign and security policy
yet the dpj will form the next government because of public disg ust with the ldp .
for the last four years , the ldp had shown itself to be utterly un responsive to the key issues of popular concern : pensions , unemployment , and the fra ying social safety net .
moreover , the ldp was plagued by a string of minor scandals and consistent bun gling .
the ldp ’ s need for three different prime ministers in the space of little more than a year made plain that the party ’ s power nucle us had mel ted down .
once in power , the dpj will immediately confront the massive bureaucracy and entrenched mandar ins , which usually sabotage any efforts at administrative reform that threatens their power and vested interests .
indeed , immediately after the election , the budget estimates for the next fiscal year are due .
the figures that will be presented are the result of a lengthy process , in which the bureaucracy closely consulted with ldp .
so , without breaking the regular budget cycle , the dpj will be forced to implement not only the supplem entary budget drawn up by the ldp , but will also be stuck with next year ’ s budget , which embodies ldp policies that the dpj has denounced .
as a result , the dpj has announced plans to revo ke the ldp ’ s guidelines for a ceiling on budget requests so as to formulate its own budget from scratch . it will also revise the supplem entary budget as well .
but time is short , and few of new dpj lawmakers possess the legislative experience and budgetary expertise to make that happen .
to gain control of the mandar ins , the dpj plans to place 100 lawmakers in the ministries ’ top leadership , as well as three dozen political appointees to policy staff s in the office of the prime minister .
unfortunately , the dpj scr apped an ld p- sponsored civil- service reform bill , which would have allowed the dpj to replace mandar ins with an army of political appointees .
the dpj , despite its manifesto , seems unprepared to tame the mandar ins , and so may be forced to rely on them .
the ascend ency of the mandar ins is a legacy of japan ’ s unique historical development dating back to its early modern period .
unlike in europe , japan developed its state before building a strong civil society .
indeed , full-fledged “ society ” - building started only after the 18 68 me ij i restoration , which tipped the balance of power definitively in favor of the state .
as a result , the mandar ins survived wwii and the postwar american occupation relatively und am aged , and they will strive to survive the dpj government as well .
ldp lawmakers and mandar ins developed a routine in which mandar ins drafted cab ine t- sponsored bills , ldp lawmakers checked the bills , and the two together fin alized legislative draf ts before they were introduced to the diet ( parliament ) .
since the ldp , recently with a coalition partner , controlled the diet , the legislative process was simply the interaction between ldp lawmakers and mandar ins , centered in the ldp ’ s headquarters .
the diet ’ s role was merely pr o form a .
indeed , under the ld p -led one- par ty- dominant system , this extra- constitutional mechanism became an integral part of japan ’ s government polity .
the dpj government will col li de head-on with the mandar ins , partly because the party will find it hard to recruit sufficiently qualified policymakers .
the mandar ins have maintained their privileged position in this regard , owing partly to the tax system , which prevents the emergence of non-profit institutions , especially think tanks , where independent policy expertise can be forged .
moreover , perhaps in anticipation of a change in power , the mandar ins have moved forward the annual personnel changes in the major ministries ’ top administrative positions .
and what of the ldp ?
having fallen from power , it will lose its control of the redistribution of government funds .
unable to pay off its constituencies , disintegration looms , for the ldp has never been a party with entrenched grass - roots support , but instead operates as a machine of power and redistribution through a web of insiders across the country ’ s industrial sectors , occupational associations , and local communities .
only by recruiting new blood and re organizing itself with a solid ideological platform will an ldp comeback be possible .
the dpj has even weaker grass - roots support , so the mandar ins will most likely use their standard techniques of divide and rule to ca jol e the party by teaching it to mim ic the ldp in using state money and contracts to under write its major constituencies , such as labor unions and other interest groups .
the birth of the dpj government can yet be a turning point .
a major power shift in favor of “ society ” has taken place .
if the dpj can break free of mandar in control by centr alizing policy formation in the office of the prime minister , as it intends , japan can emerge as a more resilient democracy with a full-fledged two- party system and greater willingness to assume an international leadership role .
a jobless recovery ?
cambridge – who will suffer the longest and the most from the implosion in 2008-2009 of wall street and the ensuing world recession ?
not the bankers and financiers who created the disaster .
some financiers , like bern ard mad off , will go to prison for fraud .
but , although mad off was only the tip of the iceberg of rampant financial mal fe as ance , most suspect financiers need not fear arrest , either because their behavior merely skir ted the law , or because financial im propr iety more subtle than outright fraud is often difficult to prove .
some bank bosses will retire in shame , but with huge payments to ease their pain – such as the $ 55 million golden par ach ute handed to bank of america ’ s ken le w is , with his , and the £ 25 million pension best owed on royal bank of scotland ’ s f red go d win .
but , buoyed by government bailout money , guarantees , and low interest rates , many banks have again begun to pay their top managers huge bonuses while fighting vigorously against reforms designed to restrain their risk-taking and compensation .
the big losers from this economic disaster are workers in the advanced countries that bought into the laissez-faire flexibility of american- style capitalism .
from 2007 to october 2009 , the united states lost nearly eight million jobs , which reduced the employ ment- population ratio from 63 % to 5 8.5 % .
the unemployment rate at the end of 2009 was above 10 % , duration of joblessness was the longest since the great depression , millions had had their working hours cut , and millions more were too discouraged by a lack of jobs to seek work .
advanced europe , canada , and japan also suffered major job losses that will last for a long time .
spain , which allows for widespread temporary contracts , has had the biggest increase in unemployment , because spanish workers can be fired as quickly as those in the us .
some countries – for example , germany , sweden , and south korea – have “ hidden ” their joblessness by paying firms to keep workers on the payroll .
this can work in the short term , but it can not be sustained over time .
in the us , there was a jobless recovery under president bill clinton until the do t .com boom in the latter part of the 1990 ’ s , and there was a jobless recovery under george w. bush in the wake of the 2001 slowdown .
in the early 1990 ’ s , sweden suffered a huge recession precip itated by a housing bubble and a banking crisis . its unemployment rate rose from 1.8 % in 1990 to 9. 6 % in 1994 , before bott oming out at 5 % in 2001 .
six teen years after the crisis , the unemployment rate was 6. 2 % – more than triple the rate in 1990 .
in 1997 , korea suffered not only from the asian financial crisis , but also from insistence by the us and the international monetary fund that it raise interest rates and undertake “ washington consensus ” - style reforms to receive aid .
employment recovered , but primarily in “ non- regular ” jobs with limited benefits , low wages , and little job security .
inequality in korea rose from moderate levels to second highest ( behind the us ) among advanced oecd countries .
weakness in the job market takes a huge toll on economic and personal well-being .
young people seeking their first jobs and experienced workers who lose jobs in a weak job market suffer economic losses that will last their entire lives .
studies of happiness show that unemployment reduces happiness by as much as the loss of a family member .
it is difficult to see the us re- at taining full employment anytime soon .
from 1993 to 1998 , the us created millions of jobs , which raised the employment rate by 5. 4 percentage points .
if employment began rising at this rate in 2010 , it would take until 2015 before it reached its pre- recession level .
and slow recovery in the us will drag down recovery in other advanced countries , reducing their employment as well .
a long , painful period of high unemployment runs counter to what most experts believed the flexible us economic model would ever produce .
from the early 1990 ’ s on , many analysts viewed america ’ s weak uni onization , at- will employment , limited legal job protection , and high job turnover as major factors in achieving a lower unemployment rate than most eu countries .
many oecd countries initiated various kinds of flexibility reforms in the hope of improving their economies along us lines .
the view that flexibility is the key factor in employment is no longer tenable .
in its 2009 employment outlook , the oecd took a hard look at its favored policy reforms and found them deficient in helping countries adjust to a finan ce- driven recession .
according to the oecd , “ there does not appear to be any strong reason to expect that recent structural reforms mean that oecd labor markets are now substantially less sensitive to severe economic downturns . ”
so the lesson from the recession is clear .
the weak re ed in capitalism is not the labor market , but the financial market .
at worst , labor-market failures impose modest inefficiency costs on society , whereas capital- market failures harm society greatly , with workers , rather than the perpetrators of financial disaster , suffering the most .
moreover , globalization means that the us capital market ’ s failure spreads misery around the world .
we owe it to workers victim ized by this recession to reinvent finance so that it works to enrich the real economy , instead of enriching only the financiers .
this means changing the incentives and rules that govern the financial sector .
since other countries ’ economies and jobs are also at stake , they owe it to their citizens to press the us to deliver meaningful financial reforms .
france ’ s mid summer night ’ s dream
paris – bas til le day , the french national holiday , was glorious this year .
the military par ade , dominated by the celebration of “ victory ” in mali and the joint participation of african and united nations troops , had the perfec tion of a gr acious , albeit muscular , bal let .
the e i ff el tower imbu ed the evening with its magic .
paris , in case anyone had any lingering doubts , remains the capital of the world – or so it seemed for a night .
the mel anch ol ia that began to seize france many years ago was all but forgotten .
the celebration of the glory of the past , mixed with popular english s ong s of the present , seemed to indicate renewed national confidence .
what was the meaning of this moment of grace ?
was it purely the product of a collective delusion , an emotional pot em kin village of sorts , encouraged , if not conceived , by the authorities to restore some level of self- assurance among france ’ s depressed citizens ?
even if the positive emotions remain only fle eting ( as seems most likely ) , they were real and palpable .
the french seemed to be in the mood to celebrate .
of course , it could simply have been the weather ; a gor ge ous summer has finally settled in after a miserable spring .
but it might also have been one of those natural turning points , a collective and spontaneous decision to say : “ enough of depression , let ’ s move on . ”
we french may not be what we used to be , the celebr ants seemed to be saying , but we are still much more than people think we are .
we have a great revolutionary past that still conve ys universal values – liberty , equality , frater nity – and an army that , as in mali , continues to make a difference in the world .
one can draw two lessons from this collective form of escap ism .
the first is that , beyond the many layers of depression and distrust in france , there is potential for a new and collective departure .
this would require , of course , less cynical political elites who can transcend their petty ambitions and divisions for the sake of the country .
the second lesson , even more obvious , is that reality can not be changed with a simple public spectacle .
france is not imperial rome , where pan em et cir cen ses made a fundamental difference .
it is a weakened democracy mired in an economic and social crisis so deep that it ver ges on becoming an identity crisis .
the proof was provided by a third traditional event on bas til le day , between the morning ’ s military par ade and the evening ’ s music and fire works : president françois hollande ’ s speech to the nation , which took the form of an interview with two prominent journalists .
he , too , was in a reassuring mood .
according to hollande , the economic upturn – la re prise – had just started , and hope was around the corner .
his tone and message had changed .
he was no longer the “ normal man ” of his election campaign and tenure until now ; instead , he tried to present himself , like his predecessor , nicolas sarkozy , as a super hero .
of course , given his personality and low public- approval ratings , his address was the least convincing event of the day .
who could have said with certainty that the economic upturn announced by hollande was real rather than aspir ational ?
beyond his message ’ s wishful thinking , the public ’ s reaction to the mess eng er was a mixture of dis belief and indifference .
seeing the behavior of friends , all french , listening with me to hollande , i was reminded of another moment .
it was december 31 , 1989 , and i was in the soviet union .
i had found myself in a restaurant in the old city of su z dal , listening to president mikhail gorbachev ’ s “ new year wishes . ”
but i was alone in paying attention to him .
the restaurant ’ s customers , like my french friends now , could not have ca red less .
their president had become background noise .
has hollande become , in this sense , a french gorbachev ?
for the left and the greens , he is close to being a tra itor .
these voters chose him a year ago not only because he was not sarkozy , but because he incar n ated the values of the true left , even if his centrist moderation seemed a bad om en .
voters of the center or even the center-right are disappointed , too , by their president ’ s lack of charisma , if not sheer incompetence .
after a year of hollande , france is witnessing a fundamental political revolution .
during the half-century of the fifth republic , a bipartisan system of left and right has traditionally prevailed .
but now france is becoming a country dominated by a “ tri parti te system ” of more or less equal strength : the left , the right , and the extreme right .
if france wants to capitalize on the positive emotions of bas til le day , it needs much more responsible elites , ready to unite in the fight against unemployment and its causes ( lack of competitiveness and labor-market rigidity ) and consequences ( the rise of populist , non- republican forces ) .
what bas til le day revealed , even briefly and superfic ially , is that the potential to unite france exists .
but doing so requires more than shallow promises .
a kick -off for peace ?
y er ev an – armenian president ser z h s arg sy an ’ s recent invitation to turkish president abdullah gul to visit y er ev an to watch a football match together was historic .
given the two countries ’ long- strained relations , this visit would have been remarkable at any time .
but coming as it does only one month after the alarming russian- georgian confrontation , it may offer real hope that tensions in the volatile caucasus region can be eased .
of course , ancient and difficult issues divide armenia and turkey .
but now is the moment for both countries to put the past aside in order to address their common security concerns .
in the new context set by the war in georgia , the urgency of turkey becoming a real bridge between the nations of the caucasus is not lost on anyone .
this expectation is an inevitable consequence of turkey ’ s geography and history .
situ ated fig ur atively between modernity and tradition , secularism and islam , and democracy and tyranny , turkey also is an actual physical bridge between east and west .
for the peoples of the caucasus , turkey marks our path to europe .
it is a nato member , bordering the three caucasus republics that have nato individual partnership action programs .
it aspires to join the european union , and would bring the eu to our three borders , even as we , too , aspire to join one day .
indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker .
immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey proposed the black sea economic cooperation .
this year , as the american- led effort to medi ate a middle east peace settlement began to fal ter , turkey took up the job of medi ator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel .
now , in the immediate wake of the russia- georgia crisis , turkey ’ s leaders have stepped forward once again to take a leadership role in the caucasus .
but , in order to succeed , turkey must firmly pursue a pledge from all the region ’ s players to repudi ate the use of force in settling their disputes .
if this pledge is adopted and respected , conflicts in the region will be viewed in a wholly different , more tolerant context , marking a historic breakthrough to peace .
in fact , why not take the idea of such a pact one step further ?
we in this region can , and i believe should , call for a non- aligned caucasus , free of security blocs and advers arial alliances .
after all , security alliances and guarantees only create dividing lines , with their attend ant security challenges .
our countries and peoples have , throughout history , lived under a common umbrella for far longer than we have been divided .
today , we share a common vision of european integration , and it is in this broader context that our conflicts should be resolved .
french president nicolas sarkozy ’ s and german chancellor angela merkel ’ s visits to georgia and russia proved that there is no substitute for europe insofar as the caucasus is concerned .
only europe can play the role of honest broker in the region ’ s atmosphere of suspicion and intolerance .
but , at the end of the day , we ourselves must be willing to work toward a region of peace and cooperation .
the caucasus is too small a space for closed borders and explosive conflicts .
although some of those tensions appear purely bilateral , the georg ian- russian conflict demonstrates that there is no such thing anymore in this globalized world , and certainly not in this interconnected region .
in fact , real peace in the caucasus requires two key strategic transformations .
one is a lesson from history : russia ’ s strategic interests here can not be ignored .
to believe and behave otherwise would lead to regional chaos .
the other lesson is that turkey and armenia can not remain adversaries forever .
there must be normalization in our relations in order for the caucasus to coales ce into a functional region .
ironically , both russia and the united states recognize that this is in their interest .
the russians view normal relations between turkey and armenia as a way to minimize georgia ’ s strategic role in the region .
the us views an opening to turkey as a way to decrease armenia ’ s real and imagined reliance on russia .
beyond the emotional impact of president gul ’ s visit to y er ev an , real improvement in turk ish- armenian relations requires opening the two countries ’ closed border – the last in europe .
or , for a start , the existing rail road link between the two countries could be made operational .
if this does not happen within the coming weeks and months , then turkey will have demonstrated that all this was just a show .
president gul ’ s visit does mark a watershed – either as a failure to make history , or as the beginning of a new era .
truth and consequences
new york – the recent re-election of colombia ’ s president , juan manuel santos , brings hope to a country seeking to end a half-century of conflict .
but , as with so many peace processes , finding a balance between creating a stable accord and acknowledging the terrible injustices that occurred during the conflict can be difficult to achieve .
many countries and communities , from nepal to northern ireland , have grappl ed with legacies of ethnic , ideological , or religious division and violence , often with limited success .
this is frequently the case because the mechanisms established to cope with post-conflict reconciliation , truth , and justice , have proved inadequate .
but victims complain that its procedures are slow and abstr use ; and many bosnian serbs are convinced that the tribunal is selective and politically motivated .
an agreement between nepal ’ s government and maoist guerrillas to establish a truth commission and investigate the “ disappeared ” was delayed for seven years .
when legislators finally enacted the enabling legislation in may 2013 , victims were dis ma yed to discover that the commission would be allowed to recommend am nes ties for crimes against humanity , in contr av ention of international principles and united nations guidelines .
in northern ireland , the good friday agreement , justly ac claimed for staun ching the bloodshed and starting reconciliation , has – to the great frustration of victims – run into political resistance over one integral element of the peace process : the establishment of mechanisms to clarify past crimes .
peace negotiators understandably fear that criminal accountability for past crimes will threaten their side ’ s leaders and supporters .
many have wrongly assumed – based on a mis interpretation of the south african experience – that truth commissions provide a “ soft ” alternative to justice .
as a result , they have willingly incorporated these mechanisms into peace agreements ( conveniently ignoring the fact that the victims are forced to choose between seeking justice and learning the truth ) .
predictably , as truth commissions have become established components of transitional justice , former fighters have become increasingly worried that their reputations and political credibility could be on the line should past crimes ever come to light .
seeking the truth can be unsettling and painful for anyone , but it comes with serious consequences for those with reason to fear justice .
indeed , conflict mediation and transitional justice rely on truth commissions as a fundamental building block of peace not because such commissions provide impunity for the worst crimes ; on the contrary , they reinforce comprehensive righ t s- based policies and access to justice .
as a recent sym posi um , organized by the kofi annan foundation and the international center for transitional justice , concluded , truth commissions contribute most to peace by reasser ting the rule of law , recognizing victims , and supporting institutional reform .
but , in order to succeed , these commissions must be effective , independent , and legitimate .
half- measures will not do .
truth commissions therefore should never be established as “ box - tic king ” exercises to assu age local public opinion or the international community , as witnessed in nepal .
even when broad mandates and functions are established with the best of intentions , truth commissions are often deprived of the necessary resources , leading to further frustration and disillusion .
moreover , a commission should not be led or staff ed by individuals of questionable integrity , thereby undermining the legitimacy of the process .
above all , truth commissions must be adapted to a country ’ s particular circumstances .
as we have seen in bosnia , colombia , nepal , northern ireland , and elsewhere , the nature of conflicts and how they are resolved differ widely ; so should their respective commissions .
a “ one-size-fits-all ” solution ends up fitting no one .
it is vital that the details of each case of post-conflict transitional justice are understood and implemented .
it is all too easy for political leaders to ignore victims or suppress the truth in their quest for a peace deal .
but recognizing victims ’ rights is an indispensable condition for lasting peace .
human suffering and victims ’ dignity are too powerful to be er ased by others ’ political pacts .
eventually , the past demands its due : justice is not just an ideal ; it is an investment in a better future .
alan greenspan on trial
the release of alan greenspan ’ s gh ost written memo irs the age of turbulence has elic ited charges that he was not such a great central banker after all .
stan coll ender of national journal sees the fin ger prints of the white house on these attacks : greenspan is harsh ly critical of george w. bush ’ s administration , after all , and to attack the credibility of republican ex- policymakers who are critical of bush is standard counter pun ching for it .
but what is one to make of the criticisms of greenspan ’ s tenure at the federal reserve ?
the indictment contains four counts : that greenspan wrongly che ered the growth of non- standard adjust able- rate mortgages , which fueled the housing bubble ; that he wrongly endorsed bush ’ s tax cuts ; that he should have re ined in the stock market bubble of the 1990 ’ s ; and that he should have done the same with the real estate bubble of the 2000 ’ s .
he says that he did not understand how the growth of non- standard mortgages had lu red borrowers and investors into bearing dangerous risks .
he was , he now says , focusing on how fixed- rate mortgages are relatively bad deals for borrowers in times of low inflation , which was a mistake .
greenspan also p leads guilty to a mistake in early 2001 .
he thought that he was giving balanced testimony to congress on government budget issues .
he testi fied that it is important to run surpluses to pay down the debt , but that surpluses must not be so large that the government winds up owning american industry .
he also testi fied that tax cuts are better than spending increases to keep surpluses from growing too large , but that uncertainty is enormous , so that any tax cuts should be canceled if they threatened to bring us back to an age of deficits .
robert ru bin and k ent con rad warned him that the press would not interpret his testimony as being balanced , and that congress would interpret it as an excuse to abandon fiscal discipline .
they were right .
greenspan also p leads guilty to misunderstanding the character of the bush administration .
he thought that his old real ity- based friends from the ford administration were back in power .
he thought that he – and treasury secretary paul o ’ ne ill – could win the quiet “ inside game ” for sensible policy without resorting to an “ outside game ” that would make his re appointment in 2004 unlikely .
he was wrong .
but how serious are these policy- political crimes to which greenspan now p leads guilty ?
in my view , they are mis dem ean ors .
against them you have to set what former treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’ s “ golden g love ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed .
the “ fel on ies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stop the stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’ s , and that he should have done more to stop the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’ s .
here , greenspan holds his ground , and p leads not guilty .
the only way , he says , for the fed to have kept stock prices in reasonable equilibrium r anges in the late 1990 ’ s would have been to raise interest rates so high that they hit the real economy on the head with a br ick .
interest rates high enough to curb stock market speculation would also have cur bed construction and other forms of investment , raised unemployment , and sent the economy into recession .
to cause a significant current evil in order to avoid a possible future danger when our knowledge is limited and our judgments uncertain is , greenspan believes , unwise .
in this , he is following a tradition of caution that extends from ed mun d bur ke to john maynard keynes .
greenspan moun ts a similar defense concerning the housing bubble .
high construction employment has been good for american workers in the past half-decade – a period that has not produced much good for them .
higher interest rates to reduce the housing boom seem , even in retrospect , ill advised if the cost is mass unemployment .
and greenspan esche ws paternalism : he would not assume the role of a regulator telling people that they can not buy a house even though a lender is willing to finance it .
but greenspan would have served the country and the world better if he had been somewhat more patern alist in slowing the growth of non- standard adjust able- rate mortgages .
he would have served the country and the world better had he been less of a loyal republican working the inside game of trying to convince bush ’ s political advis ors that good policy was important , and more of a non partisan ste ward of america ’ s long-term fiscal stability .
of course , such a greenspan would never have been re- appointed .
all in all , greenspan served the united states and the world well through his stewardship of monetary policy , especially by what he did not do : trying to stop stock and housing speculation by halting the economy in its tracks .
new york – next year will mark the twentieth anniversary of the collapse of communism in europe .
liberated from the complexity of knowing too much about the cruel past , the young people of eastern europe ’ s post-communist generation seem un interested in what their parents and grandparents endured .
yet the recent revelation of the czech writer milan k under a ’ s presumed complicity in the face of stal inism is but the latest of the long half- life of a toxic past .
other examples come to mind : the accusations of collaboration with the secret police raised against l ech wal esa , romania ’ s public controversi es surrounding mir ce a eli ade ’ s fascist past , and the attacks on the alleged “ jewish monopoly of suffering ” which equ ate the holocaust with the soviet gulag .
friedrich nie tz sch e said that if you look in the eye of the devil for too long , you risk becoming a devil yourself .
a bolshev ik anti communism , similar in its dog m atism to communism itself , has from time to time run ri ot in parts of eastern europe .
in country after country , that man ic he an mindset , with its over simp lif ications and manipul ations , was merely re- fashioned to serve the new people in power .
opportun ism has had its share in this , of course .
in 1945 , when the red army occupied romania , the communist party had no more than 1,000 members ; in 1989 , it had almost four million .
one day after nicol ae ce aus escu ’ s execution , most of these people suddenly became fierce anti communists and victims of the system they had served for decades .
residual traces of totalitarian thinking can also be found in the hostility to former dissidents like adam mic hn ik or vá cl av havel , both of whom argued that the new democracies should not exploit resentments or seek revenge , as the totalitarian state did , but instead build a new national consensus to structure and empower a genuine civil society .
former generals of the secret police and members of the communist nom en k lat ura , un tou ch able in their comfortable vill as and reti rements , must derive great pleasure from watching today ’ s wit ch hun ts and manipulation of old files for immediate political purposes .
but the case of k under a appears different – though no less disturbing .
in 1950 , k under a , then a 20- year-old communist , reportedly denounced to the criminal police as a western spy a man he had never met – a friend of his friend ’ s gir l friend .
the man was later brutally interrog ated in a former gest ap o torture facility and spent 14 years in prison .
k under a ’ s name was contained in the investigating officer ’ s report , which was authenti c ated after a respected historian discovered it in a du sty prague arch ive .
the re clu sive k under a , who im migrated to paris in 1975 , has declared that “ it never happened . ”
moreover , czechoslovakia ’ s fear some secret police , who had every interest in sil encing or compromising the famous dissident writer , never used the incident to blackmail or expose him .
until more information is forthcoming , both from k under a and from the authorities , the case will not be solved “ beyond reasonable doubt . ”
but if it happened , the case calls for a deeper reflection .
as far as we know , k under a never was an in former before or after this incident , and we can not ignore that he later freed himself from the compulsory totalitarian happiness that communism propag ated .
indeed , his case also serves as a reminder that the early 1950 ’ s was the most brutal period of “ pro le tarian dictatorship ” in eastern europe – a period of great enthusiasm and terrible fear that poisoned the minds and sou ls of devoted believers , fierce opponents , and apa thetic by stand ers alike .
moreover , k under a ’ s case is hardly unique .
in 2006 , the nobel pr iz e- winning german author gü n ter grass ’ s disclosed that , 60 years earlier , he was , as a teen ager , a member of the wa ff en- ss .
similarly , a few years ago , the world was shocked to learn that famous italian writer ign az io sil one had , in his youth , collabor ated with the fascist police .
daily life under totalitarianism , be it communist or fascist , was routinely based on a deep dupl icity whose effects are longstanding .
i don ’ t agree with those who say we should not be interested in the dark episodes in the life of a great writer .
why not ?
we should be interested not for prosecu tor ial purposes , but in order to gain a more profound understanding of a bloody , demagog ical , and tyrann ical ut opia – and of human weakness and vulnerability . we may even consider it a rewarding testament to an artist ’ s ability to overcome his past mistakes and still produce pric eless work .
an egregious example of this was the way followers of romanian philosopher const ant in no ica defended his support for the fascist iron guard and his later collaboration with the communists , while at the same time condemning even a generic cleaning woman for m opping the flo ors in the offices of the secret police .
shouldn ’ t that cleaner ’ s dru d gery to support her family , children , and her own survival be taken equally into account ?
life under totalitarianism was an extreme situation that requires us to apply special , nuanced rules to all the cap tives of that or deal .
in order to understand that epo ch , we have to know and carefully judge often ambiguous and overwhelming circumstances , never simp lifying a multi lay ered daily reality for the sake of current political goals .
if nothing else , in order to for give , we have to know what we are for giving .
in eastern europe today , old and young alike stand to benefit from that lesson .
mos es w and ered with his people in the desert for 40 years , until they had rid themselves of the poisonous slave mentality .
the alban ian miracle
ti ran a – five years ago , albania faced a truly ominous situation .
with greece and italy reeling from the euro crisis , remittances and capital inflows were falling and the economy suffered a severe slowdown .
the fiscal deficit ballo oned to over 7 % of gdp , financed to a large extent by arre ars , as access to external financial markets had collapsed and domestic interest rates were sky high .
in addition , the power distribution company was in both an operational and a financial crisis , unable to pay for the electricity that it was supposed to buy from power generation companies .
the arre ars of both the government and the power company were fueling an increase in non-performing loans in the banking system .
all the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome were there .
fast- forward to the present : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services .
at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa face plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and a strengthening currency .
it now has the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its rating class , indicating that markets think the rating agencies have been as le ep at the wheel .
once the north korea of europe under communist dictator en ver ho x ha , albania ’ s per capita income level is now 25 % that of germany .
if it can maintain its current growth rate , it will reach germany ’ s current income in 32 years .
at a time when economists are being blamed for all sorts of disappointing outcomes , and multilateral institutions such as the international monetary fund and the world bank are accused of failing to advise countries properly , it is re fresh ing to find that they may not be entirely useless after all .
what was the secret of albania ’ s turnaround ?
first , as opposed to many countries that delay action until it is too late , prime minister e di r ama called in the imf as soon as he got into power in september 2013 .
his government then negotiated a program that allowed albania to gain financial support while it was putting its fiscal house in order .
the three-year program ended successfully almost two years ago , and the debt-to-gdp ratio remains on a downward trend .
this year , it is declining by 2.5 % of gdp , while the country is significantly expanding its public investment budget .
to be able to grow in the midst of fiscal consolidation , something else has to pull the economy forward , typically exports .
and exports are growing in albania – where i have been leading a harvard center for international development research effort since 2013 – not because of good luck , but thanks to a relentless effort to remove bottlenecks and seize opportunities .
in the process , albania esche wed the temptation to focus on general doing business indicators , which assume that random ly following international best practices might do some good .
instead , the authorities followed a diagnostic approach to prioritize their policies .
this led to many ideas that proved to be powerful .
in agriculture , the development of aggreg ators helped small farmers connect to better technologies and more lucrative markets , creating a boom in vege table exports .
in the power sector , the government adopted an unorthodox strategy to change citizens ’ behavior regarding electricity theft and non- payment , which led in 2015 to a turnaround of almost 2 % of gdp in the distribution company ’ s cash flow .
likewise , consul tative groups in manufacturing and tourism identified areas for improvement .
albania has invested in the recovery of its historic cities and is now investing in 100 villages with strong agro- tourism potential that happen to be in areas that are both poor and pr ist ine .
no wonder that tourism is growing at double-digit rates .
moreover , the country ’ s ambass ad ors are now being used in a concerted strategy to promote foreign investment through direct engagement with firms .
and policymakers are now engaging albania ’ s diaspora – found to be an important source of talent , investment , market opportunities , and business ideas – to great effect .
the innovations have not been only at the national level .
er ion vel ia j , the mayor of ti ran a , has tripled municipal revenues since he took over in 2015 and used the proceeds in ways that have made the city one of the most pleasant in the region .
albania ’ s capital has won european awar ds for its development of high-quality urban spaces and for solving mobility and environmental problems in innovative ways .
the lessons for other countries are clear .
success in the face of difficulties happens when governments are conscious of their predicament and their weaknesses , can articulate and own their goals , and search relentlessly for ways to achieve their aspirations .
in this process , countries are not alone .
the system of international financial assistance led by the imf and the develop ment- finance institutions can be very helpful .
but countries must figure out when and how best to use them .
they can enhance government capacity but can not substitute for government commitment .
the lesson for the european union is also clear : when thinking about accession countries like albania and the rest of the western balkans , it is important to look not only at what these countries are or have been , but also at the zeal with which they act in order to become what they aspire to be .
for much of its history , albania looked hopeless .
but hopeless is as hopeless does .
now albania ’ s turnaround is a source of hope for the rest of us .
toward a more reflec tive planet
cambridge – the last time the atmosphere held as much carbon dioxide as it does today was about three million years ago – a time when sea levels were 10- 30 meters higher than they are now .
climate models have long struggled to dupl icate those large fluctuations in sea levels – until now .
indeed , for the first time , a high-quality model of antarctic ice and climate has been able to sim ulate these large swings .
that is smart science , but it brings devastating news .
the new model shows that melting in antar c tica alone could increase global sea levels by as much as one meter ( 3.2 feet ) by the end of this century – well above prior estimates .
worse , it suggests that even extraordinary success at cutting emissions would not save the west antarctic ice sheet , locking in eventual sea-level increases of more than five meters .
as little as one meter could put at risk entire cities , from mi ami to mumbai , and cause enormous economic disruption .
to this end , albe do modification – a kind of geo engineering intended to cool the planet by increasing the reflec tivity of the earth ’ s atmosphere – holds tremendous promise .
injec ting synthetic aeros ols that reflect sunlight into the strat osphere , for example , could help counter the warming caused by greenhouse gases .
the mechanism is similar to wearing a white shir t in the summer : white reflects sunlight and co ols what is under ne ath , whereas dar ker colors absorb sunlight and heat .
to be sure , even in the best- case scenario , solar geo engineering alone could not stabilize the world ’ s climate .
for that , we must both stop pumping carbon pollution into the atmosphere and learn how to remove what is already there .
that is why emissions cuts should receive the lion ’ s share of resources devoted to combating climate change .
but , as the recent study shows , emissions cuts alone can not save the west antarctic ice sheet and prevent a drastic sea-level rise .
if they are pursued in conjunction with moderate albe do modification , however , there is a chance of halting rising temperatures , helping to keep the world under 1.5 ° celsius above pre-industrial levels , the more ambitious target agreed at the paris climate talks last december .
( it should be noted that , given carbon- cycle feed backs , such as the th aw ing of per ma fro st , there is a chance that the world would face a 1.5°c rise , even if emissions were eliminated today . )
most of the world ’ s state- of-the- art climate models have explored albe do modification , and each of them has found that the process does have the potential to mitigate climate change .
beyond limiting total warming , it can help to check the rise in peak temperatures , decreasing the risk of destructive heat waves .
and it seems to be particularly effective at reducing extreme rainfall , which holds profound implications for minimizing flood damage .
albe do modification remains uncertain and risky , owing partly to a dearth of organized research into the subject .
and , in fact , albe do modification would undoubtedly make some things worse .
but there is not a single climate model run that shows that a moderate intervention would make any region worse off overall .
moreover , the large potential upside , measured in trillions of dollars , contrasts with low direct costs – in the single- digit billions for full-scale deployment .
in fact , albe do modification is so cheap that direct costs will not be the deciding issue .
instead , it is a risk- risk trade-off – one that will require more research to assess .
given the lack of knowledge , no sensible person would push for deploying albe do modification today .
but it would make no sense to ignore its potential .
after all , no one would argue that we should abandon research on a promising cancer drug because it is un proven .
the us national academy of sciences first called attention to what it then described as “ climate modification ” in a 1983 report .
it recommended careful research in 1992 and again in 2015 .
major environmental groups such as the environmental defense fund and the natural resources defense council support careful , small-scale research .
yet no such program exists .
one reason for this is concern about the diversion of resources from other approaches .
and , of course , there are tradeoffs .
but the us , for example , has an annual climate science budget of around $ 3 billion .
an explor atory solar geo engineering program , costing only a few tens of millions of dollars per year , is entirely feasible .
maybe so , but it would be bar king mad to take up smoking simply because an experimental cancer treatment showed some promise on a lab r at .
and , in fact , it is conceivable that a concerted effort to advance research on albe do modification could spur action to cut emissions , much like a graphic look at the side effects of chemotherapy promp ts some to stop smoking .
wh ich ever reaction prevails , the moral imperative to explore a technology that can protect the poorest and most vulnerable this century would seem to trump am orph ous concerns that doing so could weaken the incentive to pursue solutions that would largely benefit future generations .
china has initiated a limited research program on albe do modification .
the us has not .
given that albe do modification is the kind of technology that necess it ates an open , transparent , and international research effort – precisely the kind of effort in which the us exc els – this is a serious failing .
the us government should take the lead now in resear ching albe do modification .
even if the result was that albe do modification does not work , the dividends of such research would be enormous , owing to the added pressure to cut emissions .
and if it turned out to be successful , the social , environmental , and economic returns would be tremendous .
india ’ s prohibition hypocrisy
new delhi – last month , 18 people in the g op alg an j district of india ’ s bi har state died after consuming illicit alcohol , highlighting – once again – the peculiar relationship between morality and tragedy in india .
the victims were poisoned because this april , in a fit of mor alism , bi har adopted a draconian law prohibiting the sale , possession , and consumption of alcohol .
it is far from the first such ban that has ended badly .
in a country where the national hero is the s ain tly mah at ma gandhi , who considered alcohol an un mitigated evil , drinking has always carried a wh iff of dis repu te .
india ’ s constitution , in its non- enforceable directive principles , urg es indians to work toward prohibition , and the government does not serve alcohol even at state ban qu ets and official rec ep tions .
four out of 29 indian states ( bi har , gujarat , man i pur , and nag al and ) and one union territory ( l ak shad we ep or the l acc ad ive islands ) are currently attempting to enforce total prohibition .
but maintaining a sweeping prohibition policy has long proved difficult in india .
in man i pur in 2002 , the 1991 ban was lifted in five hill districts , where alcohol consumption is a cent uri es- old local tradition .
l ak shad we ep makes an exception for an un inhabited island , where a tourist resort is allowed to operate a bar .
when i was a child , what was then bomb ay exc used anyone with a doctor ’ s note confir ming alcohol ism .
( well- he eled executives tr ipped over themselves to be labeled alcohol ics . )
the state that best illustrates the appeal and the pitfalls of such mor alism is kerala , which announced in 2014 that it was implementing a partial ban on the sale of alcohol , with the goal of achieving total prohibition in ten years .
it has been backsliding ever since .
a coastal state , kerala has long been viewed as a tourist parad ise – a reputation no doubt kept afloat on a sea of easily available lib ations .
before the ban , kerala held a somewhat dubious distinction : india ’ s highest per capita consumption of spirits .
but in india , where prohibition is popular among many segments of the electorate , politicians find it particularly difficult to resist the self- righteous urge to improve their fellow citizens .
so kerala ’ s government introduced the ban .
and , at first , many approved .
the influential christian churches applauded the move , as did the chris ti an- affiliated political parties .
working-class women , tired of watching their labor er hus bands blow their monthly wages on boo ze , also welcomed the decision , as did traditi onal ists , gand h ians , and other mor alists , of which india has an abundance .
no public figure of any consequence in kerala stood up to oppose the decision .
any politician who might have been inclined to do so knew that they would be instantly tar red as a vo tary of evil alcohol , an agent of the “ liqu or mafia , ” a bar - lo ving enemy of good , wholes ome gand h ian values .
but there were good reasons to oppose the ban – reasons that had nothing to do with religion , morality , or alcohol ism .
exc ise duties on liqu or account for 22 % of the state revenues that sustain generous welfare programs in kerala , which boasts the best social development indicators in india .
another 26 % of state revenues come from tourism , which would surely also take a hit .
furthermore , much of kerala ’ s economic viability depends on dynamic knowledge and services sectors .
attracting talent and investment from abroad would become much more difficult if prohibition hampered the state ’ s quality of life .
( it professionals in bang al ore , in the neighboring state kar nat aka , f lock to that city ’ s bars and pu bs after long hours at work . )
kerala ’ s leaders should have known that their state could not afford to do without widely available , heavily taxed liqu or .
but they began to implement the policy anyway .
almost immediately , 20,000 bar workers and dis till ery employees lost their jobs , in a state that already struggles with high unemployment .
tourism operators were st ung by canc el ations , as would-be visitors decided to visit sri lanka or go a instead ; 50 % of existing convention boo kings were canceled .
and it companies contemplating moving to clean , green , tech - friendly kerala expressed concern about the prohibition policy .
it was not long before kerala ’ s government decided that prohibition would apply only to hard alcohol , and closed bars could re open as w ine and be er parl ors .
but that was not enough to save the government in june ’ s state election , which produced a new communist administration that , advocating education about the ev ils of alcohol instead of a ban , has promised to review the prohibition policy .
so kerala is no longer hur tling toward disaster in the name of saving people from themselves .
but it never should have gone as far as it did , given experience with prohibition in other states , where falling revenues and rising crime ( including smuggling , tax evasion , and illicit liqu or production ) forced its revoc ation .
four states – and h ra pradesh , har y ana , m iz or am , and tamil nad u – have repe aled prohibition policies .
to be sure , not everyone loses out from a prohibition policy .
when kerala first announced its plans , neighboring tamil nad u ’ s alcohol ic be ver ages corporation , t as mac , promptly declared its intention to open a string of new outlets along the states ’ border , to c ater to the demands of ker al ite consumers .
in other words , exc ise duties from kerala would now fill tamil nad u ’ s coffers .
banning alcohol in india has been economically devastating .
yet politicians continue to use the promise of prohibition to win votes .
when elections were called in tamil nad u early this year , its chief minister declared herself in favor of prohibition .
after the election was won , however , all such talk discre e tly subsid ed .
my late father liked to say : “ india is not only the world ’ s largest democracy ; we are also the world ’ s largest hypocrisy . ”
i suppose we can drink to that .
leaders for a lead er less world
sadly , this one will be no different .
but there are two pieces of good news that break through the glo om .
first , the global significance of us president barack obama ’ s reelection is clear : the world has escaped a disaster for international cooperation .
the us was on the verge of sinking into isolationist nationalism , reinforced , perhaps , by xenophobic sentiment .
obama ’ s victory , despite america ’ s economic travails , cle ars the way for cooperation based on a sympathetic e ar to others and on negotiations in which the us does not deny the legitimacy of a global public interest ( as it has done , unfortunately , on the issue of climate change ) .
the other piece of good news concerns france , and thus is more “ local , ” but is crucially important nonetheless .
like everywhere else in the developed world , the global crisis has hit the french economy hard , with output stagnating , unemployment rising , job insecurity mounting , government debt soaring , and the stock market at risk of cr ashing .
manufacturing production has plummeted , the trade balance has deteriorated sharply , and corporate bankruptcies are increasingly frequent .
for six months , france has had new leadership – a new president , government , and parliament .
but president françois hollande and his government were strang ely in active after the elections , limiting themselves to reducing the impact of unfair budget cuts and taxation reforms implemented by the previous government of nicolas sarkozy .
many began to wonder whether hollande was aware of the scope of the crisis that the recent downturn might trigger .
in recent weeks , however , the government has introduced energetic and courageous measures to boost the competitiveness of french industries , including a huge € 20 billion ( $ 26 billion ) tax break for businesses , to be financed by a hike in value-added tax , which means that the general public will pay for it .
the vat increase will hurt , but there was no other way .
awareness , boldness , and comprehensive policymaking have come as a relief to french investors , and have left them better positioned to face the crisis .
the french government ’ s new push to confront the country ’ s economic plight matters not only to france , but to europe and the world as well .
after all , france is the eurozone ’ s second-largest economy , and the fif th-largest economy in the world .
and yet , despite these bright spots , international cooperation on issues ranging from regional conflicts to the protection of global public goods remains weak .
antar c tica , the only land in the world that is administered directly by the international community , is a recent case in point .
the antarctic treaty , negotiated in 195 9 , prohibits any and all military activities in antar c tica and forb ids the establishment of any borders .
three agreements – the convention for the conservation of antarctic se als ( 1972 ) , the convention on the conservation of antarctic marine living resources ( cc am l r , 1980 ) , and the protocol on environmental protection to the antarctic treaty ( pe p , 1991 ) , which prohibits any activity relating to mineral resources – have since been added to the treaty .
the antarctic treaty system includes three annual meetings : one deals with the supervision and management of the treaty itself , and the other two concern the cc am l r and the pe p .
in recent years , proposals have been considered that would establish marine reserves around the continent and end the risk of growing scarcity , or the outright disappearance , of a variety of species of fish and ce tac e ans .
the principle that international cooperation is required to protect fish ery resources , which are dwindling everywhere , was adopted at the 2011 cc am l r meeting .
at the 2012 cc am l r meeting , which concluded at the beginning of november in hob art , australia , three proposals ( from the us , new zealand , and franc e / australia ) to establish marine reserves in three different areas were discussed .
they were compatible and would reinforce one another .
yet the discussion found ered , and no decision was taken .
russia and ukraine – and , to a lesser extent , china – blocked efforts to reach an agreement .
this failure reflects the same dynamic at work in the breakdown of global climate-change conferences in recent years : a few cynical countries , whose cooperation is needed to save the planet , fuel the madness of those bent on destroying it .
that will not change until a new consciousness emerges worldwide to persuade states to support binding international law .
france has a president who understands the need for bold , far-reaching actions as well .
their active leadership , and that of others , is needed now more than ever to turn the tide .
assured mutual dependence
london – during the cold war , the certainty of “ mutually assured destruction ” steered the nuclear arms race away from catastrophe : a would-be att acker would face immediate retaliation , inevitably ending in both sides ’ annihil ation .
today , a very different race is taking place – a race for the earth ’ s vital resources , and it threatens to undermine stability in key regions of the world .
the growing dependence of countries on one another ’ s food , water , and energy requires that the global response to sustainability is taken to the highest political level .
unlike the nuclear arms race of the twentieth century , the resource- security agenda is not linear .
mutually assured destruction was explicitly acknowledged during the cold war in statements from both sides .
in the race for resources that defines the twenty-first century , no actor is directly or indirectly threatening other players to curtail food or energy exports , but all bear the systemic risks .
countries have become un avoid ably interdependent , and climate change , water stress , and the loss of ecological resilience all increase the volatility of this mutual dependence .
in a world of limited and scarce resources , countries and companies will be forced to make decisions that affect one another ’ s security .
in order to navigate this interdependence , the earth security index 2014 , produced by the earth security initiative , shows countries ’ combined vulnerabilities that might increase the risk exposure of governments and companies , unless more strategic approaches and sustainable investments are put in place .
the es i identifies four areas of mutual dependence that will likely shape global security in the coming decades :
· cho ke points .
countries ’ growing demand for energy , water , food , and land can not be satisfied without in curr ing tradeoffs among limited available resources .
cho ke points are reached when the available resources are insufficient to satisfy demand .
in china and india , for example , this means that in certain regions there may not be enough water in the short term to run coal-fired ther mal power stations and irrig ate large fields to grow crops .
in china , 60 % of planned coal-fired power plants will be built in water- stressed regions .
· food .
the growing dependence of many countries on food , water , and energy imports creates new opportunities for trade and investment , but it also exposes countries to critical vulnerabilities .
australia , for example , is a large coal exporter but imports most of its refined fuels and holds just three days of fuel stockpiles .
the challenges of mutual dependence are particularly acute with respect to food .
as the es i shows , some countries – including egypt , peru , and the united arab emirates – are heavily dependent on cer eal imports from a small number of suppliers .
moreover , grain suppliers ’ exposure to extreme weather may compromise their ability to sustain supplies , with knoc k- on effects for import - dependent countries .
in 2010 , for example , russia imposed an export ban on wheat , following a severe drought .
the resulting food- price increases are believed to have played a role in egypt ’ s revolution .
· tel econ nec tions .
anticipating systemic ecological risks will be increasingly important for sectors such as re insurance and infrastructure investments .
“ tel econ nec tions ” refer to weather events that are related to one another over large geographic distances .
for example , tropical rain forests play a crucial function in maintaining stable weather and rainfall , acting as a “ pump ” that helps mo ist ure travel between different regions .
deforestation can thus have a destabilizing effect on weather patterns , amp lifying the frequency and severity of extreme events such as floods and droughts .
the resulting liabilities to key industries and the financial sector are clear .
in brazil , for example , deforestation in amaz onia has slowed significantly over the last five years , but brazil has already lost more than 11 million hectares of rain forest ; its exposure to extreme weather has also steadily risen , with floods causing $ 4.7 billion in losses in 2011 alone .
· land productivity bottlenecks : agriculture systems are reaching resource limits , and persistent governance gaps compromise their ability to ensure food security , dignified livelihoods , and ecological stewardship .
companies , investors , governments , and communities confront a series of critical barriers to increasing the food availability that the world needs : local populations ’ insecure land ownership ; rece ding water tables , owing to unsustainable extraction rates ; inefficient use of pollu tion- causing inputs like fertilizers and pesticides ; the loss of vital ecosystems , affecting the resilience of food production ; and certain areas ’ inability to cope with extreme weather .
in some regions of india , for example , these issues are playing out in tandem .
insecure land tenure acts as a dis incentive for smallholder farmers to commit to productivity-enhancing investments ; water extraction rates are deple ting aqu if ers as a result of permis sive policies ; and food security remains out of reach for millions of people , despite rapid economic growth in urban areas .
countries and companies will increasingly need to invest in sustainable land in order to hedge their resource risks .
in 2015 , global frameworks are due to be agreed to address climate change , coordinate responses to natural disasters , and guide the world ’ s development agenda .
some of these multilateral processes – in particular , those seeking an ambitious global climate agreement – appear to be moving in slow motion and against the grain of geopolitical interests .
in the past , the case for high-level nuclear governance was urgent and clear , but required processes for creating a common understanding of risks and opportunities across national borders .
successful multilateral responses , like the nuclear non-proliferation treaty , continue to be supported by more flexible global platforms , such as the nuclear threat initiative , based on relationships and trust established outside the box of formal multilateralism .
this year , as world leaders discuss the next generation of sustainability , development , and climate frameworks , they will need to put their security and mutual dependence at the heart of the responses .
here , too , the world will need to create informal platforms that supplement traditional multilateralism .
in particular , the outdated divisions between rich and poor countries and their responsibilities must be revised .
as new powers like china , brazil , india , and other g-20 economies bid to reform global governance systems , their vulnerability to resource security must invigor ate these processes .
only then will the world be on track to improve the security of all .
after aleppo
denver – the end of the fighting in aleppo will not end the syrian war , despite the country wide ceasefire that has just been agreed .
nor will it ease the suffering of the city ’ s population , much of which has been displaced .
what the aleppo siege will do is clin ch syria ’ s place in history as , to borrow former us secretary of state warren christ opher ’ s phrase , another “ problem from hell . ”
and , like other hel l ish recent regional conflicts , such as those in bosnia ( to which christ opher was referring ) and rwanda , future historians will emphasize a crucial feature of the syria conflict : the spectacular diplomatic failures that enabled it to escalate .
good diplomacy begins with a keen analysis of interests , both of the country in question and of relevant external powers .
it demands a careful assessment of how the pursuit of those interests will affect the regional and international order .
and it seeks ways to strengthen the capacity of regional or world powers to help solve problems .
throughout this process , universally shared and consistently reinforced values – both critical in getting disparate actors to work together to resolve problems and challenges – must provide a moral comp ass and common ground for action .
the key is to ensure that values do not become weapons , deployed by one actor against another in a way that exacerbates tensions and undermines solutions .
consider the 1990s bosnian war – the result of unfinished business from the breakup of the austrian and ottoman empires and the creation of nation-states earlier in the twentieth century .
partly as a result of this , the conflict was characterized by large-scale civilian carnage and human-rights violations .
but , as a test for the new world order , the bosnian war ended up cataly zing change in the international community ’ s institutional structure ( including the establishment of war crimes tribunals ) .
could the nascent post-cold war system handle the in cho ate problems of the former soviet union ?
could nato take on new roles and missions ?
could the west work with the new russian federation ?
could the transatlantic relationship weather the storm ?
the answer to all of these questions turned out to be yes .
as a result , though the region continues to be beset by serious problems , the gates of hell have remained closed – as they have in rwanda .
and yet , just 20 years later , it seems that the world ’ s collective memory of how to cooperate has failed .
to be sure , there was never a clear path to peace in syria .
president bashar al-assad , whose forces now control all of aleppo for the first time since 2012 , is a brutal dictator who has waged war on his own people , including civilians , and has even used chemical weapons .
the temptation to seek regime change – a goal embraced by the united states and some european countries – was understandable .
yet , in a display of spectacularly incompetent diplomacy , the us set about pursuing that goal without any serious effort to marshal international support , or even to take stock of other opinions or interests .
and make no mistake : there are a lot of ( often conflicting ) opinions and interests .
after all , syria is strategically per ched on the mediterranean ; shares borders with israel , jordan , turkey , and iraq ; and , like iraq , has its own restive kurdish minority .
it is not the kind of country to which international and regional powers would be indifferent .
in fact , when western powers called for regime change , other actors – including iran , russia , and shia interests in neighboring lebanon – objected .
nonetheless , the us soldi ered on with its own poorly formulated agenda , supplying weapons to virtually unknown combatants on the ground before properly ve tting them .
that gave the assad regime ’ s allies all the justification they needed to supply weapons of their own .
some argue that , if the us had just provided more weapons sooner , assad would not have had time to galvanize support and hold onto power .
but that negl ects the strategic importance of syria to so many external powers , as well as the fragmentation and un predictability of the us-based combatants .
america ’ s real mistake was failing to engage with all sides , including assad and the sunni opposition , which it deemed sectarian .
( during the bosnian war , by contrast , the us talked to r ump yugoslavia ’ s ruler , slobodan mil o š ev ić . )
with that narrow -minded approach – reflected in the lack of any articulated vision for a post-war syria – the us effectively handed the diplomatic rein s over to russia .
now , the us is essentially playing the role of ag it ator , offering little more than displays of moral outrage and st ale references to a stil l born geneva process .
reacting to the carnage in aleppo , sam anth a power , the us ambassador to the united nations , was reduced to demanding of assad ’ s russian ally , “ are you truly incapable of shame ? ”
meanwhile , the conflict r ages on , with severe spillover effects on us allies like the european union .
as for russia , it , too , is pursuing a version of diplomacy that utterly lacks inclusiveness .
it is working with turkey ( a nato member that seems increasingly lost at sea ) to bring the syrian opposition and representatives of the assad government together in kazakhstan for a new series of peace talks , facilitated by the ceasefire , of which russia and turkey are guaran tors .
but where are the sunni arab states ?
more important , where is the us ?
it is often observed that , every four years , the us does without a foreign policy .
this time , it seems to have gotten an early start .
alexander hamilton ’ s eurozone tour
princeton – europe ’ s debt crisis has pi qu ed europeans ’ interest in american precedents for federal finance .
for many , alexander hamilton has become a contemporary hero .
perhaps one day his face should appear on the € 10 bank note .
specifically , for european states gro an ing under unbearable debt burdens , hamilton ’ s negotiation in 17 90 of the new federal government ’ s assumption of the states ’ large debts looks like a tempting model .
indeed , after thomas s arg ent won the nobel prize in economics last year , he cited it as a precedent in his acceptance speech .
hamilton argued – against james mad ison and thomas je ffer son – that the debts accumulated by the states during the war of independence should be assumed by the federation .
there were two sides to his case , one practical , the other philosophical .
initially , the most appealing argument for his plan was that it would provide greater security to creditors , and thus reduce interest rates , from the 6 % at which the states financed their debt to 4 % . hamilton emphasized the importance of a commitment to sound finance as a prerequisite to public economy .
“ when the credit of a country is in any degree questionable , ” he argued , “ it never fails to give an extravagant premium upon all the loans it has occasion to make . ”
while that logic certainly appeals to europeans today , hamilton insisted on a stronger reason for pursuing sound finance than merely the pursuit of expedi ency .
there is , he maintained , “ an intimate connection between public virtue and public happiness . ”
that virtue consisted in hon oring commitments , and it would build solidarity in the new political community of the united states .
indeed , public virtue made federal finance what he called “ the powerful cement of our union . ”
the condition for success in the american case was that the us raised its own revenue , with feder ally administered customs houses initially providing the bulk of its receipts .
the logic of a need for specific revenue applies also in modern europe , where a reformed fiscal system might include common administration of value-added tax ( with the additional benefit of eliminating a considerable amount of cross-border fraud ) .
in the american case , however , unity carried a price : a ceiling was imposed on virginia ’ s exposure to the common debt .
only this induc ement to the most powerful state in the union persuaded mad ison to drop his opposition to the proposal .
that compromise ( which also led to the us capital ’ s relocation to the district of columbia , on the border of virginia and mar y land ) may serve as a precedent for limiting germany ’ s liabilities if eurobonds , or some other debt- mutualization scheme , are introduced .
the us experiment in feder alized finance was not immediately successful .
two important components of hamilton ’ s financial architecture were not realized , or were realized imperfec tly .
he proposed a model of joint - stock banking on a national scale , which ran into immediate opposition ( cur iously , his proposal was much more influential in canada ) .
second , opponents eventually blocked his proposal for a national central bank .
the charter of the first bank of the united states was allowed to lap se in 18 11 ; a generation later , in 18 36 , president andrew jackson successfully opposed the charter of the second bank of the united states .
nor did the hamil t onian scheme of federal finance guarantee a peaceful commonwealth .
as international capital markets developed in the early nineteenth century , state governments borrowed on a large scale , quickly turning them from creditors into debtors .
a wave of state defaults followed in the late 18 30 ’ s .
a generation later , in the 18 60 ’ s , the civil war between northern and southern states resulted in large part from a dispute about the character of financial burdens – amp at least from the south ’ s perspective .
abraham lincoln ’ s original proposal to end the immoral practice of slavery by compensating slave owners for man um is sion was unacceptably expensive , so the union , according to the slav e- holding con feder acy , was determined to expropri ate the south .
the federal assumption of states ’ debts by itself could not guarantee political order .
the civil war revealed the centrality of a common foundation of morality to hamilton ’ s approach to debt and public finance .
as a result , his approach found ered on the differences between the different states ’ conception of morality .
europeans today have lat ched onto the practical side of hamilton ’ s argument – that is , the idea that debt mutualization might be a means to cheaper credit ; but they have worked out neither the political institutions , nor the shared public virtue , that hamilton deemed crucial .
the extended and politicized debate about debt restructuring has made a hamil t onian solution more difficult , because the credit of the countries that would be party to it has become questionable .
an obvious starting point for a hamil t onian europe would be to set some standard limit for feder alized national debt – perhaps the tarnished threshold of 60 % of gdp that was mandated ( without adequate enforcement ) by the maastricht convergence criteria , or perhaps a lower limit .
debt exceeding that amount would be left to the responsibility of the member states .
collective burden-sharing is in the long run the only non- catastrophic way out of europe ’ s current crisis , but that requires a substantially greater degree of political accountability and control on a european level .
the lesson to be learned from hamilton and the us is that the necessary institutions will not function without a greater degree of moral consensus as well .
can navalny save russia ?
moscow – in 18 11 , assessing the possibility – or , rather , the impossibility – of russia ever undergoing a western-style transformation , the diplomat and counter- enlightenment philosopher joseph de ma istr e famously wrote , “ every nation has the government it deserves . ”
four teen years later , the dec embr ist revolt – a movement of po ets and army officers to topple czar nicholas i and establish a constitutional monarchy – seemed to refu te de ma istr e ’ s claim .
yet the revolt was suppressed , and the dec embr ists were executed or exiled .
one doomed officer famously declared , “ you can ’ t hang us all . ”
russia ’ s brutal twentieth century , with its totalitarianism and gul ag s , nearly proved that officer – and de ma istr e – wrong .
no one “ deserves ” to be ruled so mon str ously .
an estimated 20 million russians per ished under stalin ’ s rule , and the rest were paralyzed with terror .
the twenty-first century has been kin der to russians , at least so far .
but , while terror and famine have been absent , many of the oppressive tactics of the past have been revived under vladimir putin ’ s mis rule , now in its 14 th year .
since 2003 , when the billionaire oil olig arch mikhail khodorkovsky was arrested for alleged embe zz lement and fraud – after he dared to support putin ’ s political opponents – russia ’ s elite has been largely brought to heel .
none of them envisaged ro tting in a labor camp like khodorkovsky .
under putin , it seems , de ma istr e ’ s ma x im has received a new lease on life .
then in 2011 , massive protests against putin and his party of “ c roo ks and th iev es ” erupted , and alex ei navalny , who coined that ep i the t , became the face of russia ’ s opposition .
navalny , a 3 7- year-old anti-corruption lawyer , has been a thor n in putin ’ s side ever since .
recently , he announced that he has presidential ambitions ; in the meantime , he is seeking to become the mayor of moscow ( arguably the second most important political post in russia ) .
the incumbent mayor , serge y so by an in , who has the full support of the kremlin political- media machine , has been receiving person al- approval ratings above 90 % in recent opinion polls .
but navalny ’ s approval ratings are not far behind , at 80 % , and he has achieved them entirely on his own .
navalny ’ s candidacy received a recent boost when he became a convicted criminal , following a trial that resem bled khodorkovsky ’ s in terms of blatant political manipulation .
accused of fraud , navalny received a five-year prison sentence for allegedly embe zz ling from ki ro v les , a provincial timber company .
but , in an unusual twist , navalny was released from custody pending appeal of his conviction only a day after it was handed down .
that , some say , was because his supporters immediately took to the streets .
the lik el ier motivation is that putin decided to let the election play out , relying on navalny to lose .
in that case , so by an in , who was appointed in 2010 , would gain the legitimacy that he has lacked until now , and the opposition movement would be discredited in the capital , whose residents form the core of navalny ’ s political base .
but what if navalny is elected ?
would his sentence be comm uted , postponed , or ann ul led ?
would he go to prison , mus co v ites ’ choice notwithstanding ?
in a new challenge to de ma istr e ’ s ma x im , almost 200 young businessmen over came the fear inspired by khodorkovsky ’ s fate and donated funds to navalny ’ s campaign .
thir ty- seven of them signed what they called a new “ social contract . ”
according to their manifesto , they “ expect navalny to defend the rule of law , support independent courts , and ensure that officials are really accountable before society . ”
they are investing “ reputational , financial , organizational , and other resources ” in a man who promises to hire competent advisers and free the city – and eventually the country – from endemic corruption and abuse of power .
most of these young entrepreneurs have risen within the “ knowledge economy . ”
they include the invent or of a clou d- computing service , the founder of an online lux ury- goods business , a develop er of new banking technologies , and the cre ator of a social- networking platform for doctors .
all of them have good educ ations , and many hold american business degrees .
many of these business leaders would have preferred to stay out of politics ; but russia ’ s poor education system , economic feu d alism , official hom ophobia , and other fest ering problems have left them no choice .
and putin himself has become an in suffer ably vul gar embarrassment .
to be sure , navalny ’ s backers could em igrate comfortably ; but , invigor ated by their candidate ’ s campaign , they are willing to see whether he can make a difference .
indeed , navalny has become the only hope for competitive politics in russia .
at the same time , navalny ’ s un apol o getic nationalism makes many people nervous .
and , while russian leaders may start out as reformers , they do not often remain so .
boris yeltsin began the 1990 ’ s as a courageous democrat , only to end up a corrupt , bi bul ous buff oon , while putin initially vowed to bring law and order to the post- yeltsin chaos .
so moscow ’ s ma yor al election is a moment of truth for navalny , the business leaders investing in his campaign , all mus co v ites , and perhaps russia as a whole .
as in the time of the dec embr ists , anyone in russia can suffer from over we ening government power , regardless of political belief .
fear and apathy have become riskier than taking a stand .
but the question remains : come september 8 , can navalny and his supporters change russia ’ s political culture of fear , or was de ma istr e right after all ?
athens – george clo on ey has reign ited a longstanding debate after suggesting , in response to a greek journalist ’ s question , that removing the par th en on mar bles , known in britain as the el g in mar bles , from london ’ s british museum and returning them to their ancient home in athens would be “ the right thing to do . ”
in the early nineteenth century , the fr ie zes and s culp tures were removed from the par th en on by lord el g in , britain ’ s ambassador to the ottoman empire from 17 99 to 18 0 3 .
el g in sold them to the british government , which put them in the british museum .
greece wants them back .
the occasion for this latest round of historical j ou sting is the release of clo on ey ’ s new film the monuments men , which details allied efforts to rescue art works from the nazis during world war ii .
his comments inf uri ated london ’ s provocative mayor , boris johnson , himself a class ics scholar and author , who shot back that clo on ey ’ s position on the issue was similar to that of the nazis portrayed in his film .
but the film is of less interest in this dispute than the identity of the characters involved .
perhaps the most important question is this : whom is the public inclined to believe – clo on ey or johnson ( or perhaps the nazis ) ?
of course , one might ask why the people involved should matter at all ; surely the facts of the case should speak for themselves .
and yet , on questions such as this – as with so many important political , social , economic , and cultural issues – what we come to believe is not based on the facts alone , if at all .
sometimes we may indeed think deeply about the pro s and con s of each argument , actively seeking information and data that would support one view over another ; in other cases , however , we rely on a “ quick and dirty ” evaluation of the arguments , focusing not on evidence , but rather on an advocate ’ s expertise or popularity .
social and cognitive psychologists have long understood these two basic processes in their study of “ du al- process ” models , which explain how we process information and eventually form an opinion .
we take the peripheral route to information processing when buying , say , a to ast er on a wh im , whereas we take the so-called central route – thoroughly considering technical , safety , and a es thetic features – when buying a car .
the systematic study of persuasion began during world war ii , when the us army recognized that fighting a nation mes mer ized by hitler would require bolstering troop motivation and rallying popular support for the war .
they sought help from yale university psych ologist carl ho v land and his associates , who produced what has become a well-known model of persuasion , comprising three groups of variables related to the commun ic ator , the audience , and the message .
ho v land drew upon ideas dating back to arist o tle ’ s rhetoric , which argued that persu asi veness is built on the commun ic ator ’ s ethical character , the audience ’ s emotional state , and the logic of the argument , the latter being the most powerful .
psychological research has shown that any one of these three can be persuasive , depending on the speaker ’ s attractiveness or the audience ’ s pre dis position .
for example , star - struck female film fans may be especially prone to believe any ut ter ance from hollywood ’ s most famous silver fox . or , in the case of the nazis , fear may pre dispose the audience to be persuaded .
but in most cases , when people are confronted with matters of great importance , they are more likely to use the so-called central route to information processing , and rightly so .
issues of world cultural heritage , for example , deserve conscious , thoughtful deliberation of the facts .
indeed , it is our duty , and the very basis of any successful civilization , that important decisions are made only after scrutin izing all relevant information and weighing the relative merits of every position .
once that duty has been fulfilled , a logical person will understand that the par th en on mar bles , long held by a former imperial power ’ s flag ship museum , were violently sever ed from the rest of the par th en on s culp tures – an outrage against art and an un he aled sc ar inflicted by the british on the long- suffering greek people .
at that point , only one conclusion is possible : the pl under ed mar bles must be re united in their historical home and exhib ited to the world as the ancient artists intended .
persuaded ?
perhaps not – i am greek , after all .
but do not take clo on ey ’ s word for it , either ( or johnson ’ s ) .
deciding the dis position of the world ’ s cultural pat rim ony is not like buying a to ast er .
living big data
cambridge – big data is made from the digital trail that we leave behind when we use credit cards , mobile phones , or the web .
but what works in theory may not translate well in the real world , where complex human interactions can not always be captured , even by the most sophisticated models .
big data requires us to experiment on a big scale .
my own laboratory , for example , is building a web site which , based on google maps , uses society ’ s digital trail to map poverty , infant mortality , crime rates , changes in gdp , and other social indicators , neighborhood by neighborhood – all of which will be updated daily .
this new capability allows viewers to see , for example , where government initiatives are working or failing .
but , while such impressive vis u alization tools can dramatically enhance transparency and public knowledge , they are surprisingly limited when applied to solving society ’ s problems .
one reason is that such rich streams of data encourage spur ious cor relations .
even the use of the normal scientific method no longer works ; given so many measurements , and so many more potential connections among what ’ s being measured , our standard statistical tools generate non sens ical results .
without knowing all possible alternatives , we can not form a limited , test able set of clear hypo thes es .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test caus ality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data .
this involves moving beyond the closed , ques tion- and- answer process typical of the lab , and applying our ideas in society , earlier and more frequently than ever before .
to see how things work in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( to be blunt , to act as guinea pigs ) .
an example of such a living lab is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with the city of tr en to in italy , along with telec om ital ia , tel ef ó nic a , the research university f on da zi one brun o k ess ler , the institute for data driven design , and local companies .
importantly , this living lab has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment whose goal is to create a better way of living .
one major challenge for a living lab is to protect individual privacy without diminishing the potential for better government .
the tr en to lab , for example , will pilot my proposed “ new deal on data , ” which gives users greater control over their personal data through tru st- network software such as our open p ds ( personal data store ) system .
we hope that the ability to share data safely , while protecting privacy , will encourage individuals , companies , and governments to communicate their ideas widely , and so increase productivity and creativity across the entire city .
but the biggest difficulty in using big data to build a better society is being able to develop a human- scale , intuitive understanding of social physics .
although den se , continuous data and modern comput ation allow us to map many details about society , and to explain how communities might work , such raw mathematical models contain too many variables and complex relationships for most people to understand .
what is needed is some kind of dialogue between human intuition and the compelling reality of big data – a dialogue that is currently absent from management and government systems .
if big data is to be deployed effectively , people must be able to understand and interpret the relevant statistics .
this calls for a new understanding of human behavior and social dynamics that goes beyond traditional economic and political models .
only by developing the science and language of social physics will we be able to make a world of big data a world in which we want to live .
peril and promise in algeria
madrid – five years after the start of the so-called arab spring , the hope that initially characterized those revolutions has largely been dashed .
in many cases , the revolutions have evolved into brutal and protracted internal conflicts , with no solution in sight .
amid all of this strife , the international community has paid little attention to countries like algeria , where the revolutionary spirit was stifled while still incipient .
but algeria ’ s fate is back on the world ’ s radar – and not a moment too soon .
on february 7 , algeria ’ s parliament approved a new package of constitutional reforms , which , among other things , limit presidents to two terms ( president ab del aziz b out ef lik a , the last surviving leader of algeria ’ s war of independence against france , has been in office since 1999 ) and recognize some fundamental freedoms .
these steps , in the making since 2011 , aim to strengthen algeria ’ s democratic standing ; but they have been widely criticized as insufficient .
the “ consensus ” that supposedly shapes algerian politics has , in fact , paralyzed decision-making for many years now .
with the ailing b out ef lik a not seen in public for more than a year , important questions have emerged about how the 2019 presidential election will play out .
efforts over the last three years to curtail the power of the security and intelligence services – in september , mohamed medi ene , who had been chief of the intelligence services since 1990 , was forced to retire – are just one source and manifestation of domestic political tension .
significant external challenges have exacerbated algeria ’ s situation .
in particular , with the oil and gas industry accounting for fully 97 % of algeria ’ s export income , the sharp decline in oil prices since june 2014 has underscored the un sustainability of the country ’ s economic model .
falling oil revenues mean that algeria ’ s government can not maintain the broad array of subsidies that traditionally served as a social bal m , helping prevent protest .
the government has already had to increase some taxes , while raising prices for fuel , electricity , and gas .
if the price of oil does not rise soon , and algeria ’ s leaders are forced to take more drastic measures , social stability could be jeopardized .
to be sure , some factors may help to stave off social unrest – namely , the population ’ s memories of the brutal civil war of the 1990s , in which more than 15 0,000 people were killed .
but , memories fade as time passes , and a new generation of young people lack the same fear of social strife that their parents and grandparents have .
in this social context , and if economic hardship persists , protests and even revolt may not be a distant prospect .
to avoid such an outcome , algeria ’ s government must work fast to diversify the economy .
but such concerted action will be difficult in the current political environment , especially in view of the government ’ s increased focus on security challenges in algeria ’ s neighborhood .
given the revolution in tunisia , the war in libya , the rebellion of the tu a reg s in mali , and , most important , the 2013 terrorist attack on algeria ’ s large in am en as gas plant , the country ’ s leaders are placing an increasingly high priority on regional security .
although the constitution explicitly prohibits military intervention in other countries , algeria has a clear interest – reflected in its foreign policy – in ensuring that its neighbors are stable and capable of dissu ading extremist groups .
for example , in libya , algeria has defended a process of inclusive national reconciliation of all forces , in support of efforts by the united nations to stabilize the country .
the united states and europe have already recognized algeria ’ s leadership and cooperation in anti- terror efforts in its neighborhood .
for the european union , a further strengthening of ties with algeria is particularly important , given both sides ’ interest in the stability of nearby north africa and the sahel , as well as algeria ’ s potential to help improve the eu ’ s energy security .
one key way algeria can help improve security cooperation in its region would be to restore diplomatic relations with morocco .
true , the countries have been at log ger heads for 40 years , owing to their sovereignty dispute over western sahara .
but the economic , commercial , and security- related dividends that renewed cooperation would provide should be enough to persuade them to reconsider this position .
if the two north african giants were to recognize their mutual interests and reestablish ties , they would dis entang le relations in the maghreb .
algeria ’ s influence across africa would also receive a boost .
already , algeria ’ s afric a- wide influence may be set to grow .
some have suggested that an algerian candidate could become chair of the commission of the african union when the current term exp ires next july .
here , algeria ’ s consistent support for the au and its commitment to regional security – exemplified in its role in the mali peace agreement and its hosting of the libya talks – would speak in its favor .
if successful , algeria would become the first north african country to lead the au .
the severe challenge posed by falling oil prices and a jit tery regional context attest to the urgent need for change in algeria .
but if the government acts to un block the political system , diversify the economy , and ram p up diplomatic efforts , algeria can emerge stronger and more influential than ever .
washington , dc – around 1 200 bc , the sh ang dynasty in china developed a factory system to build thousands of huge bron ze vessels for use in everyday life and r itual ceremon ies .
in this early example of mass production , the process of bron ze casting required intr icate planning and the coordination of large groups of workers , each performing a separate task in precisely the right order .
a similarly complex process went into fash ioning the famous army of terr ac ott a warriors that q in shi hu ang , china ’ s first emperor , unveiled one thousand years later .
according to the asian art museum in san francisco , the stat ues “ were created using an assembly production system that paved the way for advances in mass production and commerce . ”
some scholars have spec ulated that these early forms of prescrip tive- work technologies played a large role in shaping chinese society .
among other things , they seem to have pre dis posed people to accept bureaucratic structures , a social philosophy emphasizing hierarchy , and a belief that there is a single right way of doing things .
when industrial factories were introduced in europe in the nineteenth century , even staunch critics of capitalism such as friedrich eng els acknowledged that mass production necess itated centralized authority , regardless of whether the economic system was capitalist or socialist .
in the twentieth century , theorists such as l ang don winner extended this line of thinking to other technologies .
he thought that the at om bomb , for example , should be considered an “ inherently political arti fact , ” because its “ lethal properties demand that it be controlled by a centralized , rig idly hierarchical chain of command . ”
today , we can take that thinking even further .
consider mach ine- learning algorithms , the most important gener al- purpose technology in use today .
using real-world examples to mim ic human cognitive capacities , these algorithms are already becoming ubiquitous in the workplace .
but , to capitalize fully on these technologies , organizations must redefine human tasks as prediction tasks , which are more suited to these algorithms ’ strengths .
a key feature of mach ine- learning algorithms is that their performance improves with more data .
as a result , the use of these algorithms creates a technological momentum to treat information about people as record able , accessible data .
like the system of mass production , they are “ inherently political , ” because their core func tionality demands certain social practices and discourages others .
in particular , mach ine- learning algorithms run directly counter to individuals ’ desire for personal privacy .
a system based on the public availability of information about individual community members might seem amenable to commun itar ians such as the sociologist am it ai et zion i , for whom limitations on privacy are a means to enforce social norms .
but , unlike commun itar ians , algorithms are indifferent to social norms .
their only concern is to make better predictions , by transforming more and more areas of human life into data sets that can be min ed .
moreover , while the force of a technological imperative turns individu alist westerners into accidental commun itar ians , it also makes them more beholden to a culture of meritocracy based on algorith m ic evalu ations .
whether it is at work , in school , or even on dating apps , we have already become accustomed to having our eligibility assessed by im personal tools , which then as sign us positions in a hierarchy .
to be sure , algorith m ic assessment is not new .
a generation ago , scholars such as os car h. gand y warned that we were turning into a scor ed- and- ranked society , and demanded more accountability and redress for technology-driven mistakes .
but , unlike modern mach ine- learning algorithms , older assessment tools were reasonably well understood .
they made decisions on the basis of relevant normative and empirical factors .
for example , it was no secret that accumulating a lot of credit card deb it could hurt one ’ s creditworthiness .
by contrast , new mach ine- learning technologies plum b the depths of large data sets to find cor relations that are predictive but poorly understood .
in the workplace , algorithms can track employees ’ conversations , where they eat lunch , and how much time they spend on the computer , telephone , or in meetings .
in an algorith m ic meritocracy , whatever the models demand becomes the new standard of excellence .
still , technology is not destiny .
we shape it before it shapes us .
business leaders and policymakers can develop and deploy the technologies they want , according to their institutional needs .
it is within our power to cast privacy nets around sensitive areas of human life , to protect people from the harmful uses of data , and to require that algorithms balance predictive accuracy against other values such as fairness , accountability , and transparency .
but if we follow the natural flow of algorith m ic logic , a more meritocratic and commun itarian culture will be inevitable .
and this steady transformation will have far-reaching implications for our democratic institutions and political structures .
as the china scholars daniel a . bell and z hang we i wei have noted , the major political alternative to western liberal- democratic traditions are the commun itarian institutions that continue to evolve in china .
in china , collective decisions are not legitim ated by citizens ’ explicit consent , and people generally have fewer enforceable rights against the government , particularly when it comes to surveillance .
an ordinary chinese citizen ’ s role in political life is largely limited to participation in local elections .
the country ’ s leaders , meanwhile , are selected through a meritocratic process , and consider themselves cust odi ans of the people ’ s welfare .
liberal democracies are not likely to shift entirely to such a political system .
but if current trends in business and consumer culture continue , we might soon have more in common with chinese meritocratic and commun itarian traditions than with our own history of individu alism and liberal democracy .
if we want to change course , we will have to put our own political imperatives before those of our technologies .
a sunni-shia bridge too far
baghdad – iraq ’ s recent parliamentary election , the first since united states troops left the country in 2011 , was held amid a rising tide of violence that is fast approaching the levels experienced during the 200 5- 2007 insurgency .
can the new government restore order and address the many immense challenges that iraq faces ?
the challenges are indeed daunting .
the authorities must resolve fundamental constitutional questions ( such as whether iraq should be a federal state or a confederation ) , rebuild civil society , reform state institutions , re construct the economy , and end the waste and corruption in the oil sector .
but perhaps the most intractable challenge of all is brid ging the sectarian rift between the country ’ s shia and sunni citizens .
these f issu res are mirr ored in other arab countries ( such as syria , lebanon , the gulf countries , and yemen ) and , increasingly , in the wider muslim world ( including pakistan , malaysia , and indonesia ) .
is this a historical aberr ation , or are islam ’ s two largest sec ts condemned to perpetual mutual hostility ?
certainly , there have been periods when the two communities have co existed peacefully .
but what matters today is that shia and sunni relate to their past differently , and that this historical memory can be distorted – and even invented – to create mistrust and hate .
the overthrow of the first muslim dynasty , the staun ch ly anti- shia u may y ads , in the year 750 , by the abb asi ds , who traced their line age to the prophet muhammad ’ s un cle , raised hopes , albeit short-lived , of a sunni-shia rapprochement .
the 500 years of abb asi d reign that followed provide many valuable illustr ations of how these two communities subsequently related to each other .
in particular , there is much to be learned from the different legacies of the cal ip h al- na sir ( 1 18 0- 12 25 ) and the last abb asi d cal ip h , al- mu st a ’ si m ( 12 4 2- 12 58 ) .
the rule of al- na sir – who viewed the shia as an intrinsic part of the islamic community and sought to treat all of his subjects equally – was characterized by a marked decrease in sectarian tensions .
by contrast , sunni-shia clashes – including killings , ar son , and other violence – were common during al- mu st a ’ si m ’ s rule .
iraq ’ s current political leaders need to learn from this past and ensure that none of the country ’ s communities face marginalization or discrimination – lessons that apply throughout the muslim world .
in pakistan , for example , there are sectarian killings almost daily ; in malaysia , the tiny shia population is viewed as an existential threat ; and incendiary language dominates discourse about rival sec ts in wahhabi circles in saudi arabia and far beyond .
politics and power struggles explain much of the violence and mistrust .
fear of iran ian- led hegemony , for example , has focused gulf leaders ’ minds on their shia population ’ s loyalty .
malaysia ’ s political parties use anti- shia anim us to spread fear , helping to attract votes and consolidate power .
syria and its regional allies are determined to protect a new regional balance of power that shifted in their favor following the us-led invasion of iraq .
but political calculation can not explain everything .
the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 provides a good example of how a political event , viewed through a sectarian lens , can be interpreted differently .
the us destruction of the iraqi state brought about a precarious new order that sought to redress years of sunni dominance by favoring the shia .
however , the shock of sudden sunni dis empowerment generated a discourse , widely shared in the muslim world , in which the shia are guilty of collusion in the us occupation of the country – a view reinforced by events in syria .
according to this thesis , the shia simply rever ted to their “ historic ” role as wrec kers and fifth column ists .
was it not the case , it is claimed , that the shia also coll u ded with the mon g ols in the fall of baghdad in 12 58 , culminating in the death of the last abb asi d cal ip h and the destruction of the abb asi d empire , the “ universal state ” of muslims ?
several medieval muslim historians pointed to the role of the shia v iz ier ib n al-  ‘ al q ami , arguing that he plo tted with the mon g ols to bring down the caliphate .
once the preserve of a handful of scholars , the ib n al-  ‘ al q ami story now plays a prominent part in today ’ s sunni - shia disputes .
indeed , “ ‘ al aq ima , ” the pl ural form of the arabic name “ ‘ al q ami , ” is now applied to the shia as short- hand for treach ery .
social media forums are replete with pol em ics about the shia role in assist ing both mon g ol and us inv aders .
many even claim that iraq ’ s shia are al-  ‘ al q ami ’ s descendants , and that nour i al- maliki , iraq ’ s prime minister , is his modern incar nation .
these di atri bes reflect iraqi ’ s polarized historical memory .
despite ample historical evidence of peaceful inter- communal relations , many people – whether through simple ignorance of history or the need to assert the supremacy of one version of the truth – prefer to con sec rate narratives of treach ery and betrayal that perpetuate hatred .
more important , the current situation reflects a lack of wisdom , responsibility , and basic decency on the part of political and religious leaders , who prefer to fuel , rather than dampen , inter- communal strife .
sadly , intolerance has now become a generalized condition .
there is too little knowledge about other communities ’ beliefs and history , and what little exists has been overwhelmed by sectarian anger and its poisonous rhetoric .
as long as sunnis and shia refuse to think about their past together , it is difficult to foresee a tran qu il future together .
and if political and religious leaders are unable or unwilling to seek accommodation , it will be up to like-minded individuals , groups , and civil-society institutions to rebuild mutual respect and find ways to cooperate .
doing so will require knowledge , patience , and , above all , open minds and hearts .
all in the family
munich – big economic crises often cause iconic companies to fal ter .
ru per t murdoch ’ s media empire is a model of the modern global enterprise .
a particularly dynamic and innovative business model came from outside and took over central aspects of british and then american public life .
the murdoch experience is a micro cos m of how modern globalization works .
murdoch always looked like a foreign intru sion into british life . it was not just that he was australian ; he also brought new ideas .
in particular , the application of digital technology , introduced after a fer o ci ous struggle with the powerful print unions , brought substantial cost savings and allowed a new era of journalism .
even more importantly , murdoch represented a concept of family business that is common in many parts of the world , but relatively rare in britain and the united states .
family capitalism in the continental european model uses relatively little capital to achieve maximum control .
it frequently depends on very complex corporate structures , with multiple layers of holding companies , as well as privileged shares that can guarantee the continuation of control .
this sort of firm is also very common in the most dynamic emerging-market economies in asia and latin america .
the murdoch family holds only 12 % of the shares of news corporation , the top- level holding company , but it wi elds about two- fifths of the voting rights ; other votes are held by a loyal saudi prince .
for decades , academic analysts have been fighting over whether such large-scale family businesses should be considered beneficial .
their defenders point out that such companies often have a much longer-term vision than is true of managerial capitalism , which enables them to establish strong and enduring relationships with their customers and suppliers .
at least in the case of the murdoch empire , it now appears that they pursue long and binding relationships with politicians and the police as well .
indeed , political entang lements are one of two sources of weakness in european- style family capitalism , as owners seek political advantages and preferred access as much as they strive for technical innovation .
murdoch ’ s empire depended on its clos eness to politicians .
in retrospect , three successive british prime ministers – tony blair , gordon brown , and david cameron – were on overly familiar terms with a manipul ative business leader .
cameron now talks about the need for “ a healthier relationship between politicians and media owners . ”
and murdoch apparently is now saying that he wishes that all these prime ministers would “ leave me alone . ”
the second notorious weakness of family businesses is the problem of succession .
when he appeared before the british parliament in july , ru per t murdoch looked like an old man , remote and out of control .
in old- style family firms , there is a clear rule of succession that the oldest son takes over .
but that rule is rightly recognized as being potentially dysfunctional .
there is obviously no guarantee that the oldest son is the best businessman , and the result could be bitter and fer o ci ous si bling rivalry .
such succession disputes become even more acute when there are multiple marri ages and multiple sets of competing children .
until the eruption of the current scandal , the youngest of murdoch ’ s three children from his second marriage , james , was generally believed to stand the greatest chance of succeeding his father .
the complexities of modern marriage patterns make family life much more fraught , especially when phenomen al power and huge sums of money are involved .
all three of murdoch ’ s marri ages have produced children , though those from his current relationship are too young to be considered potential corporate successors .
in addition , succession planning can become complicated by the emergence of “ substitute children ” from the company ’ s management .
re be k ah broo ks , the editor of the news of the world at the beginning of the ph one- hacking scandal , and subsequently the chief executive of news international , murdoch ’ s british subsidiary , played precisely such a role .
the disintegration of the business empire is then accompanied and amplified by bitter disputes between the children and the substitute children .
indeed , the crisis of the murdoch family ’ s business empire is neither unique nor unprecedented .
after the 1997-1998 asia crisis , and as authoritarian regimes in south korea and indonesia dis integrated , these relationships were suddenly interpreted as corrupt , and the counter- view – that “ crony capitalism ” had become entrenched in these countries – soon prevailed .
the arab spring has been in large part a movement against corrupt family capitalism , embodied not only in ruling families like the ben al is , the mu bar aks , and the ass ads , but also in the large family business empires that depended on and supported them .
as a result of globalization , large family firms could increase their size and their geographic range .
but globalization also increases the chances of backl ashes that focus on the vulnerabilities , weaknesses , and mistakes of big family firms .
they are vulnerable to an arab spring ( and a british summer ) – and maybe to a us autumn that will focus not just on the murdo ch s ’ business , but also on its inter play with politics .
all man ’ s land
new delhi – ern est h em ing way ’ s collection of stories , men without women , exam ines tense gender relationships .
in a particularly po ign ant story , a young man convin ces his partner to have an abortion , viewing their un born child as a hin dr ance to the status quo . frustrated , the woman gives in .
that story , published more than 80 years ago , remains relevant today in india , where female fet uses face severe risks .
according to the 2011 census , the sex ratio of the country ’ s children has di pped from 9 27 fem ales per 10 00 males to 9 14 , a 60- year low .
ratios in the northern states are particularly alarming : only him achal pradesh now has a ratio of girls to boys above 900 .
despite being illegal , ul tr as ound sex - determination tests are being used across india to identify for abortion extraordinary numbers of healthy female fet uses .
but there are serious concerns about legal operations , too .
gen it op la sty – a sex - change operation on newborn girls – is a mush ro oming , and deeply disturbing , business in india .
there ’ s only one word for it : g end er cide .
left unchecked , it will leave india ’ s next generation of men with a severe shortage of women .
indian couples have a strong cultural preference , bordering on obsession , for sons over daughters – despite the strides in education and employment that women have made over the last few decades .
education and wealth have nothing to do with it – in fact , some of the worst- affected areas are in india ’ s wealthiest cities .
however dis com f iting a possibility , the real culprit might be indian culture and tradition itself .
the expenses and pressure of the d ow ry system , and the fact that , in most joint families , only sons inherit property and wealth , contribute to this favor iti sm .
perhaps just as important is that sons typically live with their parents even after they are married , and assume responsibility for parents in their old age .
daughters , who live with their in- laws after they marry , are viewed as am an at – someone else ’ s property .
in short , sons represent income and daughters an expense .
in the old days , when families typically had 5-10 children , this didn ’ t matter so much .
the number of sons and daughters often ev ened out .
but , for today ’ s smaller families , whether the children are two boys or two girls influences everything from financial planning to preparations for old age .
many have argued that indian women should stand up to their families and refuse to abor t their daughters .
but indian women want male children just as much .
unlike h em ing way ’ s character , they are often more than willing to abor t a girl and try for a boy .
this raises other questions concerning the consequences of a large shortage of girls .
will women be valued and treas ured ?
or will the over supply of men result in more br ide trafficking , sexual violence , and female suic ides ?
ni all fer gus on , the british historian , cites scholars who attribute japan ’ s imperial expansion after 1914 to a male youth bul ge , and who link the rise of islamist extremism to an islamic youth bul ge .
“ maybe the coming generation of asian men without women will find harm less outlets for their inevitable frustrations , like team sports or video games .
but i doubt it , ” he writes .
he warns us not to be surprised if , in the coming generation , “ shr ill nationalism is replaced by mach o militarism or even imperialism . ”
unfortunately , there is no instant solution .
saving our girls will require radically altering some of indian society ’ s family arrangements , traditions , and attitudes .
and there is no easy way to accomplish this .
legislation alone won ’ t help , for tradition is a law un to itself .
hindu religious law , for example , allows a woman to claim an equal share in her parents ’ wealth , but few exercise this right .
culturally , she feels that she does not have an equal claim on her father ’ s property .
nonetheless , india does need new laws – direct and enforceable – that cl amp down on the cultural practices that underpin destructive traditions .
for example , india could enforce a ceiling on we dding expenditure – typically a father ’ s biggest expense associated with his daughter .
constrained from spending on the we dding , he would compensate her differently – perhaps with a larger inheritance .
gradually , this would become the norm , and tradition would adjust accordingly .
( interestingly , the state of kerala , whose people adhere to mat r il ine al inheritance , has among the most equal sex ratios and literacy rates in india . )
a more radical measure , which some have advocated , would be direction intervene , with the state providing benefits for families with more girls .
perhaps the authorities could also penalize families with boys , at least temporarily .
india imag ines herself as a woman – bhar at mat a , or mother india .
the irony is that , unless far-reaching changes are made soon , mother india could eventually be the only woman left in the country .
all stimulus roads lead to china
beijing – now that the “ green shoots ” of recovery have with ered , the debate over fiscal stimulus is back with a vengeance .
in the united states , those who argue for another stimulus package observe that it was always wishful thinking to believe that a $ 7 87 billion package could offset a $ 3 trillion fall in private spending .
but unemployment has risen even faster and further than expected .
combine this with the continued fall in housing prices , and it is understandable that consumer spending remains depressed .
the banks , having been recapit alized only to the extent necessary to keep them afloat , still have weak balance sheets .
their consequ ent reluctance to lend constr ains investment .
if there was a case for additional stimulus back in february , that case is even stronger now .
but the case against additional stimulus is also strong .
the us federal deficit is an alarming 12 % of gdp , and public debt as a share of national income is already projected to double , to 80 % of gdp .
the idea that the us can grow out of its debt burden , as did finland and sweden following their financial crises in the 1990 ’ s , seems unrealistic .
given all this , more deficit spending will only stoke fears of higher future taxes and inflation .
it will encourage the re emergence of global imbalances .
and it will not reassure consumers or investors .
it is possible to argue the economics both ways , but the politics all point in one direction .
the us congress lacks the stomach for another stimulus package .
it has already faced intense criticism for its failure to get the country ’ s fiscal house in order .
the slow ness with which the first stimulus has been rolled out , and the fact that it will take even more time for its full effects to be felt , provides more fo d der for the ch at tering classes .
disappointment over the effects of the tar p has already destroyed popular – and congressional – support for more public money to recapitalize the banks .
so , even those who find the economic logic of arguments for fiscal activism compelling must acknowledge that the politics are not supportive .
a second stimulus simply is not in the cards .
if there is going to be more aggregate demand , it can come from only one place .
that place is not europe or japan , where debts are even higher than in the us – and the demographic preconditions for servicing them less favorable .
rather , it is emerging markets like china .
the problem is that china has already done a lot to stimulate domestic demand , both through government spending and by directing its banks to lend .
as a result , its stock market is fro thy , and it is experiencing an alarming property boom .
through may , property prices were up 18 % year on year .
understandably , chinese officials worry about bubble trouble .
the obvious way to square this circle is to spend more on imports .
china can purchase more industrial machinery , transport equipment , and ste el making material , which are among its leading imports from the us .
directing spending toward imports of capital equipment would avoid overheating china ’ s own markets , boost the economy ’ s productive capacity ( and thus its ability to grow in the future ) , and support demand for us , european , and japanese products just when such support is needed most .
this strategy is not without risks .
allowing the renminbi to appreciate as a way of encouraging imports may also discourage exports , the traditional motor of chinese growth .
and lowering administrative barriers to imports might redirect more spending toward foreign goods than the authorities intend .
but these are risks worth taking if china is serious about assuming a global leadership role .
the question is what china will get in return .
china is worried that its more than $ 1 trillion investment in us treasury securities will not hold its value .
it wants reassurance that the us will stand behind its debts . it therefore wants to see a credible program for balancing the us budget once the recession ends .
and , tough talk notwithstanding , the obama administration has yet to offer a credible roadmap for fiscal consolidation .
doing so would reassure american taxpayers worried about current deficits . just as importantly , it would reassure chinese policymakers .
we live in a multipolar world where neither the us nor china is large enough to exercise global economic leadership on its own .
for china , leadership means assuming additional risks .
but for this to be tolerable , the us needs to relieve china of existing risks .
only by working together can the two countries lead the world economy out of its current dol drums .
a long march with china
beijing – us vice president joe biden ’ s recent four- day visit to china ended on a high note .
he assured chinese leaders that the united states is committed to hon oring all its debts , despite its recent credit downgrade ; he talked enthusiastically about us-china interdependence ; and he show cas ed his grand daughter , who has studied chinese for several years , as a future bridge between the two countries .
but , behind all the s miles and ban qu et to asts , serious issues and perception gaps continue to divide the world ’ s two great powers .
for starters , there is always an attitude problem .
to those who view china ’ s rise in a negative light , the country is simply becoming ever more arrogant . it is getting tough in its territorial disputes with japan in the east china sea ; it is becoming assertive in the south china sea with its neighbors , also over disputed islands ; it put its own ste alth fighter on display during the us defense secretary ’ s visit to china ; it is sending its first aircraft carrier out to sea for trials , indicating the possibility of establishing naval bases in the indian ocean .
even a bra w l between the chinese and a visiting american bas ke t ball team is viewed as evidence of china ’ s aggressive behavior .
many chinese , on the other hand , tend to think that the us is suffering from severe case of conce ited superpower syndrome .
as these chinese see it , the us has a rather dysfunctional government , but nevertheless insists that its political and economic system is the best in the world , and that everyone should emulate it .
it is heavily in debt , but can not stop spending and borrowing .
it is no longer competitive in manufacturing , but blames others for its huge trade deficit .
and the world ’ s only military superpower is often seen within china as trigger - happy when intervening in other countries ’ internal affairs .
then , there is the issue of trust .
china ’ s critics argue that its claims to a peaceful rise are not credible , given the country ’ s non- democratic , one-party system .
coupled with this is a zero-sum view of the world , in which any chinese gain in the share of the global economy , or any increased presence in many parts of the world , must be at the expense of the us or other powers .
any chinese military move is portrayed as an expansionary and aggressive act that must be contained .
any attempts at engagement by western politicians , such as biden ’ s recent trip , are automatically met with doubt and criticism for co z ying up to dictators .
likewise , for those chinese who are suspicious of us intentions , conspiracy is always in play .
they see a declining superpower using economic , military , and diplomatic means in an un rel enting effort to prevent china ’ s rise .
talk of human rights and democracy is nothing but a smoke screen for demon izing china .
arms sales to taiwan , tibetan activism , and “ color revolutions ” of various kinds are all sponsored by the us and other western powers , and are aimed at weakening china .
increased interdependence has not led to better understandings on even some of the most basic issues .
china ’ s vice minister of foreign affairs fu  ying expressed her country ’ s anxiety about this state of affairs in a recent interview . “ the most important thing is the question of whether china and the us are enemies .
are we going to be in a war ?
are we preparing for a war against each other ? ”
biden , while reaffir ming that the us does not view china as an enemy , implied that fu  ’ s worries are not fanciful , saying that the worst scenario is a misunderstanding that leads to an unintended conflict .
so the key issue for china , its neighbors , the us , and rest of the world is not how many aircraft carriers , missiles , submarines , and next- generation fighters china may produce and deploy in the coming years and decades . rather , it is how china intends to use its newly acquired economic and military strength in pursuing its domestic and foreign-policy goals – and how the world ’ s leading powers can ensure that they do not end up harming each other by accident or misunderstanding .
to meet these challenges successfully , there is no viable alternative to a positive , continuous , and frank engagement between china and the rest of the world .
the chinese economy will continue to grow ; the chinese military will continue to modernize ; and the chinese people will remain united in their great power aspirations .
a cold war- style confrontation and containment policy from the west will be met with strong resistance from the chinese , whose global leverage , particularly in finance , can not be ignored .
only a patient , creative , and consistent engagement strategy will mitigate fears on both sides .
china ’ s rise is a fact ; the enduring peac efulness of that rise must be a priority for china , its neighbors , the west , and , most importantly , the us .
inequality on the horizon of need
berkeley – by any economic measure , we are living in disappointing times .
in the united states , 7. 2 % of the normal productive labor currently stands idle , while the employment gap in europe is rising and due to exceed that of the us by the end of the year .
so it is important to step back and remind ourselves that the “ lost decade ” that we are currently suffering is not our long-run economic destiny .
as paul krugman recently reminded us , john maynard keynes perhaps put it best :
“ this is a nightmare , which will pass away with the morning .
for the resources of nature and men ’ s devices are just as fertile and productive as they were .
the rate of our progress towards solving the material problems of life is not less rapid .
we are as capable as before of affor ding for everyone a high standard of life – high , i mean , compared with , say , 20 years ago – and will soon learn to afford a standard higher still .
we were not previously dece ived .
but today we have involved ourselves in a colossal muddle , having bl under ed in the control of a delicate machine , the working of which we do not understand .
the result is that our possibilities of wealth may run to waste for a time . ”
but what is our long-run economic destiny ?
keynes looked forward to a time , perhaps 2050 , when everyone ( in england , at least ) would be able to have the lifestyle of a keynes .
and , because he imagined that no san e person could want more of the nec essi ties , conveni ences , and lux uries of life than a keynes had , the economic problem would be solved .
we are wiser – and perhaps sadd er – than keynes .
we know that we want hi p re plac ements and heart trans plants and fertility treatment and cheap air travel and central heating and broadband internet and exclusive be ach front access .
already nearly everybody in the north atlantic region has enough food to avoid hunger , enough clothing to stay warm , enough shelter to remain dry .
so the economic problem will certainly be with us for a long time yet .
but at least we can count on being able to generate a relatively egalitarian middle-class society as we collectively sl ou ch toward our consum er ist ut opia , right ?
it was karl smith of the university of north carolina who explained to me that this was likely to be wrong .
the long post- industrial revolution boom , which carried unskilled workers ’ wages to previously un hear d- of heights – keeping them within shou ting ( or at least dre aming ) distance of the lifestyles of the rich and famous – is not necessarily a good guide to what will come next .
to create wealth , you need ideas about how to shape matter and energy , additional energy itself to carry out the shaping , and instr um ent alities to control the shaping as it is accomplished .
the industrial revolution brought ideas and energy to the table , but human brains remained the only effective instr um ent alities of control .
as ideas and energy became cheap , the human brains that were their compl ements became valuable .
but , as we move into a future of artificial intelligence that observers like kevin dr um expect ( or even of the artificial mor on ity that is already clearly at hand ) , and into a future of biotechnology that grows itself as biological systems do , won ’ t human brains cease to be the only valuable instr um ent alities of control ?
it is not necessarily the case that “ unskilled ” workers ’ standards of living will fall in absolute terms : the same factors that make human brains less valuable may well be working equally effectively to reduce the costs of life ’ s nec essi ties , conveni ences , and lux uries .
but wealth is likely to flow to the owners of productive – or perhaps fashionable – ideas , and to owners of things that can be im itated only with great difficulty and high cost , even with dir t- cheap instr um ent alities of control , dir t- cheap energy , and plentiful ideas .
the lesson is clear : the market is not guaranteed by nature to produce a long-run future characterized by a reasonable degree of wealth inequality and relative poverty .
unless and until we recognize this fully , we will remain at the mercy of keynes ’ s poorly understood “ delicate machine . ”
al p ine sch aden fre ude
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’ s world economic forum was grim .
those who think that globalization , technology , and the market economy will solve the world ’ s problems seemed subdued .
most ch ast ened of all were the bankers .
against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , the disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less om nis ci ent than they did a short while ago .
and it was not just the bankers who were in the davos dog house this year , but also their regulators – the central bankers .
anyone who goes to international conferences is used to hearing americans lecture everyone else about transparency .
there was still some of that at davos .
i heard the usual suspects – including a former treasury secretary who had been particularly vo ci fer ous in such ad mon ishments during the east asia crisis – bang on about the need for transparency at sovereign wealth funds ( though not at american or european hedge funds ) .
but this time , developing countries could not resist comm enting on the hypocrisy of it all . there was even a touch of sch aden fre ude in the air about the problems the united states is having right now – though it was moderated , of course , by worries about the downturn ’ s impact on their own economies .
had america really told others to bring in american banks to teach them about how to run their business ?
had america really boasted about its superior risk management systems , going so far as to develop a new regulatory system ( called bas le ii ) ?
bas le ii is dead – at least until memories of the current disaster fade .
bankers – and the rating agencies – believed in financial al chem y .
they thought that financial innovations could somehow turn bad mortgages into good securities , mer iting a aa ratings .
but one lesson of modern finance theory is that , in well functioning financial markets , re packaging risks should not make much difference .
if we know the price of cre am and the price of sk im milk , we can figure out the price of milk with 1 % cre am , 2 % cre am , or 4 % cre am .
it seemed too good to be true – and it was .
worse , banks failed to understand the first principle of risk management : diversification only works when risks are not correlated , and macro- shocks ( such as those that affect housing prices or borrowers ’ ability to repay ) affect the probability of default for all mortgages .
i argued at davos that central bankers also got it wrong by mis judging the threat of a downturn and failing to provide sufficient regulation .
they waited too long to take action .
because it normally takes a year or more for the full effects of monetary policy to be felt , central banks need to act preemp tively , not re actively .
worse , the us federal reserve and its previous chairman , alan greenspan , may have helped create the problem , encouraging households to take on risky vari able- rate mortgages by reassuring those who worried about a housing bubble that there was at most a little “ fro th ” in the market .
normally , a davos audience would rally to the support of the central bankers .
this time , a vote at the end of the session supported my view by a margin of three to one .
even the ple a of one of central banker that “ no one could have predicted the problems ” moved few in the audience – perhaps because several people sitting there had , like me , explicitly warned about the impending problem in previous years .
the only thing we got wrong was how bad banks ’ lending practices were , how non- transparent banks really were , and how inadequate their risk management systems were .
it was interesting to see the different cultural attitudes to the crisis on display .
in japan , the ceo of a major bank would have apolog ized to his employees and his country , and would have refused his pension and bonus so that those who suffered as a result of corporate failures could share the money .
he would have resigned .
in america , the only questions are whether a board will force a ceo to leave and , if so , how big his sever ance package will be .
when i asked one ceo whether there was any discussion of returning their bonuses , the response was not just no , but an aggressive defense of the bonus system .
this is the third us crisis in the past 20 years , after the savings & loan crisis of 1989 and the en ron / world com crisis in 2002 .
deregulation has not worked .
unfettered markets may produce big bonuses for ceo ’ s , but they do not lead , as if by an invisible hand , to societal well-being .
until we achieve a better balance between markets and government , the world will continue to pay a high price .
effective altruism
princeton – can humans really be motivated by altruism ?
my new book , the most good you can do , discus ses the emerging new movement called effective altruism , and , in doing interviews about the book , i am surprised by how often that question is asked .
why should we doubt that some people act altru istically , at least some of the time ?
in evolutionary terms , we can easily understand altruism toward kin and others who can reciproc ate our help .
it seems plausible that once our ability to reason and reflect has developed sufficiently enough to enable us to understand that strangers can suffer and enjoy life just as we can , then at least some of us would act altru istically toward strangers , too .
the polling organization gallup asked people in 1 35 countries whether they had , in the last month , donated money to a charity , volunte ered their time to an organization , or helped a stranger .
gallup ’ s results , which form the basis of the world giving index 2014 , indicate that approximately 2.3 billion people , a third of the world ’ s population , perform at least one altruistic act per month .
more objective evidence of altruism butt res ses these findings .
in many countries , the supply of blood for medical purposes relies on voluntary , anonymous donations .
a small but growing number of people have gone further still , don ating a kidney to a stranger .
there were 17 7 altruistic donations by living donors in the united states in 2013 and 1 18 in the united kingdom in the year to april 2014 .
then there are those who don ate to charity .
in the us alone , individuals gave $ 2 40 billion to charity in 2013 .
foundations and corporations top ped this up to a total of $ 3 35 billion , or about 2 % of gross national income .
the us is often said to be more charitable than other countries ; but , in terms of the proportion of the population don ating money , myanmar , mal ta , ireland , the uk , canada , the netherlands , and iceland all do better .
in myanmar , 91 % of the people surveyed had given money in the past month ( the corresponding figure for the us is 68 % ) , indicating the strong hold of the ther av ada buddhist tradition of don ating to support monks and n un s .
myanmar also had the highest percentage of people volunte ering time ( 51 % ) .
the us did , however , have the highest ranking for “ helping a stranger . ”
that , together with a high ranking for volunte ering time , led it to tie with myanmar as the most generous nation in the world .
admittedly , not all of this giving is altruistic .
new york ’ s lincoln center announced last month that the billionaire entertainment industry mo gul david ge ff en has donated $ 100 million toward the ren ov ation of its concert facility , a very fish er hall , on the condition that it is ren amed david ge ff en hall .
that gift seems motivated more by a desire for f ame than a desire to do good .
after all , as ge ff en presumably knew , the family of a very fish er had to be compensated with a payment of $ 15 million in order to agree to the ren aming .
in any case , in a world with a billion people living in extreme poverty , it would not be difficult for an altru ist to appreciate that there are many ways of doing more good than ren ov ating a concert hall for well- off music lo vers .
at the opposite end of the giving spectrum , psychologists who study giving behavior have suggested that people who give small sums of money to a large number of charities may be motivated less by the desire to help others than by the warm g low they get from making a don ation .
by contrast , other donors give larger sums , usually to only a handful of charities chosen on the basis of some knowledge about what the charity is doing .
they want to have a positive impact on the world .
their gifts may also make their lives better , but this is not what motiv ates them .
the effective altruism movement consists of people who give in the latter way , combining the head and the heart .
their aim is to do the most good they can with the resources that they are willing to set aside for that purpose .
those resources may include a tenth , a quarter , or even half of their income .
their altruism may include their time and talents , and influence their choice of career .
to achieve their aims , they use reason and evidence to ensure that whatever resources they devote to doing good will be as effective as possible .
several studies show that people who are generous are typically happier and more satisfied with their lives than those who do not give .
and other studies show that giving leads to activity in the reward centers of the brain ( the areas of the brain that are also stimulated by tast y food and sex ) .
but this does not mean that these donors are not altruistic .
their direct motive is to help others , and their giving makes them happier only as a consequence of the fact that it does help others .
if we had more such people , we would have more giving , and that is what we want .
testing times for alzhe imer ’ s
london – alzhe imer ’ s disease is by far the most common cause of dem enti a and one of the world ’ s most feared disorders .
by 2050 , there will be 1 35 million alzhe imer ’ s suffer ers worldwide , a thre ef old increase from today , with three-quarters of cases occurring in low- and middle-income countries .
predicting the onset of alzhe imer ’ s , let alone preventing or curing it , remains an immense challenge .
alzhe imer ’ s disease was identified more than a century ago from aut op sy results that showed characteristic brain les ions called “ am y lo id pl aqu es . ”
the disease is more difficult to diagn ose in the living .
doctors rely on observation of memory loss and other thinking deficits ( such as reasoning or language compreh ension ) – signs that pl aqu es are already present in the brain .
but any cure would have to be administered before the pl aqu es form , and years before symptoms of dem enti a appear .
alzhe imer ’ s might be more predictable if scientists had the time and resources to conduct far-reaching long it ud inal studies over many years .
such studies ideally would involve blood , im aging , memory , and medical tests , as well as detailed lifestyle question na ires filled out by thousands of young and middle-aged people .
study participants would be followed over decades to see who developed the disease , and which tests proved positive before alzhe imer ’ s was diagnosed .
in fact , two famous long it ud inal studies – the fram ing ham heart study in massachusetts and the k un g sh ol men project in sweden – have led to important progress in predicting the disease .
these studies found that short-term memory may be impaired for up to ten years before an alzhe imer ’ s diagnosis .
major advances have since been made in brain im aging , bio chemical analysis , and , perhaps most important , genetic testing .
indeed , the risk of alzhe imer ’ s dou bles if a parent or si bling has it , probably due in large part to the presence of the apo e gene .
the risk tri ples for europeans who inherit a particular type of apo e , called ε 4 ; inher iting two copies of ε 4 increases the risk roughly ten fold .
but genetic testing alone is unlikely to be an accurate predic tor , because around half of alzhe imer ’ s suffer ers do not carry ε 4 , and probably half of those with ε 4 do not develop the disease .
moreover , though international studies of more than 7 0,000 people have found over 20 other genes linked to alzhe imer ’ s , their impact is minimal .
that said , a groundbreaking 2012 study published in the new england journal of medicine , analyzed a rare genetic mutation found in just 500 families around the world , which would lead to alzhe imer ’ s before the age of 50 .
the study showed which tests were able to predict the outcome most accurately decades ahead of onset .
the research found that am y lo id- bet a – the substance that cl umps together and forms am y lo id pl aqu es – becomes depleted in the cer e bro sp inal fluid around the brain as long as 25 years before the onset of dem enti a .
fifteen years prior to onset , a pos it ron emission tom o graphy ( pet ) s can showed am y lo id- bet a being depos ited in pl aqu es in the brain itself .
and detailed short-term memory tests were abnormal ten years before onset , as suggested in the fram ing ham and k un g sh ol men studies .
these tests are now becoming part of clinical practice , and are available commercially .
memory and other cognitive tests can reveal whether one has minor problems with some aspects of thinking – a condition known as “ mild cognitive impa ir ment ” that preced es alzhe imer ’ s disease .
the problem is that the tests must be administered by a trained neuro psych ologist and take more than an hour to complete ; moreover , many people with mild cognitive impa ir ment do not progress to dem enti a .
sam pling cer e bro sp inal fluid via a l umb ar pun c ture ( or “ sp inal tap ” ) can predict which people with mild cognitive impa ir ment will progress to dem enti a with over 80 % accuracy , but this still means a mis diagnosis for one in five patients .
pet sc ans are slightly less accurate , while routine m ri brain sc ans can reveal with perhaps only 70 % accuracy subtle ab normal ities in people with mild cognitive impa ir ment .
scientists are therefore still searching for an accurate predictive test that is cheaper , quick er , and less invasive than pet sc ans or l umb ar pun c tures .
wh ich ever predictive methods doctors use over the next few years will probably enable them to inform those patients with mild cognitive impa ir ment about their chances of developing alzhe imer ’ s in the short term .
the trick ier question is whether we will be able to predict alzhe imer ’ s disease accurately in those with normal cogn ition and memory , or to predict it more than five years in advance .
even if accurate early prediction of alzhe imer ’ s eventually is achieved , there are currently no drugs available to prevent or cure it before the am y lo id pl aqu es start destroying the mind .
that will be our next great challenge .
africa ’ s necessary data revolution
washington , dc – since the term “ data revolution ” was introduced , there has been a fl ur ry of activity to define , develop , and implement an agenda to transform the collection , use , and distribution of development statistics .
that makes sense .
assessing the international community ’ s next development agenda , regardless of its details , will be impossible without accurate data .
yet , in sub-saharan africa – the region with the most potential for progress under the forthcoming sustainable development goals – accurate data are severely lacking .
from 1990 to 2009 , only one sub-saharan country had data on all 12 indicators established in 2000 by the millennium development goals .
indeed , of the 60 countries with complete vital statistics , not one is in africa .
while most african countries have likely experienced economic growth during the last decade , the accuracy of the data on which growth estimates are based – not to mention data on inflation , food production , education , and vaccination rates – remains far from adequate .
inaccurate data can have serious consequences .
consider nigeria ’ s experience earlier this year , when gdp re basing showed that the economy was nearly 90 % larger than previously thought .
the distorted picture of nigeria ’ s economy provided by the previous statistics likely led to misguided decisions regarding private investment , credit ratings , and taxation .
moreover , it meant that nigeria was allocated more international aid than it mer ited – aid that could have gone to ne edi er countries .
contrary to popular belief , the constraints on the production and use of basic data stem not from a shortage of technical capacity and knowhow , but from underlying political and systemic challenges .
for starters , national statistical offices often lack the institutional autonomy needed to protect the integrity of data , production of which thus tends to be influenced by political forces and special interest groups .
poorly designed policies also undermine the accuracy of data .
for example , governments and donors sometimes tie funding to self- reported measures , which creates incentives for recipients to over- report key data like vaccination or school- enrollment rates .
without effective oversight , these well-intentioned efforts to reward progress can go a wr y .
despite these failings , national governments and international donors continue to devote far too few resources to ensuring the collection of adequate data .
only 2 % of official development aid is ear marked for improving the quality of statistics – an amount wholly insufficient to assess accurately the impact of the other 98 % of aid .
and governments ’ dependency on donors to fund and gather their core statistics is unsustainable .
in fact , stronger national statistical systems are the first step toward improving the accuracy , tim el iness , and availability of the data that are essential to calculating almost any major economic or social-welfare indicator .
these include statistics on births and deaths ; growth and poverty ; tax and trade ; health , education , and safety ; and land and the environment .
developing such systems is an ambitious but achievable goal .
all that is needed is a willingness to experiment with new approaches to collecting , using , and sharing data .
this is where the public comes in .
while it may be tempting to bypass government and hope for an easy technology- based solution , sustainable , credible progress will be difficult without public-sector involvement .
the recognition by governments and external donors of the need for more – and more efficient – funding , particularly to national statistical systems , will be integral to such a shift .
establishing stronger incentives for agencies to produce good data – that is , data that are accurate , timely , relevant , and readily available – would also help , with clearly del ine ated metrics defining what qual ifies as “ good . ”
in fact , tying progress on those metrics to funding via pay-for- performance agreements could improve development outcomes considerably .
one concrete strategy to achieve these goals would be to create a country- donor compact for better data .
such a compact would enable governments and donors to express their shared intention to build a national statistics system over a period of several years , with clear and verifiable milest ones .
it would also provide a country- specific framework for innovation on funding mechanisms and the engagement of civil society and the private sector , while mobilizing new technologies for data collection and dissem ination .
in short , a data compact would help to mobilize and focus domestic and donor funding to achieve national statistical priorities .
data are the currency of performance , accountability , and credibility in the global economy , and improvements in data have been linked to better governance and higher levels of private investment .
that is just what africa needs to support a new decade of growth and development .
the experts ’ advantage
london – nearly everyone who sits on google ’ s board of directors has at least one computer science or engineering degree or doc tor ate .
there are two university presidents and eminent scholars – stanford university ’ s john hen n ess y and former princeton university president shir ley til gh man – and several members of the national academy of engineering and other illustr ious organizations .
for google , it pays to have technical expertise at the top .
but google is an unusual corporate giant in promoting those with scientific prowess to the top of the management ladder .
beyond silicon valley , few senior corporate executives boast technical expertise in the products that their companies produce .
american boar dro oms are filled with m bas , especially from harvard , while firms in the rest of the developed world ( with the possible exception of germany ) seem to prefer professional managers over technical or scientific talent .
nowadays , it seems as anomal ous to have knowledge workers serve as professional leaders as it once did to have scientists in the boar dro om .
it was previously thought that leadership is less necessary in knowledge- intensive organizations , where experts were assumed to be superior because they were motivated by intellectual pleasure rather than such extr ins ic motivations as profit growth and cost targets .
this difference in attitude is evident in many areas of society , not least in hospitals in the united states and the united kingdom , where knowledge- intensive medical practitioners operate separately from managers .
hospitals used to be run by doctors ; today , only 5 % of us hospitals ’ ceos are medical doctors , and even fewer doctors run uk hospitals .
“ medicine should be left to the doctors , ” according to a common refrain , “ and organizational leadership should be left to professional managers . ”
but this is a mistake .
research shows that higher- performing us hospitals are likely to be led by doctors with outstanding research reputations , not by management professionals .
the evidence also suggests that hospitals perform better , and have lower death rates , when more of their managers up to board level are clin ically trained .
we see similar findings in other fields .
my research shows that the world ’ s best universities , for example , are likely to be led by exceptional scholars whose performance continues to improve over time .
depar t ment al- level analysis supports this .
a university economics department , for example , tends to perform better the more widely its head ’ s own research is cited .
but , as the academic saying goes : just because you can not herd c ats , does not mean there is not a fel ine hierarchy .
as with c ats , academics operate a “ relative hierarchy ” in which the person in charge changes , depending on the setting .
even in the world of sports , where success is not an obvious preparation for management , we see interesting linkages between experience and organizational performance .
the very best n ba bas ke t ball players often make top co aches , while former formula 1 champion drivers are associated with great team performance .
of the 92 soccer clubs in the english football league , club managers played an average of 16 years in senior clubs .
alex  fer gus on , arguably britain ’ s best manager , scored an average of one goal every two games in his professional career .
but where the pattern does occur , especially in the business world , we should take note .
the senior partner of any professional services firm is likely to have been a top per former during a long career with the firm .
this might be because experts and professionals in knowledge- intensive organizations prefer a boss who has exc elled in their field .
the leader ’ s credibility is vital : if she sets high standards , it seems only right that she should have matched or exceeded them herself .
in short , she must lead by example .
this sort of leadership arrangement creates a virtuous circle .
a leader with prior experience knows how her subordin ates feel , how to motivate them , and how to create the right working environment .
she probably makes better hiring decisions , too – after all , the best scientist or physician is more likely than a professional manager to know which researchers or doctors have the greatest potential .
the problem , however , is not simply that today ’ s leaders lack technical knowledge ; it is that experts are often reluctant to lead .
but that can change .
by communicating the importance of management and leadership early in a speci alist ’ s career , and by offering tailored , dig esti ble , and jarg on- free training , we could bridge the gap .
many medical schools are already considering including management education as part of the curriculum .
the trick is to get experts , who are trained to go ever deeper into their specialization , to step back and view the big picture .
with the right preparation , there is no reason why a leader can not speci alize and manage .
the results could be remarkable .
think of how governments run by scientists with management skills might respond to climate change .
top minds should be put to top use .
a man ia for diagnos ing bipolar disorder
provid ence , ri – during the past few years , many experts have suggested that bipolar disorder – a serious illness resulting in significant psych os o cial mor b idity and excess mortality – is under- recognized , particularly in patients with major depression .
even patients who are diagnosed with bipolar disorder often wait more than 10 years after initially seeking treatment for the correct diagnosis to be made .
the clinical implications of the failure to recognize bipolar disorder in depressed patients include the under- prescription of mo od- stabilizing medications , and an increased risk of rapid “ cycl ing ” – swings between man ic and depressive phases .
but , perhaps as a consequence of concerted efforts to improve the recognition of bipolar disorder , during the past few years we have observed the emergence of an opposite phenomenon – over- diagnosis .
in my own practice , my colleagues and i have encountered patients who reported that they were previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder , despite lacking a history of man ic or hyp om anic episodes .
however , there seemed to be more over- diagnosis than under- diagnosis .
we therefore conducted a study to examine empir ically how often bipolar disorder might be over - and under- diagnosed .
seven hundred psychiatric out patients were interviewed with the structured clinical interview for d sm - iv ( sci d ) and completed a self- administered question na ire that asked whether they had been previously diagnosed by a health-care professional with bipolar or man ic- depressive disorder .
family history information was obtained from the patient regarding their immediate relatives .
slightly more than 20 % ( 1 45 patients ) in our sample reported that they had been previously diagnosed as having bipolar disorder , significantly higher than the 1 2.9 % rate based on the sci d .
less than half of those who reported that they had been previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder were diagnosed with bipolar disorder based on the sci d .
patients with sci d- diagnosed bipolar disorder had a significantly higher risk of bipolar disorder in their immediate family members than patients who self- reported a previous diagnosis of bipolar disorder that was not confirmed by the sci d .
patients who self- reported a previous diagnosis of bipolar disorder that was not confirmed by the sci d did not have a significantly higher risk for bipolar disorder than the patients who were negative for bipolar disorder by self- report and the sci d .
our findings , valid ated by family history , thus suggest that bipolar disorder was over- diagnosed .
any study seeking to determine whether a psychiatric disorder is over- diagnosed will find that some patients with the condition do not have it upon re- interview .
such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis .
the question , then , is not whether some patients previously given a diagnosis do not seem to have it upon re- interview , but rather how many .
how high the percentage should be before claiming over- diagnosis is a significant problem and a value judgment .
but we think that an over- diagnosis rate of more than 50 % cros ses the clinical significance threshold .
over- diagnosis of bipolar disorder has costs .
mood stabil izers are the treatment of choice , and , depending on the medication , they can produce potentially significant health complications affecting ren al , end ocr ine , he p atic , immun olog ic , or metabol ic function .
thus , over- diagnos ing bipolar disorder can unnecessarily expose patients to serious side- effects of medication .
the impact of marketing efforts by pharmaceutical companies and publicity probably plays a role in the emerging tendency to over- diagn ose bipolar disorder .
direc t- to- consumer advertis ements that refer individuals to screening question na ires can result in patients suggesting to their doctors that they have bipolar disorder .
we have seen evidence of this in our practice .
this does not necessarily reflect a problem with the performance of a screening question na ire , but rather how these scales are used .
screening question na ires maximize sensitivity , at a cost of false posi tives , because it is presumed that they are followed by expert clinical evaluation .
but insufficient diagnostic rig or can result in over- diagnosis .
clin icians are inclined to diagn ose disorders that they feel more comfortable treating .
we believe that the increased availability of medications that have been approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder might be influencing clin icians who are unsure whether or not a patient has bipolar disorder or border line personality disorder to er r on the side of diagnos ing the disorder that is responsive to medication .
this bias is reinforced by the marketing message of pharmaceutical companies to physicians , which has emphasized research on delayed diagnosis and under- recognition of bipolar disorder , possibly sensi ti zing clin icians accordingly .
the campaign against under- recognition has probably resulted in some anxious , ag itated , and/or irr itable depressed patients who complain of ins om nia and “ rac ing thoughts ” being mis diagnosed with bipolar disorder .
the results of our study are consistent with prior studies suggesting possible problems with the diagnosis of bipolar disorder .
with the greater number of medications approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder , along with multiple reports cau tioning clin icians against under- diagnosis , it appears that over- diagnosis has become a greater problem than under- diagnosis .
while there is still some uncertainty as to the best assessment approach , we recommend that clin icians use a standardized , valid ated method .
when tweets trump diplomacy
new delhi – diplomacy often wit nesses unusual sp ats .
there was the pi g and po ta to war of 18 59 , the affair of the d ancing lam as in 19 24 , and the bo got á  brac el et incident of 1970 , to name just a few .
but few were more surprising than the just- concluded episode of the offensive door mat s .
the e-commerce giant amazon – which has lately been cultivating india as the next frontier of its global expansion , reflected in plans to invest $ 5 billion in the country – was recently star tled by a series of int emper ate tweets from indian external affairs minister su sh ma swar aj .
in just a few 14 0- character messages , swar aj denounced the company and threatened to cancel its employees ’ visas and refuse visas to its executives in the future .
what provoked swar aj ’ s out burst was a twitter user ’ s complaint to her that the amazon canada website offered for sale door mat s depic ting the indian flag .
the notion that dirty shoes would be wiped on a representation of the indian flag had outraged the twee ter , at u l b ho be , who cont acted – and found an advocate in – swar aj .
amazon was swift to respond .
after clar ifying that the off ending door mat s were technically being offered by a third- party supplier , not amazon itself , the company removed them from the amazon canada website and “ implemented measures to ensure that these products could not be sold on any of our other market places or websites . ”
amazon ’ s india country manager offered an apology to swar aj for “ hurting indian sen sibilities ” and , recalling the company ’ s $ 5 billion investment commitment , reiterated amazon ’ s dedic ation to the country .
less than 24 hours after the do orm at crisis erupted , the matter was def used .
but the episode raises a number of broader issues that won ’ t disappear so quickly .
the first issue is swar aj ’ s use of twitter .
swar aj stands out among her peers in india for her trigger - happy approach to twee ting ( though her use of the platform is still dwar fed by that of us president-elect donald trump , who often uses twitter as a bully pul pit ) .
i certainly do not oppose the use of twitter by public officials .
on the contrary , i view the growing comfort of government ministers with social media as a matter for celebration .
it is a welcome change from my time as minister of state for external affairs , under the previous government , when official computers were barred from acc essing social media , and the tweets i issued from my own devices would often become the stuff of needless controversy .
but swar aj may well be going too far , responding to every individual case of a lost passport or delayed visa tweeted to her – an approach that has earned her the not- enti rel y- flat tering so br iqu et of “ india ’ s minister for consul ar affairs . ”
that a foreign minister would respond to a twitter complaint on such trivial matters , some would argue , seems to indicate that she lacks more important things to do .
( the suggestion undoubtedly reflects the fact that , under prime minister narendra modi , substantive foreign policy is conducted largely by him and his office , rather than by the external affairs ministry that swar aj leads . )
but the problem extends beyond swar aj ’ s communication with ordinary citizens .
in the recent do orm at drama , she also used twitter to issue instructions to her own diplomats , twee ting at the indian high commission in canada to deal with the “ unacceptable ” matter , by taking it up with amazon “ at the highest level . ”
such a move is unprecedented , and not particularly welcome .
social media is no substitute for a diplomatic cable .
also less than diplomatic was the language swar aj used in her warning to the company .
“ amazon must t ender unconditional apology , ” she tweeted .
“ they must withdraw all products insul ting our national flag immediately .
a profession fam ed for sum mon ing ambass ad ors for a discre et dres sing - down has been reduced to up bra iding companies on twitter .
the final issue that the do orm at incident brought to the fore is indians ’ tendency to take offense at the slightest affron t – a tendency that is now being elevated , by the th umb s of a top minister , to the level of official policy .
of course , dis respect for the national flag is der ided in most countries , and has been a criminal offense in india since 1971 , with the adoption of the prevention of insul ts to national honor act , which threatens whoever “ mu til ates , de faces , dis figures , destroys , tr am ples upon , or otherwise shows dis respect to ” the indian flag with imprisonment .
but indians have a particularly low threshold for what qual ifies as dis respect .
whereas in other democracies , flags are used freely and harm lessly on t- shir ts , boo ts , bi kin is , and even under wear , in india , the maj est y of the flag can , it seems , be tarnished by any ta w dry manufacturer of ge w ga ws .
and it ’ s not just the flag .
last year , amazon en raged many indians by offering door mat s with pictures of indian go ds and go dd esses , prompting the furious hash tag # boy co tt amazon .
two years earlier , the company ’ s website had caused similar outrage by selling women ’ s leg g ings with images of hindu go ds .
so amazon is no stranger to the anger of off ended indians .
but the company ’ s swift capit ulation in the latest incident – which will surely not be the last – shows that the value of a gigantic market like india far out weighs that of any single product .
china has already proved that it can dictate terms to multinationals that co vet its vast market .
india , it seems , will follow suit .
but whoever has emerged as the winner of the do orm at debacle – outraged twitter users , perhaps – diplomacy has been the loser .
ambival ent arabia
a democratic tide seems to be sweeping across the arab world .
even the traditional arab monarchies and emirates are changing in its wake .
kuwait now allows women to vote , qatar has embraced an ambitious reform program , bahrain has shown great tolerance of mass demonstrations , and the u . a . e . is allowing something like a free press .
but saudi arabia continues to be deeply wary of any sort of change , and thus remains a huge and seemingly im mov able obstacle to regi on- wide reform .
although the saudi ruling family , the al- saud , is under enormous pressure to follow the example of its neighbors , internal resistance to doing so remains very strong .
so the al- saud have become jan us- faced : looking in one direction , the royal family encourages democratic reformers to speak out ; looking in the opposite direction , it j ails them when they do .
on may 15 , in a closed trial without legal representation for the accused , three leading reformers – ali al du main i , a well-known journalist and poet , and university professors abdullah al hamid and mat ru k al f ali h – were condemned and sentenced to prison terms ranging from six to nine years .
their crime was to call for a constitutional monarchy .
the official verdict states that they threatened national unity , challenged those in authority , and incited public opinion against the state while using “ foreign , ” that is , western , termin ology .
not long after the september 2001 terrorist attacks in the united states , these liberal reformers joined with 160 other professionals to write and sign a petition to crown prince abdullah asking for reforms .
the petition called for the monarchy to work within constitutionally prescribed limits , and for an independent judiciary .
the reformers believe that such reforms are the only way for saudi arabia to survive the threat of violence , instability , and national fragmentation that is looming on its horizon .
only a constitution , they argue , can restore much needed legitimacy to a political system that is widely perceived as deeply corrupt and inept .
crown prince abdullah , saudi arabia ’ s de facto ruler in place of his in capac itated half- brother king fa h d , is keen to be seen as a champion of reform .
he received these proposals with a warm welcome in january 2003 .
crown prince abdullah offered not a pe ep of opposition , leaving the reform agenda that he initiated in a political nether world .
in order to maintain absolu ti st power and to minimize public anger , the saudi princes , led by prince na if , asked the reformers to sign an agreement that they would never again ask for reform .
prince na if bans the very word “ reform ” from public discourse , because it suggests that there is something wrong with the system ; his preferred term is “ development . ”
of the thir teen reformers who were arrested , ten submitted to this demand , but the other three refused and have paid the price .
they remained in jail in riyadh without legal representation until the final verdict .
those who submitted had their pass ports withdrawn , lost their jobs , and were forbidden to speak to the press .
under regional and international pressure , the saudi ruling family has constructed a pot em kin village of reform while retaining absolute control over all political developments .
earlier this year , they staged partial , and tightly regulated municipal elections , with no independent opinion permitted to influence when and how the ballots were held .
these entire female population was excluded , and only one-quarter of the male population was eligible to vote .
inevitably , wahhabi islamists did best .
the al- saud face two threats : one from violent islamists , and the other from liberal reformers .
there is every indication that they fear the reformers far more .
perhaps the princes believe that it is easier to kill “ terrorist ” criminals than to crush demands for social justice .
indeed , killing violent islamists and al-qaeda affili ates is applauded by the international community , especially the united states , as success in the “ war on terrorism . ”
but as they hunt down and kill violent domestic extremists , they are quietly tightening the no ose around all those who want moderate reform .
this repression of liberal reformers passes unnoticed in the wider world , with america ’ s silence particularly notic eable .
this silence is vital to the princes , for what the al- saud care about most is us support .
as things stand in saudi arabia , the us administration has no credible ally for change outside of the existing regime .
so , unlike in ukraine , georgia , kyr g iz stan , and lebanon , it does nothing to encourage popular opposition .
as long as the saudi regime meets america ’ s oil needs and fights islamist radicals , it will continue to receive us support and silence – and hence its tacit consent .
but turning a blind eye is shortsighted , for america and for the saudis .
those who make peaceful revolutions impossible make violent revolutions inevitable .
the liberal reformers who have been jailed could have paved the way for a peaceful transition to a reformed saudi arabia .
by j ailing them , the regime has made it clear that violence is the only aven ue open to those seeking change .
algeria ’ s dying dictatorship
al gi ers – despite his failing health , algerian president ab del aziz b out ef lik a won a fourth term last month , with 81 % of the vote – or so the regime claimed .
in fact , far from signaling growing political stability , the 7 7- year-old incumbent ’ s sham victory underscores just how few options alger ians have to effect change from within the system .
under b out ef lik a ’ s leadership , algeria ’ s government has failed to address the country ’ s most pressing economic and social challenges .
and there is no reason to expect this to change .
as a result , the regime is finding it increasingly difficult to claim , as it has for the last 15 years , that b out ef lik a ’ s leadership represents civilian control over the military .
so it has devised a new strategy , aimed at creating a sense of transition : the constitution will be revised to design ate a vice president as the president ’ s legitimate successor .
of course , the move ’ s true purpose will be to allow the army to rally around the next compliant “ civilian leader . ”
the regime will also propose a “ national contract , ” supposedly to initiate a dialogue with the opposition .
but , in the wake of b out ef lik a ’ s bogus victory , the opposition can no longer accept a sham role in the regime ’ s reform plans .
in fact , the announcement that b out ef lik a planned to run was enough to unite islamists and leftists – even parties that had previously been co- opted by the regime – and spur them to stage a boycott of the vote .
when the election results were announced , they swiftly rejected the new government as illegitimate .
but , to gain credibility , the opposition parties will have to extend their criticism beyond b out ef lik a to the system as a whole .
this has become crucial to their survival , as younger opponents are seeking new ways to bring about political change outside state-controlled politics .
one important development is the growing influence of non- partisan voices of dissent .
non-violent movements have formed to protest not only b out ef lik a ’ s continued leadership , but also the pervasive role of the army and intelligence services in civil society .
such movements , like the much- publicized “ bar ak at ” ( “ enough ” ) , have encouraged a shift among alger ians from resent ful abst ention to active boycott .
underground unions – which mount demonstrations and strikes to protect workers ’ rights , while refusing to cooperate with the regime ’ s official unions – have also criticized the election .
moreover , young people have assumed a prominent role in opposition efforts , such as by disrupting b out ef lik a ’ s campaign rallies .
demonstrations by unemployed young people in southern algeria , the center of the oil industry , drew a direct link between high unemployment and the military ’ s control of the country ’ s natural resources .
by organizing peaceful protests to demand accountability for public spending , these movements are raising issues that were not addressed during the election campaign .
more immediately , they are also challenging the government ’ s ban on street demonstrations – a v esti ge of the state of emergency that lasted from 1992 until 2011 .
with the civil war of the 1990 ’ s long over , security officials can not explain why alger ians are being arrested for demanding jobs .
of course , repression continues to intimidate many alger ians .
but it is becoming increasingly easy to rou se their sympathy for their fellow citizens through twitter , youtube , and facebook .
by stimulating daily public debate about local human-rights violations , they spread the message of discontent more efficiently than traditional parties ever have .
by demanding better state services , rather than an “ arab spring , ” alger ians have walked a fine line , highlighting the regime ’ s inability to deliver security and economic prosperity , despite its efforts to stifle all debate .
thus , even without explicitly talking about politics , ordinary alger ians are mobilizing in growing numbers against the government .
the majority of street protests have occurred in the most deprived and neglected areas , and the primary demands have been economic : better jobs , housing , health-care services , and infrastructure .
for some , the right to make a living through the informal market would be sufficient .
and demonstrators have gone to great – sometimes destructive – leng ths to be heard , blocking roads , occupying factories and government buildings , and sabot aging water and electricity infrastructure .
more than 150 alger ians have even set themselves on fire since 2011 , usually in front of public services buildings .
in this context , the failure of the government ’ s half- b aked attempts to buy off protesters is unsurprising .
in 2011 , the government , fearing contagion from tunisia and egypt , where long- established dictatorships had just been toppled , responded to the spread of protests by public-sector workers by raising their salaries by 100 % – retro actively to 2008 .
to be sure , street protests have already had a profound impact on algeria ’ s authoritarian politics , with official fears of massive uprisings affecting public budgets and political appointments .
but the decision to prolong b out ef lik a ’ s presidency will not provide the kind of strong , transformational leadership that algeria needs to materialize the regime ’ s stability promises .
the algerian authorities face a major challenge , because rejection of pluralist institutions makes it more difficult to find negotiating partners .
the more the regime tries to buy off the protesters , the more over we ening it appears – and the angr ier citizens become .
and the en raged younger generation , in particular , is not especially fearful of losing the limited benefits offered by the status quo .
america after the election
new york – the ongoing presidential campaign in the united states stands out for its lack of civil ity and the vast differences between the candidates : the anti-establishment businessman donald trump on the republican side and the pol ished politician hillary clinton representing the democrats .
the contest has exposed deep fault lines within american society and damaged the country ’ s global reputation .
no surprise , then , that one of the few things americans seem to agree on is that the campaign has gone on for too long .
but soon it will be over .
the question is : what comes next ?
polls suggest that clinton , a former senator and secretary of state , will defeat the controversial trump .
but polls are not to be confused with reality .
after all , going into june ’ s brexit referendum , most observers believed that a victory for “ remain ” was a sure thing .
more recently , colombian voters rejected a peace accord that was widely expected to receive popular approval .
all of this is to say that , while a clinton victory may be likely , it is no certainty .
the only poll that counts is the one on november 8 .
until then , all we can do is speculate .
yet some predictions can be made with greater confidence .
there is little doubt that the us will emerge from this election a divided country with a divided government , regardless of who is president or which party has a majority in either chamber of congress .
neither democrats nor republicans will be able to realize their objectives without at least some support from the other .
but no one should think that the only divide in american politics is between republicans and democrats .
in fact , spl its within the two major parties are just as deep , with large and highly motivated factions pulling each to their respective extremes – democrats to the left and republicans to the right .
this makes compromise on centrist positions all the more difficult to achieve .
the rapid resumption of presidential politics will undermine compromise further .
if clinton wins , many republicans will assume that it was only because of trump ’ s flaws , and they will judge her likely to be a one- term president .
a country favoring change , they will conclude , is unlikely to keep a democrat in the ov al office for a fourth term .
many republicans ( especially those who deny the legitimacy of a clinton victory ) will thus seek to frustr ate her administration , lest she be able to run again in 2020 as a successful incumbent .
similarly , if trump manages to win , most democrats ( and even some republicans ) will – after recovering from their surprise and dis may – make it their highest priority to ensure that he does not have an opportunity for a second term .
in either scenario , it may still be possible to make progress in a few key areas .
the next us government might manage to enact legislation to fund the modernization of america ’ s aging infrastructure , a policy that both candidates and many in congress favor .
it might also be able to co b ble together a majority to reform the us tax code – in particular , lowering the high rate for corporations and raising taxes on the wealthy .
there could even be some reform of health care , president barack obama ’ s signature achievement , owing to serious implementation problems with the current system .
but other issues requiring cooperation between congress and the president are unlikely to be addressed any time soon .
one is immigration reform , which is as controversial in the us as it is in europe .
another is trade : because the domestic political environment makes policymakers wary of supporting positions with dedicated opponents , both trump and clinton oppose the trans-pacific partnership , even though its ratification would benefit america ’ s economy and strategic standing .
meanwhile , america ’ s deficit and debt are certain to rise , as there seems to be little or no will to reduce entitlement spending .
the foreign-policy implications of the election are somewhat different , because , under the us constitution , the president enjoys considerable l ati tude .
while only congress can officially declare war or ratify treaties , presidents may use ( or refuse to use ) military force without explicit congressional approval .
they can also enter into international agreements other than treaties , appoint powerful white house staff , and change us foreign policy by executive action , as obama recently did regarding cuba .
under clinton , this discretion could translate into establishing one or more safe areas in syria , providing more defensive arms to ukraine , and taking a tougher line toward north korea as it continues its nuclear and missile buildup .
it is more difficult to guess what trump would do .
he is , after all , a political outsider , so no one knows how much of his campaign rhetoric would be translated into policy .
still , one could anticipate a trump administration dist ancing itself from some traditional allies in europe and asia and standing mostly alo of from the middle east .
what exactly will happen to america after the presidential election remains an open question .
though some outcomes can reasonably be expected , the only genuine certainty is that the 96 % of the world ’ s population that does not vote in us elections will feel the effects no less than americans will .
america and europe
deeply frustrated by the bush administration ’ s policies , many people and governments in europe hope for a fundamental change in american foreign policy after the upcoming presidential election .
but it would take a medium- sized political miracle for these hopes not to be disappointed , and such a miracle will not happen – whoever is elected .
the bush administration made numerous foreign-policy blunders with far-reaching consequences .
but bush neither invented american unilateralism nor triggered the transatlantic rift between the united states and europe .
to be sure , bush reinforced both trends , but their real causes lie in objective historical factors , namely america ’ s being the sole world power since 1989 and europe ’ s self-inflicted weakness .
as long as america remains the sole world power , the next us president will be neither able nor willing to change the basic framework of america ’ s foreign policy .
it will , of course , be important who wins the presidency : a candidate expected to continue bush ’ s foreign policy or someone ready for a new beginning .
in the former case , the transatlantic rift will deepen dramatically .
four , or even eight , more years of us policy à la bush would inflict such damage on the substance of the transatlantic alliance as to threaten its very existence .
but if america ’ s next president is committed to a new direction , us foreign policy might again become more multilateral , more focused on international institutions and alliances , and willing to bring the relationship between military force and diplomacy back to within its historical proportions .
that is the good news .
another piece of bad ( or good ? ) news is that a more multilateral american policy will increase the pressure on europeans to take on more responsibility for international crisis management and conflict resolution – in afghanistan , iran , iraq , the middle east , trans cauc asia , and russia , and with respect to turkey ’ s future .
to this common agenda , the europeans should add africa , climate change , and reform of the united nations and the world trading system .
for a long time , europe has underestimated its weight and importance .
europe ’ s geopolitical , economic , and social weight is quite obvious .
but europe ’ s integration of sovereign states ’ interests by means of common institutions could also be an example for much of the world .
in particular , the way europe , in the process of its enlargement , has projected its power to achieve lasting peace across the whole continent , and fostered development by integrating entire economies , states , and societies within its institutional framework , could become a model for shaping a cooperative world order in the twenty-first century .
this modern , progressive , and peaceful model is unique and superior to all other currently available approaches to the fundamental questions of political order .
but could doesn ’ t mean will .
europe ’ s global influence is feeble because of its internal quar rels and lack of unity , which render the european union weak and limit its ability to act .
objec tively strong , subjec tively in firm – that is how the eu ’ s present condition can be described .
the current moment of american weakness coin cides with a substantially changed international political environment , defined largely by the limits of us power , europe ’ s in effectiveness , and the emergence of new global giants like china and india .
in light of these developments , does it still make sense to speak of “ the west ” ?
i believe it does , more than ever , because the rift between europe and america leaves both sides substantially weaker in global terms .
the unilateral over stretching of american power offers a chance for a new beginning in us- european relations .
america , more than in the past , will depend on strong partners and will seek such partnerships .
so what are the europeans waiting for ?
why not start now to overcome the traditional tension between nato and the eu – especially as french policy toward nato under president nicolas sarkozy has been moving in the right direction ?
a regular mutual presence of the secretary general of nato and of the head of eu foreign policy in the councils of both organizations doesn ’ t require much time and effort .
why not initiate eu- us consultations at a high political level ( with the secretary-general of nato participating in security matters ) – for instance , by inviting the us secretary of state and other members of the administration , such as the treasury secretary or the administr ator of the environmental protection agency , to sit several times a year on the appropriate eu council meetings ?
why not have routine annual meetings between the european council and the us president ?
periodic meetings between the appropriate committees of the us congress and the european parliament would also be of great importance , as ultimately both bodies will have to ratify any international treaties .
the fate of the kyoto protocol should be a lesson to all parties involved .
no such us- eu consultations would require any new agreements , so they could start without any further prelimin aries .
there is one certainty that europeans can take home from the us election campaign even today : with a more multilater ally oriented us foreign policy , europe won ’ t be riding comfortably in the us world- political slip stream much longer .
and that is a good thing .
the new transatlantic formula must be greater say in decision-making in exchange for a greater share of responsibility .
america at stall speed ?
newport beach – judging from the sk it ti sh ness of both markets and “ consensus expectations , ” the united states ’ economic prospects are confusing .
one day , the country is on the brink of a double-dip recession ; the next , it is on the verge of a tur bo - charged recovery , powered by resilient consumers and us multinationals starting to deploy , at long last , their massive cash reserves .
this situation is both understandable and increasingly unsettling for america ’ s well-being and that of the global economy .
it reflects the impact of fundamental ( and historic ) economic and financial re- al ign ments , insufficient policy responses , and system -wide rigidities that frustr ate structural change .
as a result , there are now legitimate questions about the underlying functioning of the us economy and , therefore , its evolution in the months and years ahead .
one way to understand current conditions – and what is needed to improve them – is to consider two events that recently attracted considerable worldwide attention : the launch of bo eing ’ s dre am liner passeng er j et and the tragic death of apple ’ s steve jobs .
let us start with some simple aer on au tic dynamics , using an analogy that my p im co colleague , bill gross , came up with to describe the economic risks facing the american economy .
for the dre am liner to take off , asc end , and maintain a steady al titude , it must do more than move forward .
it has to move forward fast enough to exceed critical physical thresholds , which are significantly higher than those for most of bo eing ’ s other ( smaller ) planes .
failure would mean succumb ing to a mid- air stall , with tepid forward motion giving way to a sudden loss of al titude .
unless we are convinced of the dre am liner ’ s ability to avoid stall speed , it makes no sense to talk about all the ways in which it will enhance the travel experience for millions of people around the world .
america ’ s economy today risks stall speed .
specifically , the question is not whether it can grow , but whether it can grow fast enough to propel a large economy that , according to the us federal reserve , faces “ balance-sheet deleveraging , credit constraints , and household and business uncertainty about the economic outlook . ”
and , remember , it is just over a year since certain us officials were proclaiming the economy ’ s “ summer of recovery ” – a view underpinned by the err on eous belief that america was reaching “ escape velocity . ”
stall speed is a terrifying risk for an economy like that of the us , which desperately needs to grow robu stly .
without rapid growth , there is no way to reverse persistently high and increasingly structural ( and therefore protracted ) unemployment ; safely de- leverage over- indebted balance sheets ; and prevent already- disturbing income and wealth inequalities from growing worse .
the private sector alone can not and will not counter the risk of stall speed .
what is desperately needed is better policymaking .
specifically , policymakers must be open and willing to understand the unusual challenges facing the us economy , react accordingly , and possess sufficiently potent policy instruments .
unfortunately , this has been far from the case in america ( and in europe , where the situation is worse ) .
moreover , us policymakers in the last few weeks have been more interested in pointing fingers at europe and china than in recognizing and responding to the paradigm shifts that are at the root of the country ’ s economic problems and mounting social challenges .
this is where the insights of steve jobs , one of the world ’ s best innovators and entrepreneurs , come in .
jobs did more than navigate paradigm shifts ; he essentially created them .
he was a master at converting the complicated into the simple ; and , rather than being paralyzed by complexity , he found new ways to d econ struc t and overcome it .
te am work was an obligation , not a choice .
and he esche wed the search for the single “ big bang ” in favor of aiming for multiple breakthroughs .
underlying it all was a willingness to evolve – a drive for perfec tion through experimentation .
moreover , he exc elled at selling to audiences worldwide both his vision and his strategy for realizing it .
so far , america ’ s economic policymakers have fallen short on all of these fronts .
rather than committing to a comprehensive set of urg ent ly- needed reinforcing measures , they seem obsessed with the futile search for the one “ killer app ” that will solve all of the country 's economic problems .
no surprise that they have yet to find it .
little has been done to d econ struc t structural complexity , let alone win sufficient public support for a medium-term vision , a credible implementation strategy , and a set of measures that is adequate to the task at hand .
the longer the policymaking impasse persists , the greater the st all- speed risk for an economy that already has an unemployment crisis , a large budget deficit , many underwater mortgages , and policy interest rates flo ored at zero .
this is an atmosphere in which unhealthy balance sheets come under even greater pressure , and healthy investors refuse to engage .
in the process , the risk of recession remains un comfortably high , the unemployment crisis deepens , and inequities rise as already- stretched social safety nets prove even more por ous .
america , china , and the productivity paradox
new haven – in the late 1980s , there was intense debate about the so-called productivity paradox – when massive investments in information technology ( it ) were not delivering measu re able productivity improvements .
that paradox is now back , posing a problem for both the united states and china – one that may well come up in their annual strategic and economic dialogue .
back in 1987 , nobel laureate robert sol ow famously quipped , “ you can see the computer age everywhere except in the productivity statistics . ”
the productivity paradox seemed to be resolved in the 1990s , when america experienced a spectacular productivity renaissance .
average annual productivity growth in the country ’ s non farm business sector accelerated to 2.5 % from 1991 to 2007 , from the 1.5 % trend in the preceding 15 years .
the benefits of the internet age had finally materialized .
concern about the paradox all but vanished .
but the celebration appears to have been premature .
despite another technological revolution , productivity growth is sl umping again .
and this time the downturn is global in scope , affecting the world ’ s two largest economies , the us and china , most of all .
over the past five years , from 2010 to 2014 , annual us productivity growth has fallen to an average of 0.9 % .
it actually fell at a 2.6 % annual rate in the two most recent quarters ( in late 2014 and early 2015 ) .
barring a major data revision , america ’ s productivity renaissance seems to have run into serious trouble .
china is witnessing a similar pattern .
although the government does not publish regular productivity statistics , there is no mist aking the problem : overall urban employment growth has been steady , at around 1 3.2 million workers per year since 2013 – well in excess of the government ’ s targeted growth rate of ten million .
moreover , hiring seems to be holding at that bris k pace in early 2015 .
at the same time , output growth has slowed from the 10 % trend of the 33 years ending in 2011 to around 7 % today .
that down shift , in the face of sustained rapid job creation , implies an unmistakable deceler ation of productivity .
there in lies the latest paradox .
with revolutionary technologies now driving the creation of new markets ( digital media and compu ter ized we ar ables ) , services ( energy management and dna sequencing ) , products ( smartphones and robotics ) , and technology companies ( alibaba and apple ) , surely productivity growth must be surging .
as a modern-day sol ow might say , the �� � internet of everything ” is everywhere except in the productivity statistics .
but is there really a paradox ?
northwestern university ’ s robert gordon has argued that it - and internet- led innovations like automated high-speed data processing and e-commerce pale in comparison to the breakthroughs of the industrial revolution , including the steam engine , electricity , and indoor pl umb ing .
he maintains that , although these innovations led to dramatic transformations of the major advanced economies – such as higher female labor-force participation , increased transportation speed , urbanization , and norm alized temperature control – these changes will be extremely hard to replicate .
if us productivity figures are to be taken at anything close to face value – a persistently sluggish trend interrupted by a 16 -year spur t that now appears to have faded – it is possible that all america has accomplished are transitional efficiency improvements associated with the it- enabled shift from one technology platform to another .
optimists maintain that the official statistics fail to capture marked qual ity- of- life improvements , which may be true , especially in the light of promising advances in biotechnology and online education .
but this over looks a much more important aspect of the productivity- measurement critique : the under counting of work time associated with the widespread use of portable information appliances .
in the us , the bureau of labor statistics estimates that the length of the average work week has held steady at about 34 hours since the advent of the internet two decades ago .
yet nothing could be further from the truth : knowledge workers continually to il outside the traditional office , checking their email , up dating spre ad sheets , writing reports , and engaging in collective brain stor ming .
indeed , white- collar knowledge workers – that is , most workers in advanced economies – are now te thered to their work places essentially 24 hours a day , seven days a week , a reality that is not reflected in the official statistics .
productivity growth is not about working longer ; it is about generating more output per unit of labor input .
any under counting of output pal es in comparison with the it- assisted under counting of working hours .
china ’ s productivity slowdown is probably more benign .
it is an out growth of the chinese economy ’ s nascent structural transformation from capital-intensive manufacturing to labor-intensive services .
indeed , it was only in 2013 that services sup planted manufacturing and construction as the economy ’ s largest sector .
now the gap is widening , and that is likely to continue .
with chinese services requiring about 30 % more workers per unit of output than manufacturing and construction , combined , the economy ’ s structural rebalancing is now shifting growth to china ’ s lower- productivity services sector .
china has time before this becomes a problem .
as gordon notes , there have been long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china .
but there will come a time when this tail wind sub sides and china begins to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies .
at that point , china will face the same productivity challenges that confront america and others .
chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation- led growth seems to recognize this risk .
without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an up hill battle .
china ’ s recent shift to a slow er- productivity trajectory is an early warning of what may well be one of its most daunting economic challenges .
there is no escaping the key role that productivity growth plays in any country ’ s economic performance .
yet , for advanced economies , periods of sustained rapid productivity growth have been the exception , not the rule .
recent signs of slowing productivity growth in both the us and china underscore this reality .
for a world flir ting with secular stagnation , that is disturbing news , to say the least .
a new blueprint for us-china relations
new york – in the coming decades , nothing will matter more for global peace , prosperity , and governance than how the united states and china handle the ongoing shift in their relative power .
in the long term , today ’ s other pressing challenges – including russia ’ s relationship with the west and events in the tumultuous middle east – will amount almost to sid es h ows by comparison .
what makes the sino-american relationship dangerous is that powerful forces in both countries seem intent on a collision course .
on the chinese side , under xi jinping ’ s assertive leadership , the government is no longer he eding deng xiaoping ’ s in junction that the country should “ hide its strength , b ide its time , and never take the lead ” in international affairs .
the prevailing chinese mindset is that the us is intent on isolating , containing , and undermining it .
un happily , there is plenty of evidence on the us side to feed that sentiment .
whatever many american policymakers may be saying in private , their public discourse almost invariably reflects an intention to remain the world ’ s dominant power – and specifically in asia – in perpetu ity .
the most confrontational recent articul ation of this position can be found in a report for the council on foreign relations , by robert black will and ash ley tell is , arguing that the central objective of american grand strategy must be “ preserving us primacy in the global system , ” and urging a series of aggressive economic , political , and military measures to “ balance ” china .
they say this is not a “ containment ” strategy , but it amounts to nothing less .
is there another way to manage the relationship that , while reflecting the reality of these forces and mind sets on both sides , would not risk turning legitimate competition into dangerous confrontation ?
in a new report for the harvard kennedy school ’ s bel f er center for science and international affairs , kevin rud d , former australian prime minister and now head of the asia society policy institute , out lines just such a strategy , which he calls “ constructive realism ” .
it ’ s a cl un ky label , but his analysis and policy prescriptions are compelling .
the “ realist ” dimension of rud d ’ s argument recognizes that certain areas of disagreement – including taiwan , territorial disputes in the south and east china seas , us alliances in asia , chinese military modernization , and the legitimacy of china ’ s political system – will remain intractable for the foreseeable future .
they will defy easy solutions – and thus will require very careful management .
the “ constructive ” part of rud d ’ s thesis argues for systematic collaboration – with the us treating china more as an equal – in tackling a series of other difficult issues at bilateral , regional , and global levels .
bilater ally , such cooperation might involve an investment treaty , a joint intelligence task force on terrorism , a cyber- security protocol , agreed measures for managing un planned military incidents , and mutual ratification of the comprehensive nuclear t est- ban treaty .
on a regional level , rud d argues , the us and china could work on joint strategies to denuclear ize and , ultimately , re unify the korean peninsula ; tackle the lingering sor e of japan ’ s war history ; harmonize regional trade agreements ; and transform the east asia summit into a more complete asia-pacific community .
globally , rud d believes that the joint agenda could focus on combating climate change , revit alizing the g-20 , further internation alizing the renminbi ; giving china a greater role in the international monetary fund and the world bank ; and reforming other key international institutions within the un system .
some in the west – including veteran china wat cher david sh amb augh – remain convinced that this kind of collaborative accommodation will not be necessary , because failures of economic and political management will bring about china ’ s implosion .
rud d argues that they are wrong , and that xi will neither over play his authoritarian hand nor under- deliver on growth .
china ’ s rise will continue , and the world – including the us – will have to find principled ways of peacefully accommodating it .
rud d ’ s recommendations are undoubtedly ambitious .
but , given his credentials – he is a formidable chinese lingu ist and creative policy thin ker , with long and close personal relationships with key figures in both the us and china – his argument must be taken seriously .
indeed , though rud d ’ s tenure as australia ’ s prime minister was anything but smooth , his sheer force of intell ect is un matched by that of any public figure with whom i have inter acted over the last 30 years .
( not that this will much help his evident willingness to be drafted as the next un secretary-general : in that role the major powers have always preferred bl and secre tar ies to creative generals . )
no american presidential candidate is likely to be comfortable talking about the us as anything other than number one .
but we must hope that in the years ahead we hear less talk of “ primacy ” and “ dominance ” and much more about cooperation and collaboration .
it is only with such us policies toward china that the world can begin to be confident that the twenty-first century will not , like the last , become a val e of tears .
a bilateral f oil for america ’ s multilateral dilemma
new haven – the good news is that the united states and china appear to have backed away from the precip ice of a trade war .
while vague in detail , a may 19 agreement def uses tension and comm its to further negotiation .
the bad news is that the framework of negotiations is flawed : a deal with any one country will do little to resolve america ’ s fundamental economic imbalances that have arisen in an interconnected world .
there is a longstanding disconnect between bilateral and multilateral approaches to international economic problems .
hoover ignored the advice , and the global trade war that followed made a gar den - variety depression “ great . ”
president donald trump has put a comparable spin on what it takes to “ make america great again . ”
politicians have long favored the bilateral perspective , because it simp lifies blame : you “ solve ” problems by targeting a specific country .
by contrast , the multilateral approach appeals to most economists , because it stresses the balance-of-payments distortions that arise from mismatches between saving and investment .
this contrast between the simple and the complex is an obvious and important reason why economists often lose public debates .
the dismal science has never been known for clarity .
such is the case with the us-china debate .
china is an easy political target .
after all , it accounted for 46 % of america ’ s colossal $ 800 billion merchandise trade gap in 2017 .
moreover , china has been charged with egregious violations of international rules , ranging from allegations of currency manipulation and state- subsidized dumping of excess capacity to cyber- hacking and forced technology transfer .
equally significant , china has lost the battle in the arena of public opinion – ch as ti sed by western policymakers , a few high-profile academics , and others for having failed to live up to the grand bargain struck in 2001 , when the country was admitted to the world trade organization .
a recent article in foreign affairs by two senior officials in the obama administration says it all : “ ( t ) he liberal international order has failed to lure or bind china as power fully as expected . ”
as is the case with north korea , syria , and iran , strategic patience has given way to impati ence , with the nationalistic trump administration leading the charge against china .
the counter- argument from multilater al- focused economists like me rings hollow in this climate .
trac ing outsize current-account and trade deficits to an extraordinary shortfall of us domestic saving – just 1.3 % of national income in the fourth quarter of 2017 – counts for little in the arena of popular opinion .
likewise , it doesn ’ t help when we emphasize that china is merely a large piece of a much bigger multilateral problem : the us had bilateral merchandise trade deficits with 10 2 countries in 2017 .
nor does it matter when we point out that correcting for supply- chain distortions – caused by inputs from other countries that enter into chinese assembly platforms – would reduce the bilateral us-china trade imbalance by 35- 40 % .
flawed as it may be , the bilateral political case resonates in a us where there is enormous pressure to ease the ang st of the country ’ s beleaguered middle class .
trade deficits , goes the argument , lead to job losses and wage com pression .
and , with the merchandise trade gap hitting 4.2 % of gdp in 2017 , these pressures have only intensified in the current economic recovery .
as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal .
so , what can be made of the may 19 deal ?
beyond a ceasefire in ti t-for- tat tariffs , there are few real benefits .
us negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year time frame .
given the extent of america ’ s multilateral problem , this is largely a meaningless objective , especially in light of the massive and ill- timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases that the us has enacted in the last six months .
indeed , with budget deficits likely to widen , america ’ s saving shortfall will only deepen in the years ahead .
that points to rising balance-of-payments and multilateral trade deficits , which are impossible to resolve through targeted bilateral actions against a single country .
chinese negotiators are more circum spec t , resisting numer ical deficit targets but committing to the joint objective of “ effective measures to substantially reduce ” the bilateral imbalance with the us .
china ’ s vague promise to purchase more american- made agricultural and energy products borrows a page from the “ shopping list ” approach of its earlier trade missions to the us .
even if the stars were in perfect alignment and the us was not facing a saving constraint , it stret ches credibility to seek a formul a ic bilateral solution to america ’ s multilateral problem .
since 2000 , the largest annual reduction in the us-china merchandise trade imbalance amounted to $ 41 billion , and that occurred in 2009 , during the depths of the great recession .
the goal of achieving back -to- back annual reductions totaling more than double that magnitude is sheer fantasy .
in the end , any effort to impose a bilateral solution on a multilateral problem will backfire , with ominous consequences for american consumers .
without addressing the shortfall in domestic saving , the bilateral fix simply moves the deficit from one economy to others .
there in lies the cruel est twist of all .
china is america ’ s low-cost provider of imported consumer goods .
the trump deal would shift the chinese piece of america ’ s multilateral imbalance to higher- cost imports from elsewhere – the functional equivalent of a tax hike on american families .
as hoover ’ s ghost might ask , what ’ s so great about that ?
america confronts old and new europe
us secretary of defense donald rumsfeld 's pe t ul ant remark of last year about `` old and new europe '' was right for the wrong reasons .
he meant it to refer to europe 's divisions , but in may , ten additional states joined the european union .
the expanded europe truly forms a new europe .
should america be nervous ?
fif ty- four years after the announcement of the schum an plan that began to knit together the economies of france and germany , the eu now has 25 countries and a population larger than that of the united states .
eight of the new members are former communist countries that were locked behind the iron curtain for nearly half a century .
their attraction to the union is a sign of the appeal - the `` soft power '' - of the idea of european unification .
of course , this new europe faces many problems .
the per capita income of the new countries is less than half of that of the fifteen members they are joining . concerns have been raised about the influx of cheap labor .
but average gdp growth rates in the new members are twice as high as in the original members , and this can provide a welcome stimulus to stagnant labor markets and sluggish economies .
political arrangements are somewhat more problematic .
negotiations are underway to revise a draft eu constitution .
some europeans worry that the constitution will enable courts to carry the integration process further and faster than public opinion in member states will tolerate .
lack of grassroots support might lead to rejection of the constitution in countries like britain , where referenda have been promised before the new arrangements come into force .
across the atlantic , most americans ( to the extent they pay attention ) regard these changes with general approval .
but some express concern that the new europe will be defined in opposition to the us .
not only do the remarks of french leaders about recre ating a multi-polar world ar ouse alarm , but recent public opinion polls show a decline in the popularity of the us among europeans and a desire for more independent policies .
the iraq war proved costly to american soft power , with the us losing about 30 percentage points of attractiveness on average in europe , including in countries like britain , spain , and italy , whose governments supported the war .
the recent photo graphs of detainees being abused and sexually degraded in baghdad 's abu ghraib prison added fuel to the fire .
such a policy change would be a serious mistake .
not only would it add to anti-american attitudes and fail to accomplish its objectives , but it over- estimates the extent to which the new europe is being formed in opposition to the us .
whatever the rhetoric in france , for example , the policies and attitudes in countries such as britain or poland demonstrate that good trans- atlantic relations can be maintained .
if anything , the risks of a us- europe split will be reduced rather than increased by the eu 's recent enlargement .
moreover , there are several objective reasons why the current friction between europe and the us is unlikely to lead to divorce .
for one thing , the divisive war in iraq may turn out to be the last act of the twentieth century rather than a harbinger of the twenty-first .
american unilateralism is much less in evidence in the world 's other hot spots , such as north korea and iran , both because of the costs of the war in iraq and the realities of the situation in those other regions .
moreover , while the common security threat from the soviet union has disappeared , both the us and europe face a new common threat from radical jihadist terrorism .
neither side of the atlantic is immune to the threat , despite the efforts of osama bin laden to drive a wedge between europe and america .
transnational terrorism can only be confronted by close civilian cooperation such as intelligence sharing , police work across borders , and trac ing financial flows . these forms of cooperation survived the divisions over iraq .
europe and america also share a common structure of economic interests and values .
while trade produces frictions in democracies , it also enhances wealth .
if one looks at foreign direct investment , it is clear that the two sides of the atlantic are closely integrated .
in terms of values , while some differences exist between europe and america , at the fundamental level of democracy and human rights , no other two parts of the globe share more .
as the writer robert k agan concluded in the revision of his book in which he declared europeans to be from ven us and americans from mars , it turns out that americans seeking democratic legitim ization of their policies and self- images can not escape europe .
in short , it is good for americans - and for the world - that old and new europe are becoming one .
we can all benefit from the soft power of an enlarged europe .
america ’ s baby bust
london – news that the united states ’ fertility rate fell in 2017 to 1. 75 has provoked surprise and concern .
a bu oy ant us economy in the 1990s and early 2000s was accompanied by fertility rates of 2. 00- 2. 0 5 children per woman , up from 1. 8- 1.9 in the 1980s .
but the increasingly strong economic recovery of the last five years has been accompanied by a declining birth rate .
that seems to pres age a long-term shortage of workers relative to retirees , and severe financial pressures on pension funds and health-care provision .
but the assumption that stronger growth and economic confidence must generate higher fertility – with low birth rates reflecting pessimism about the future – is not justified by the evidence .
moreover , fertility rates at around the current us level do not pose severe problems – and bring some benefits .
in all major developed economies , fertility rates fell during the 1960s and 7 0s , reaching levels below the replacement rate of around 2. 0 5 children per woman .
the us rate reached 1. 77 in the late 1970s , compared to 1.8 in northern europe and 1. 65 in western europe .
and while we can not be certain , the best expectation is that this shift to fertility rates significantly below the replacement rate will prove permanent , with temporary reversals driven by specific one-off factors .
some viewed the us return to somewhat higher fertility rates in the 1990s as the consequence of greater economic dynamism and confidence , in contrast to “ old europe . ”
but throughout the last 30 years , fertility rates for white and black americans have remained significantly below replacement level , and the three- decade rise and fall of us birth rates is explained primarily by higher his panic fertility , reflecting the common phenomenon that first- generation immigrants ’ fertility rates are typically similar to those in their poorer countries of origin .
but with latin american fertility rates now in steep decline – mexico ’ s is down from 2.9 in 2000 to 2.1 today , and brazil ’ s has fallen from 2.5 to 1.7 – the im migr ant- induced effect is disappearing , and the us is rever ting to a typical fertility rate for a rich developed country .
absent temporary migr ation- induced effects , all major developed economies have shifted to fertility rates of 1. 2- 2.0 , with most falling between 1.3 and 1.9 .
and while there is some evidence that sudden deep recessions produce temporary fertility di ps , followed by reb ounds , cross- country comparison provides no evidence of any correlation – positive or negative – between medium-term economic success and precise fertility rates within this range .
canada , with its lower fertility rate , is quite as successful and confident as the us .
strong german growth over the last 20 years has been combined with a fertility rate of 1. 4- 1.5 , well below the 1. 98 rate in less successful france .
south korea has maintained economic expansion with a fertility rate of just 1. 2- 1.3 .
latin america ’ s most prosperous economy , chile , has a fertility rate of 1. 76 , well below less successful argentina ’ s rate of 2. 27 .
the recent decline in us fertility is therefore unsurprising ; and , provided it does not fall to much lower levels , there is no cause for concern .
of course , in the long run , a lower fertility rate , combined with rising life expectancy , will produce a higher ratio of those over 65 years old to those conventi onally labeled as “ working age . ”
but as people live longer and healthier lives , retirement ages can and should be increased .
and in a world of radical automation potential , which threatens low wage growth and rising inequality , a rapidly growing workforce is neither necessary nor beneficial , and a slightly contracting supply of workers may create useful incentives to improve productivity and support real wage growth .
notably , fears that robots will take jobs are much less prevalent in japan and china than in higher- fertility western countries .
in rich developed societies with modern attitudes to the role of women , fertility rates somewhat below replacement levels may thus be both inevitable and broadly welcome .
but degree matters , and extremely low fertility , such as japan ’ s rate of 1.4 , will create major problems if permanently maintained .
the united nations median projection suggests that the total population of north and south america , after growing by another 15- 20 % between now and 2050 , will remain roughly stable for the rest of the twenty-first century .
by contrast , japan ’ s population is projected to fall from 125 million today to around 80 million .
demographic contraction on that scale will severely stress japan ’ s ability to support an aging population .
intelligent policy should therefore identify and remove any barriers unnecessarily depressing birth rates , such as labor-market discrimination , limited parental leave , or inadequate childcare facilities , which make it difficult for women to combine careers with having as many children as they wish .
the scandinavian countries are exempl ary in this respect , though fertility rates there have not returned to replacement levels , but only to about 1. 7 5- 1.9 .
similar policies in the us might marginally increase the fertility rate from today ’ s 1. 75 , with a mil dly beneficial net effect .
but the pre dominant response to america ’ s recent fertility decline should be to accept it as inevitable and to stop worrying about it .
the us is exporting obesity
cambridge – as us president donald trump ’ s administration throw s sharp el b ows in trade negotiations and systematically resc in ds regulations introduced by president barack obama , one casualty is likely to be efforts to fight the global obesity epidemic .
left unchecked , rapidly rising obesity rates could slow or even reverse the dramatic gains in health and life expectancy that much of the world has enjoyed over the past few decades .
and by forcing its food culture on countries like mexico and canada , the united states is making the problem worse .
one of the paradox es of modern global capitalism is that whereas more than 800 million people in the world do not have enough to eat , an estimated 700 million people ( including 100 million children ) are obese .
of course , the two are not necessarily directly related . a considerable proportion of world hunger occurs in countries suffering from domestic strife or severe government dysfunction .
the obesity epidemic , however , has a much broader footprint , affecting advanced economies and most emerging markets .
although there is some connection between obesity and poverty within countries , it is notable that obesity rates in rich countries such as the united states , the united kingdom , and canada are among the world ’ s highest .
according to the c dc , the average weight of an american woman today is greater than the average weight of an american man in 1960 ( 16 6 pounds , or 75 kil os ) .
back in 1960 , the average weight of an american woman was 140 pounds , while the average weight of an american man today is 19 5 pounds . ( over the same period , the average height of americans increased by only one in ch , or 2.5 centi meters . )
this same dynamic is playing out worldwide , with obesity rates soaring in europe , latin america , and even in china .
although it is difficult to gauge the long-run health consequences , there is abundant evidence that obesity contributes significantly to higher rates of type ii diabetes , heart attacks , and certain types of cancer .
the health costs are staggering , estimated to be close to $ 200 billion per year in the us alone .
and with rising childhood obesity rates worldwide port ending significantly greater health problems in the future adult population , the costs are likely to rise considerably .
the causes of obesity are manif old and complex .
nevertheless , a growing body of evidence suggests that a culture emphasizing processed food and a generally se d entary lifestyle lies at the center of the problem .
in emerging markets , rapid urbanization is another important factor , as well as a desire to emulate western lifestyles .
many governments have launched initiatives to improve nutrition education .
unfortunately , industry advertising typically dwar fs these efforts , as do us trade lobbyists ’ own efforts to push processed and fast food on the rest of the world .
it is hard to ignore the fact that mexico ’ s adult obesity rate has soared since the adoption in 1993 of the north american free trade agreement .
while there are many causes , post- nafta direct foreign investment in the processed food industry and a surge in advertising are important contributors .
mexican consumption of su gary be ver ages nearly tripled between 1993 and 2014 , and a new tax on su gary dr inks has muted demand only slightly since then .
the other nafta partner , canada , has similarly experienced a rise in obesity , partly because us imports have led to a sharp decline in the price of fr uct ose .
it is unfortunate that government regulators have been so slow to try to reverse these trends by , for example , helping to educate the public on the science of nutrition .
and , for too long , most government anti- obesity education has focused on mechan ically regulating cal ori e in take , without taking into account that different foods have dramatically different effects on appetite ( as david lu dwi g , a professor at harvard medical school , emphasizes in his excellent new book always hungry ) .
skeptics may point out that nutrition guidelines always seem to be morph ing , with last year ’ s sin food becoming this year ’ s super food , and vice versa .
though there is some truth to this , the fact is that nutrition research has made significant progress in recent decades .
the government has other tools at its disposal , besides education , for affecting people ’ s eating habits .
they can and should place greater restrictions on advertising to children , as the uk , france , and several other countries have done ; obesity in early years can lead to lifelong problems .
beyond that , lu dwi g , tu f ts university ’ s dar i ush moz aff arian , and i have proposed instituting a tax on processed food , much the same way that tobacco is taxed .
proceeds from the tax could be used to subsidize healthier alternatives .
it is perhaps fantasy to expect the current us administration to consider any kind of anti- obesity strategy while it is still busy dismantling obam a- era policies .
but that is all the more reason why countries entering new trade agreements with the us ( for example , the post-brexit uk , or post- nafta canada ) must be wary of any provisions that tie their hands in the war against obesity .
“ america first ” financial regulation ?
london – as us president trump struggles to staff his administration with sympath izers who will help tran sp ose tweets into policy , the exodus of obama appointees from the federal government and other agencies continues .
for the financial world , one of the most significant depar tures was that of daniel tar ul lo , the federal reserve governor who has led its work on financial regulation for the last seven years .
it would be a stretch to say that tar ul lo has been universally popular in the banking community .
he was a tough negotiator , with a well- tun ed instinct for spot ting special p leading by financial firms .
but cro co d ile tears will be shed in europe to mark his resignation .
european banks , and even their regulators , were concerned by his enthusiastic advocacy of even tougher standards in basel 3.5 ( or basel 4 , as bankers like to call it ) , which would , if implemented in the form favored by the us , require further substantial capital increases for europe ’ s banks in particular .
in his absence , these proposals ’ fate is uncertain .
but tar ul lo has also been an enthusiastic promo ter of international regulatory cooperation , with the frequent fl yer miles to prove it .
for some years , he has chaired the financial stability board ’ s lit t le- known but important standing committee on supervisory and regulatory cooperation .
his commitment to working with colleagues in international bodies like the fsb and the basel committee on banking supervision , to reach global regulatory agreements enabling banks to compete on a level playing field , has never been in doubt .
already , some of those who criticized him most voc ally in the past are anxious about his departure .
who will succeed him ?
the 2010 dodd-frank act created a vice- chair position on the federal reserve board – which has never been filled – to lead the fed ’ s work on regulation .
will that appointe e , whom trump now needs to select , be as committed as tar ul lo to an international approach ?
or will his principal task be to build a regulatory wall , protecting us banks from global rules ?
we do not yet know the answers to these questions , but fed wat chers were alarmed by a january 31 letter to fed chair janet yellen from representative pat rick m chen ry , the vice chairman of the house committee on financial services . m chen ry did not pull his pun ches .
“ despite the clear message delivered by president donald trump in prioritiz ing america ’ s interest in international negotiations , ” m chen ry wrote , “ it appears that the federal reserve continues negotiating international regulatory standards for financial institutions among global bureaucrats in foreign lands without transparency , accountability , or the authority to do so .
this is unacceptable . ”
in her reply of febr u ar y 10 , yellen firmly rebu tted m chen ry ’ s arguments .
she pointed out that the fed does indeed have the authority it needs , that the basel agreements are not binding , and that , in any event , “ strong regulatory standards enhance the stability of the us financial system ” and promote the competitiveness of financial firms .
but that will not be the end of the story .
the battle lines are now drawn , and m chen ry ’ s letter shows the arguments that will be deployed in congress by some republicans close to the president .
there has always been a str and of thinking in washington that dis likes foreign entang lements , in this and other areas .
while yellen ’ s arguments are correct , the fed ’ s entitlement to participate in international negotiations does not obli ge it to do so , and a new appointe e might argue that it should not .
such a reversal would generate tensions within the fed , and where it would leave the fsb , or indeed the basel committee , is unclear .
in the early days of the bank for international settlements ( where the basel committee ’ s secretariat is located ) in the 1930s , the us government declined to take a board seat , and the us was represented by jp morgan .
it is a little hard to see that arrangement working well today .
these questions are of more than passing interest in europe .
european capital adequacy directives typically tran sp ose basel accords into eu law .
if the basel process st alls , transatlantic deals , which are the crucial underpinning of western capital markets , will be far harder to reach .
there is a further compl ication arising from brexit .
absent any special deal between the eu 27 and the united kingdom , british and eu regulators will come together in basel , not in the european banking authority .
as central bankers bid fare well to the devil they know , financial regulation has entered a period of high uncertainty – and high anxiety for policymakers as they await an announcement from mar - a- l ago .
no likely federal reserve board candidates have been spot ted at pool side , or being interviewed on the gol f course , but a decision can not be far off .
nothing can be taken for granted .
the financial world is holding its collective breath .
navigating america ’ s economic-policy shocks
new york – with a series of tax and trade moves being considered in the united states this year , emerging-market economies are likely to face devaluation pressure and volatility .
three sources of us- fueled economic uncertainty , in particular , will r attle emerging markets in 2017 .
the first is a border adjustment tax that would give tax breaks to us exporters , but impose a levy – or , equival ently , dis allow deductions – on imports to the us .
both president donald trump and the republican- controlled us congress have said they favor the scheme , which has a fair chance of being enacted .
such a tax , or even the anticipation of its adoption , could drive up the us dollar ’ s exchange rate ( which , ironically , would offset , at least partly , the improvement in the us trade imbalance for which the trump administration may be hoping ) .
the second source of uncertainty is the possibility of more aggressive action on chinese exports to the us .
the trump administration has said many times that it will confront china over what it considers unfair trade practices .
trump has openly m used about imposing a 45 % tariff on chinese imports .
the introduction of anything close to that would generate downward pressure on the renminbi , given the resulting reduction in demand for chinese exports .
but such a move would serve to weaken many other currencies as well .
my research with z hi wang and k un fu  zhu reveals that about half of chinese exports to the us are value-added products manufactured with components from south korea , japan , taiwan , singapore , and other countries .
because products from china are often part of integrated global or regional value chains , a us restric tion on its imports from china would indirectly , but very quickly , translate into reduced exports of value-added items by other countries in asia .
this slip page would likely offset any direct increase in these countries ’ exports to the us , at least in the short and medium term , because re- organizing production chains is not a trivial matter .
a third us move that could un settle emerging markets is fa ster - than- expected monetary tightening by the federal reserve .
a large interest-rate hike would translate into us dollar appreciation , and depreciation of developing- economy currencies .
one exception may be the currencies of commodity exporters .
higher commodity prices , triggered in part by anticipation of increased demand as a result of a boost in us infrastructure spending , could cause these countries ’ currencies to strengthen .
even on that front , though , some commodity exporters – such as brazil and russia – may not see much improvement in their exchange rates , given the drag of other forces on their weak economies .
the challenges that us policy changes pose for emerging-market currencies include not only downward pressure , but also greater volatility .
what , then , should emerging-market countries do to enhance their resilience in anticipation of the shoc k waves ?
one option is to optimize the structure of capital inflows .
a second is to boost the flexibility of exchange rates .
on the former , as my research with hui t ong shows , countries that rely heavily on borrowing from foreign banks or international capital markets are more vulnerable to capital flight than countries that depend mainly on foreign direct investment .
therefore , to guard against exchange-rate volatility or us interest-rate changes , emerging markets should work to improve their business environments to attract fdi , which would reduce their reliance on short-term in fu sions of “ hot money ” – and thus lower their vulnerability to abrupt capital-flow reversals .
such adjustment is especially important for countries with rigid labor markets .
one danger of fixed exchange rates is the risk of an overvalued or undervalued currency , neither of which is good for economic stability .
the chance of either scenario is elevated when the forces influencing the equilibrium exchange rate become more volatile .
while the shape and timing of future us policies are uncertain , it seems clear that capital-flow management and nominal exchange-rate flexibility amount to good preparation .
to paraphrase benjamin franklin , if developing countries fail to prepare , they will have to prepare to fail .
why millen ni als will reject trump
new york – the key political divide in the united states is not between parties or states ; it is between generations .
the millenn ial generation ( those aged 18- 35 ) voted heavily against donald trump and will form the backbone of resistance to his policies .
older americans are divided , but trump ’ s base lies among those above the age of 45 .
on issue after issue , younger voters will reject trump , viewing him as a politician of the past , not the future .
of course , these are averages , not absolu tes .
yet the numbers confirm the generational divide .
according to exit polls , trump received 53 % of the votes of those 45 and older , 42 % of those 30- 44 , and just 37 % of voters 18- 29 .
in a 2014 survey , 31 % of millen ni als identified as liberals , compared with 21 % of baby boom ers ( aged 50- 68 in the survey ) and only 18 % of the silent generation ( 69 and above ) .
the point is not that today ’ s young liberals will become tomorrow ’ s older conservatives .
the millenn ial generation is far more liberal than the baby boom ers and silent generation were in their younger years .
they are also decidedly less partisan , and will support politicians who address their values and needs , including third- party aspir ants .
there are at least three big differences in the politics of the young and old .
first , the young are more socially liberal than the older generations .
for them , america ’ s growing racial , religious , and sexual plurality is no big deal .
a diverse society of whites , african-americans , his panics , and asians , and of the nati ve- born and immigrants , is the country they ’ ve always known , not some dramatic change from the past .
they accept sexual and gender categories – les b ian , gay , trans , bi , in ter , pan , and others – that were essentially taboo for – or unknown to – their grandparents ’ ( trump ’ s ) generation .
second , the young are facing the unprecedented economic challenges of the information revolution .
they are entering the labor market at a time when market returns are rapidly shifting toward capital ( robots , artificial intelligence , and smart machines generally ) and away from labor .
the elderly rich , by contrast , are enjoying a stock market boom caused by the same technological revolution .
trump is pedd ling cuts in corporate taxes and estate taxes that would further benefit the elderly rich ( who are amp ly represented in trump ’ s cabinet ) , at the expense of larger budget deficits that further burden the young .
indeed , the young need the opposite policy : higher taxes on the wealth of the older generation in order to finance post- secondary education , job training , renewable-energy infrastructure , and other investments in america ’ s future .
third , compared to their parents and grandparents , the young are much more aware of climate change and its threats .
while trump is enti cing the older generation with one last fl ing with fossil fuels , the young will have none of it .
part of the generational divide over global warming is due to the sheer ignorance of many older americans , including trump , about climate change and its causes .
older americans didn ’ t learn about climate change in school .
they were never introduced to the basic science of greenhouse gases .
that is why they are ready to put their own short-term financial interests ahead of the dire threats to their grandchildren ’ s generation .
in a june 2015 survey , 60 % of 18- 29 year- olds said that human activity was causing global warming , compared with just 31 % of those 65 and older .
a survey released in january found that 38 % of american survey respondents 65 and older favored fossil-fuel expansion over renewable energy , compared with only 19 % of those 18- 29 .
trump ’ s economic policies are geared to this older , whit er , nati ve- born america .
he favors tax cuts for the older rich , which would burden the young with higher debt .
he is indifferent to the $ 1 trillion overhang of student debt .
he is re prising the 1990s nafta debate over free trade , rather than facing the far more important twenty-first-century jobs challenge posed by robotics and artificial intelligence .
and he is obsessed with squeezing a few more years of profit out of america ’ s coal , oil , and gas reserves at the cost of a future environmental catastrophe .
one might attribute trump ’ s back ward-looking mindset to his age .
at 70 , trump is the oldest person ever to become president ( ronald reagan was slightly younger when he took office in 1981 ) .
yet age is hardly the sole or even the main factor here .
bernie sanders , certainly the fresh est mind of all the 2016 presidential candidates and the hero of millenn ial voters , is 75 .
the young are en chan ted with pope francis , 80 , because he puts their concerns – whether about poverty , employment difficulties , or vulnerability to global warming – within a moral framework , rather than dismissing them with the cr ass cynicism of trump and his il k .
the main issue here is mindset and political orientation , not chron ological age .
trump has the short est time horizon ( and attention span ) of any president in historical memory .
and he is utterly out of touch with the real challenges facing the young generation as they grapple with new technologies , shifting labor markets , and crushing student debt .
a trade war with mexico and china , or a trag ically mis conceived ban on muslim migrants , will hardly meet their real needs .
trump ’ s political success is a b lip , not a turning point .
today ’ s millen ni als , with their fu ture- oriented perspective , will soon dominate american politics .
america will be multi ethnic , socially liberal , climate conscious , and much fairer in sharing the economic benefits of new technology .
too many observers remain fixated on the traditional party divides in the us congress , not on the deeper demographic changes that will soon be decisive .
sanders nearly captured the democratic nomination ( and would likely have triumph ed in the general election ) with a platform appealing power fully to the millen ni als .
their time is coming , most likely with a president they support in 2020 .
what makes america great
cambridge – presidential inaug ur ations and comm enc ement ceremon ies are usually very emotional events .
they are r ites of passage that mark both an end and a new beginning in the life of a country or an individual .
despite this regul arity , i still become emotional as i see my students complete a phase of their lives and contemplate their future .
one of the highlights of our ceremony is a video in which several professors and public personalities read , line by line , john f. kennedy ’ s inaugural address .
it is a text written 56 years ago , in a different world , where the cold war , the threat of nuclear arm ag ed don , and the challenges faced by so many newly independent poor states dominated policymakers ’ concerns .
and yet , running at under 14 minutes , it never fails to move and inspire everyone in the audience , including that half of the graduates and their families who hail from other countries , near and far .
to understand why , it is useful to recall a few of the most famous pass ages .
for starters , there was kennedy ’ s vow to defend freedom for its friends and from its enemies : “ let every nation know , whether it wishes us well or ill , that we shall pay any price , bear any burden , meet any hardship , support any friend , oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty . ”
there was also his commitment to fight poverty : “ to those people in the hu ts and villages of half the globe struggling to break the bonds of mass misery , we pledge our best efforts to help them help themselves , for whatever period is required – not because the communists may be doing it , not because we seek their votes , but because it is right .
if a free society can not help the many who are poor , it can not save the few who are rich . ”
and this commitment was part and par c el of hemis pheric solidarity : “ to our sister republics south of our border , we offer a special pledge – to convert our good words into good deeds – in a new alliance for progress – to assist free men and free governments in casting off the chains of poverty . ”
finally , there was kennedy ’ s ethic of service on behalf of the commonwealth : “ and so , my fellow americans : ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country .
my fellow citizens of the world : ask not what america will do for you , but what together we can do for the freedom of man . ”
these words ’ enduring emotional appeal is rooted in their embrace of a potentially difficult course of action , motivated by a pledge to uphold values shared by citizens of america and the world alike .
it was this approach – one founded on a value- based system of rules , not on individual deals – that enabled the us to create and sustain a coalition of countries that could maintain peace and international cooperation .
fast forward to today .
president-elect donald trump ’ s campaign narrative was based on the assumption that the us has fallen from its former greatness .
jobs have moved to mexico and china because weak leaders negotiated bad deals .
immigrants , mostly illegal , have taken the few jobs that remain , killing and rap ing in their free time .
it follows that the us needs a president who will put america first and knows how to extract the best deals for it at every opportunity , using the country ’ s full might to advance its interests .
i doubt that an inaugural address based on these ideas will a we and inspire many audiences at comm enc ement ceremon ies , especially where many of those in attendance are citizens of other countries .
such a speech will encourage no one to “ bear any burden ” for the sake of any universal principle or challenge , be it human rights or global warming .
it will not ex hor t us to focus on something bigger than ourselves .
over the course of history , very few powerful states have developed a sense of themselves as being based not on ethnic heritage , but on a set of values that all citizens can live by .
for the us , it was “ life , liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . ”
for the soviet union , it was international pro le tarian solidarity – “ workers of the world , unite . ”
the european union is based on universal values and principles that are so attractive that 28 countries have opted to join it ; and , brexit notwithstanding , some half- dozen more are trying to get in .
by contrast , a great and powerful russia or china today – or the third re ich in its time – may be able to gar ner the support of its citizens ; but such states can not constitute the basis of an international order that others find appealing , because they are based on a vision of themselves that does not encomp ass others .
the basis of america ’ s greatness and ability to lead the world stems from universal values that underpin a set of rules that uphold the others ’ rights , not an america that tries to base its greatness on a set of deals aimed at getting the better of others .
such an america will find its ability to lead the world compromised by a shortage of goodwill and an abundance of distrust .
other countries will hu dd le together to protect themselves from the us bully .
will it inspire the class of 20 73 the way kennedy ’ s address still inspires graduates today ?
america goes from teacher to student
cambridge -- as the united states ’ epic financial crisis continues to unfold , one can only wish that us policymakers were half as good at listening to advice from developing countries as they are at giving it .
americans don ’ t seem to realize that their “ sub-prime ” mortgage meltdown has all too much in common with many previous post-1945 banking crises throughout the world .
the silver lining is that there are many highly distinguished current and former policymakers out there , particularly from emerging market countries , who have seen this movie before .
if us policymakers would only listen , they might get an idea or two about how to deal with financial crises from experts who have lived through them and come out safely on the other side .
unfortunately , the parallel between today ’ s us crisis and previous financial crises is not mere hyperbol e .
the qual itative parallels are obvious : banks using off- balance loans to finance highly risky ventures , ex otic new financial instruments , and excessive exuberance over the promise of new markets .
but there are strong quantitative parallels as well .
professor carmen reinhart of the university of mar y land and i systematically compared the run-up to the us sub-prime crisis with the run-up to the 19 worst financial crises in the industrialized world over the past 60 years .
these include epic crises in the scandinavian countries , spain , and japan , along with lesser events such as the us savings and loan crises of the 1980 ’ s .
across virtually all the major indicators – including equity and housing price run s- ups , trade balance deficits , surges in government and household indebtedness , and pre-crisis growth trajec tories – red lights are bl inking for the us .
simply put , surging capital flows into the us artificially held down interest rates and inflated asset prices , leading to la x ity in banking and regulatory standards and , ultimately , to a meltdown .
when asia and latin america had their financial melt downs in the 1990 ’ s and early 2000 ’ s , they took advice not only from the imf , but also from a number of small panels composed of eminent people representing diverse backgrounds and experiences .
the us should do the same .
the head of the imf , fren ch man dominique straus s- kahn , could easily select a super b panel from any range of former crisis countries , including mexico , brazil , korea , turkey , japan , and sweden , not to mention argentina , russia , chile , and many others .
admittedly , the imf ’ s panel would have to look past america ’ s current hypocrisy .
the us treasury strongly encouraged asia to tighten fiscal policy during its 1990 ’ s crisis .
but today the us congress and president are trip ping over themselves to adopt an ill- advised giant fiscal stimulus package , whose main effects will be to tie the hands of the next president in simp lifying the us tax code and closing the budget deficit .
americans firmly told japan that the only way to clean up its economy was to purge insolvent banks and regener ate the financial system through schum peter ian “ creative destruction . ”
today , us authorities appear willing to contemplate any measure , no matter how inflationary , to insure that none of its major banks and investment houses fails .
for years , foreign governments complained about american hedge funds , arguing that their non- transparent behavior posed unacceptable risks to stability .
now , many us politicians are compl aining about the transparency of sovereign wealth funds ( big government investors mainly from asia and the middle east ) , which are taking shares in tro ph y american assets such as citi bank and mer r ill lyn ch .
in fact , having countries like russia and china more vested in the well-being of the us economy would not be a bad thing .
yes , the imf ought to develop a voluntary code of conduct for sw f ’ s , but it should not be used as a weapon to enforce financial protectionism .
for years , i , along with many others , have complained that emerging markets need greater representation in global financial governance .
today , the issue goes far beyond symbolism .
the us economy is in trouble , and the problems it sp ins off are unlikely to stop at the us border .
experts from emerging markets and elsewhere have much to say about dealing with financial crises .
obamacare and effective government
berkeley – when historians look back on the united states ’ patient protection and affordable care act ( aca ) , president barack obama ’ s controversial 2010 health-care reform , we predict that they will not devote much attention to its regulations , its troubled insurance exchanges , or its website ’ s flawed launch .
instead , we think that they will focus on how “ obamacare ” encouraged a wave of innovation that gradually t amed the spir aling costs of a dysfunctional system , even as millions of previously excluded americans gained access to health insurance .
innovation is probably the least discussed aspect of health-care reform .
yet it is crucial to “ ben ding ” the sector ’ s cost curve , because it enables the delivery of quality health care in cost-effective ways .
obamacare has provided powerful new incentives for such innovation .
from 1980 to 2010 , us health-care spending grew almost twice as fast as the economy , rising from 9. 2 % to 17. 4 % of gdp .
while many factors contributed to this surge , most experts agree that the single most important cause was a fe e- for- service system that rewarded health-care providers for bil ling as many services as possible , rather than for keeping people healthy and treating their illnesses efficiently .
the aca has been changing that , by establishing myriad new incentives to foster efficiency in health-care delivery – for example , by reducing costly and unnecessary hospital infections and read missions , and by adopting electronic health records .
most important , the aca is providing incentives for the creation of “ affordable care organizations , ” “ bund led payment systems , ” and other delivery innovations to encourage better coordination of care , especially for patients with numerous chronic conditions .
such patients are among the 10 % who account for an estimated 64 % of overall health care costs .
around the us , providers , insurers , non- profits , and local governments are responding to the aca ’ s incentives .
the centers for medicare and medicaid services ( which provide health insurance to pensioners and the poor ) has just announced its second round of grants – $ 6 65 million to 28 states , three territories , and the district of columbia – to encourage innovations in health-care delivery .
of course , it is still too early to declare victory , but obamacare seems to be working .
according to a recent analysis by the council of economic advisers ( ce a ) , about ten million people gained health insurance coverage in 2014 as a result of the aca – the largest increase in coverage in four decades .
but the real surprise is that growth in health-care spending slowed dramatically from 2010 to 2013 , to roughly the same pace as gdp growth .
this represented a sharp break from the previous half-century ; indeed , this period was characterized by the slow est growth in real per capita health-care spending on record .
to be sure , the aca is only one factor in this promising trend ; growth in health-care spending often slows in the wake of an economic downturn .
but medicare spending , which is not affected by recessions , has slowed along with private health-care spending .
in a recent study , the ce a concluded that the aca ’ s medicare reforms account for a significant share of the slowdown .
the aca is an example of how government can promote innovation to address major societal challenges by providing goals , directions , and incentives , rather than dict ating solutions .
the government plays a role akin to that of a venture capitalist providing seed money and financial support to foster innovation .
in this scenario , different players – medicare and medicaid , state and local governments , private insurers , physicians , and social entrepreneurs – collaborate to hammer out effective solutions that can be scaled with government revenues .
for example , responding to the aca ’ s incentives and flexibility , ar kansas and or eg on have launched bold experiments to rev amp medicaid , in part by rewarding health-care providers who deliver better outcomes and keep patients healthier .
in cam den , new jer sey , jeffrey br en ner , a family doctor , has pioneered strategies to reduce hospital stays by “ super- utili z ers , ” a small share of medicaid patients who are frequently admitted for expensive acute care .
br en ner m apped “ hot spots ” around cam den , and sought to find out why people in some areas ran up such huge bills .
the problem was not fraud . it was an absence of coordinated medical care , especially basic primary care , and a lack of attention to people ’ s underlying risk factors .
the most expensive 1 % of patients , those with a tang le of issues , accounted for 30 % of cam den ’ s public health-care spending .
br en ner ’ s cam den coalition of healthcare providers , founded in 2003 , received its first funding from a philanthropy , the robert wood johnson foundation , and a private insur er , united health care .
now the government is providing additional support , with grants to similar programs in mar y land , color ado , pennsylvania , and north carolina .
or eg on has entered into a pay-for- success bargain with the federal government .
the state will receive $ 1.9 billion over five years to rev amp its medicaid services along the lines of cam den ’ s approach .
or eg on will get the money only if its per- person medicaid costs climb substantially more slowly than other states ’ .
at the moment , or eg on is on track .
ar kansas has moved 20 different “ episodes ” of health-care delivery ( including hi p and kne e re plac ements , pregnancy , colon os copies , asth ma , and conges tive heart failure ) from fe e- for- service to paying for quality outcomes .
the results so far are promising – not just by reining in costs , but also by better aligning service delivery with best practices .
the government can spur innovation by offering incentives that tap many different players ’ strengths .
in health care , that means taking advantage of the purchasing clout of medicare and medicaid , the risk-taking of social entrepreneurs and philanthropists , and the dynamism of markets and private business .
and health-care reform is just one example in which government can deliver what the public wants by setting goals , encouraging creativity , and providing the resources to scale up what works .
twenty- five years from now , we hope that historians look back on the aca as the start of a new era of public-private collaboration to develop innovative solutions to complex social problems – and thus to restore trust in government itself .
america ’ s hidden debt
washington , dc – former us secretary of the treasury lawrence h. summers recently quipped that , “ fiscal stimulus is like a drug with tolerance effects ; to keep growth constant , deficits have to keep getting larger . ”
people like summers worry about deficits because they doubt that the money the government is borrowing is being spent in ways that will push the long-term growth of gdp above that of the debt .
unless the mix of spending changes , the debt-to-gdp ratio will continue to grow , fore telling disaster .
others do not share such concerns .
on the political left , nobel laureate paul krugman , for example , argues that for “ a country that looks like the united states , a debt crisis is fundamentally not possible . ”
on the right , john tam ny , forb es ’ political economy editor , says , “ ignore the endless talk of doom , budget deficits really don ’ t matter . ”
but while judgments differ about the sustainability of us government debt , they both accept the standard measure of it as accurate .
this is a mistake , and possibly a catastrophic one .
the congressional budget office ( cbo ) recently reported that the federal budget deficit in the first ten months of this fiscal year was $ 1 16 billion higher than it was at the same time last year .
the cbo is now projecting that the annual deficit will reach $ 1 trillion by 2020 .
this is worrying , but it does not reflect the harsh truth . the annual deficit almost certainly surpassed $ 1 trillion last year .
to understand why , think of america as a home with a leak y ro of .
if you wanted to sell that home to a bu yer who is financing the purchase with a mortgage , federal real-estate law would require you to get an ap pra isal , which would show that the ro of needs repa irs .
in this scenario , your maintenance delays can not be ignored .
the law requires that you disclose and pay for the hidden costs of repairing the ro of . otherwise , you are stealing from the bu yer .
true , unlike the mortgage on your balance sheet , you may not regard ro of maintenance as a current liability .
but putting it off doesn ’ t make it disappear .
the federal government also has debt that has not been accounted for , and which one doesn ’ t often hear about .
the debt that has been accounted for is the $ 1 5.6 trillion held by the public in the form of us treasury bonds . the debts that have not been accounted for include the deferred costs of maintenance on roads , water systems , and 5 4, 5 60 structurally deficient bridges , as well as the ye t- to- be - built low-carbon energy systems necessary to mitigate the catastrophic effects of climate change .
and these are just two broad examples .
so , just how much hidden us debt is there ?
at this point , we must rely on rough estimates .
for example , according to a 2016 report from the american society of civil engineers ( as ce ) , upgrading the country ’ s crumbling infrastructure would cost $ 5.2 trillion .
and , according to a 2014 international energy agency ( iea ) report and our own calculations based on the us share of global co2 emissions , transi tioning to a clean-energy system will cost an additional $ 6. 6 trillion .
all told , that is $ 1 1.8 trillion in un accoun t ed- for non- inflation-adjusted liabilities .
to be sure , these debts are not solely federal liabilities .
in the past , state and local governments were responsible for most infrastructure and climate costs .
however , already burdened with more than $ 3 trillion of municipal debt , state governments are overwhelmed by the scale of their defer red- maintenance liabilities and the only recently documented costs of climate change ab at ement .
however , because climate change and infrastructure security are national issues , rather than local , the federal government is ultimately responsible for that $ 1 1.8 trillion in infra struc tu re - and environ ment- related debts .
they are america ’ s national “ leak y ro of . ”
that figure increases every year , because as bridges continue to weaken , it costs even more to fix them ; and as sea levels and temperatures continue to rise , and as forest fires become more severe , it costs more to mitigate the damage .
in fact , between 2012 and 2016 , the as ce increased its estimate of america ’ s annual infra struc ture- investment gap by $ 2 21 billion – about $ 55 billion per year .
and between 2012 and 2014 , the iea increased its estimated cost of moving to a clean-energy system by roughly $ 2 70 billion per year .
together , the un accoun t ed- for inflation-adjusted deficit amounted to $ 3 45 billion – just from delaying needed infrastructure and climate ab at ement spending .
the 2017 us federal deficit was $ 6 65 billion , reflecting the amount by which debt that is actually accounted for increased .
if infrastructure and climate debt that is not accounted for were to be included , the all- in deficit in 2017 would have been over $ 1 trillion .
yes , these are back -of- the- envelop e calculations , but they point to an urgent question : why isn ’ t the us counting its hidden debts ?
the short answer is that the law doesn ’ t require it .
the federal “ debt limit ” was never a firm construct , and under pressure it became a squ ish y “ ceiling suspension ” that allows the government to borrow as much as it wants .
meanwhile , a congressional rule that was intended to ensure fiscal responsibility by prohibiting deficit increases above $ 1.5 trillion within a ten-year window has become an accounting trick to escape responsibility for the 11 th year and beyond .
but just as we are stealing from the home bu yer if we do not disclose and pay for our leak y ro of , we are stealing from future generations of americans when we ignore the full extent of government liabilities .
until all debt is counted , we can not even begin to know whether fiscal policies are having positive or negative effects on future growth .
america ’ s second chance with india
new york – indian prime minister narendra modi ’ s visit to washington , dc , in june gar nered little public attention outside of india .
yet diplomats and military professionals in asia and beyond were certainly watching closely .
for good reason : the rapprochement between the world ’ s two most populous democracies could shape the world ’ s future .
the official joint statement released by the two governments described india as a “ major defense partner ” of the united states , eligible for advanced technologies with military applications .
the relationship between india and the us has evolved from one of cool distance to strategic proximity in a generation – ligh t ning fast for geopolitics .
the factors underlying this shift merit attention , for many of them are likely to bring the two countries even closer .
the cold war ’ s end was a significant part of the bilateral rapprochement , because it eliminated the possibility of india ’ s continued association with the soviet union , as well as its rationale for embracing non- alignment .
a second factor is pakistan .
for a long time , the us pursued an ev en- handed policy toward south asia ’ s two most strategically important countries .
nonetheless , during most of the cold war , pakistan was seen as a friendly country , whereas its great rival , india , was viewed as difficult .
this view was reinforced when pakistan became the essential condu it of weapons to afghans fighting the soviet occupation of their country .
but the bond between the us and pakistan weakened when soviet forces withdrew from afghanistan in 1989 .
relations suffered further from pakistan ’ s development of nuclear weapons , its provision of sanctuary and support to the taliban , and its willingness to extend hospit ality to some of the world ’ s most dangerous terrorists , including osama bin laden .
as a result , us ties to india were no longer constrained by fear of complications in pakistan .
china is also anim ating the improvement in india- us ties .
the motivation is far more fundamental than the fact that india and china still have an unresolved border .
china ’ s rise has created a strong incentive for countries with a stake in asia to increase their cooperation with the us , as well as with one another , to ensure that they can stand up to china ’ s political , military , and economic might .
domestic politics also loom large in the relationship ’ s development – on both sides .
the decline of india ’ s congress party reduced the influence of the political force most associated with maintaining distance from the us .
meanwhile , there are now more than three million indi an- americans , and , as with many other immigrant populations , they have become ever more prominent and powerful .
supporting closer ties with india has become a rare example of bipartisan us foreign policy , and it can be expected to continue regardless of which party controls the white house or congress after this november ’ s elections .
the breakthrough in bilateral ties came a decade ago , when the us lifted sanctions introduced in response to india ’ s nuclear weapons program and then signed an accord paving the way for us involvement in india ’ s civil nuclear energy program .
india , unlike both pakistan and north korea , is seen as a responsible nuclear power , a country the us now supports for membership in various groups designed to stem the further spread of nuclear materials and weapons .
economic ties are also growing , along with india ’ s economy .
bilateral trade has increased to more than $ 100 billion a year .
high-level visits have become commonplace .
closer economic ties and large-scale collaboration on clean energy are a high priority .
one can also predict increased cooperation between the two countries ’ military and intelligence establ ishments .
indeed , joint efforts to keep the indian ocean open and safe are already a reality .
the us and india need not be formal allies for their relationship to have the desired effect on chinese strategic calculations .
challenges remain , of course .
bureaucracy , corruption , and poor infrastructure continue to hold back india ’ s economy .
and they must still ensure that close ties with the us are not simply the policy of one prime minister or party .
this means getting the congress party fully on board and overcoming the resistance of career officials to new ways of thinking and acting .
it is difficult to overlook the irony in much of this .
more than a half-century ago , in the early years of the cold war , many in washington saw india as a potential model of non- communist political and economic development .
for many reasons , things did not work out that way , as india became economically stati st , for a time politically authoritarian , and geopoliti cally closer to the ussr than us officials liked .
now , however , india is emerging as a successful example of a market-oriented democracy with close ties to the us .
second chances are rare in life , but both india and the us may be getting just that .
america keeping haiti down
the id b , the world 's largest regional development bank , works in latin america and the caribbean pur portedly to “ contribute to the acceleration of economic and social development . ”
its actions in haiti , however , have severely undermined those goals .
roughly $ 54 million in id b loans for water infrastructure in haiti , home to literally the world ’ s worst water , offered a proven path to preventing deadly water- borne diseases . designed to assist in fulfilling the right to water in the most impoverished nation in the western hemisphere , these loans and the lives they could have saved instead have become pa w ns in a deliberate political power play .
in 2001 , us officials threatened to use their influence to stop previously approved id b funding unless haiti ’ s majority political party submitted to political demands to accept a particular ap por tion ment of seats in a haiti an electoral oversight body .
soon after , at the beh est of the us , instead of disbur sing the loans as planned , the id b and its members took the unprecedented step of implicitly adding conditions to require political action by haiti before the funds would be released .
these actions violated the id b ’ s own charter , which strictly prohibits the bank and its members from interfer ing in the internal political affairs of member states .
internal emails reveal that a us legal counsel or inside the id b proposed to the us treasury department that , though the loans faced no legitimate technical obstacles , the us could effectively block them by “ slowing ” the process .
indeed , by requ esting further review of the loans , haiti would have to make scheduled payments before the funds were even disbur sed .
“ while this is not a ‘ bul le t- proof ’ way to stop id b disbur s ements , ” the counsel l or wrote , “ it certainly will put a few more large roc ks in the road . ”
in 2001 , then- us ambassador to haiti dean curr an publicly and explicitly linked the with holding of id b loans to the demand that haiti ’ s political parties reach a compromise that america wanted .
these tactics worked .
deprived of funds that had already been committed and expected , haiti fell into arre ars on money owed for loan repayment , triggering id b policies that prevented the bank from releasing loans .
in subsequent years , the us employed additional delaying tactics , working with the id b to move the goal posts whenever haiti appeared to be meeting their demands .
the results have been devastating .
the town of port - de- pa i x , slo tted ten years ago by the id b as the first project site due to its particularly depl orable water situation , has yet to see the implementation of any water projects .
a study conducted by z an m i las ante , partners in health , the robert f. kennedy memorial center for human rights , and new york university ’ s center for human rights and global justice found no functioning public water sources in the city .
researchers found three-quarters of water sources in the city contained high levels of col i form bacteria , a key indicator of contamination with fec al matter .
a frightening 15 % of households reported symptoms likely related to typho id .
if the us and other member states join the id b and take on the responsibility to improve conditions in the americas , they can not then use their membership to undermine the basic rights of the people they claim to serve simply to advance their own political agenda .
the id b and the us government must take responsibility for their actions and implement the necessary transparency mechanisms to ensure that such abuses do not rec ur . congressional inquir ies and annual reviews of the treasury department by the government accountability office could provide the oversight necessary to prevent future political misuse of the id b and its funds .
the people of haiti , as well as us taxpayers , deserve a system that makes public the status of id b loans and projects in haiti in order to ensure that the us and id b member states uphold their commitments to development and human rights .
new haven – the spin is all too predictable .
with the us stock market cl aw ing its way back from the sharp correction of early february , the min dless mantra of the great bull market has returned .
the recent correction is now being characterized as a fle eting aberr ation – a volatility shock – in what is still deemed to be a very accommodating investment climate .
after all , the argument goes , economic fundamentals – not just in the united states , but worldwide – haven ’ t been this good in a long , long time .
but are the fundamentals really that sound ?
for a us economy that has a raz or- thin cushion of saving , nothing could be further from the truth .
america ’ s net national saving rate – the sum of saving by businesses , households , and the government sector – stood at just 2.1 % of national income in the third quarter of 2017 . that is only one-third the 6. 3 % average that prevailed in the final three decades of the twentieth century .
it is important to think about saving in “ net ” terms , which excludes the depreciation of obsolete or wor n- out capacity in order to assess how much the economy is putting aside to fund the expansion of productive capacity .
net saving represents today ’ s investment in the future , and the bottom line for america is that it is saving next to nothing .
alas , the story doesn ’ t end there .
to finance consumption and growth , the us borrows surplus saving from abroad to compensate for the domestic shortfall .
all that borrowing implies a large balance-of-payments deficit with the rest of the world , which spaw ns an equally large trade deficit .
while president donald trump ’ s administration is hardly responsible for this sad state of affairs , its policies are about to make a tough situation far worse .
under the gu ise of tax reform , late last year trump signed legislation that will increase the federal budget deficit by $ 1.5 trillion over the next decade .
and now the us congress , in its infinite wisdom , has up ped the ante by another $ 300 billion in the latest deal to avert a government shutdown .
never mind that deficit spending makes no sense when the economy is ne aring full employment : this sharp widening of the federal deficit is enough , by itself , to push the already- low net national saving rate toward zero . and it ’ s not just the government ’ s red ink that is so troubl esome .
the personal saving rate fell to 2.4 % of disposable ( after-tax ) income in december 2017 , the lowest in 12 years and only about a quarter of the 9. 3 % average that prevailed over the final three decades of the twentieth century .
as domestic saving plun ges , the us has two options – a reduction in investment and the economic growth it supports , or increased borrowing of surplus saving from abroad .
over the past 35 years , america has consistently opted for the latter , running balance-of-payments deficits every year since 1982 ( with a minor exception in 1991 , reflecting foreign contributions for us military expenses in the gulf war ) .
with these deficits , of course , come equally chronic trade deficits with a broad cross- section of america ’ s foreign partners .
aston ishingly , in 2017 , the us ran trade deficits with 10 2 countries .
the multilateral foreign- trade deficits of a sav ing- short us economy set the stage for perhaps the most egregious policy blunder being committed by the trump administration : a shift toward protectionism .
further com pression of an already- weak domestic saving position sp ells growing current-account and trade deficits – a fundamental ax i om of macroeconomics that the us never seems to appreciate .
attempting to solve a multilateral imbalance with bilateral tariffs directed mainly at china , such as those just imposed on solar panels and washing machines in january , doesn ’ t add up .
and , given the growing likelihood of additional trade barriers – as suggested by the us commerce department ’ s recent recommendations of high tariffs on aluminum and steel – the combination of protectionism and ever- widening trade imbalances becomes all the more problematic for a us economy set to become even more dependent on foreign capital .
far from sound , the fundamentals of a sav ing- short us economy look sha k ier than ever .
lacking a cushion of solid support from income generation , the lack of saving also leaves the us far more beholden to fickle asset markets than might otherwise be the case .
that ’ s especially true of american consumers who have relied on appreciation of equity holdings and home values to support over- extended lifestyles .
it is also the case for the us federal reserve , which has turned to unconventional monetary policies to support the real economy via so-called wealth effects .
driven by the momentum of trends in employment , industrial production , consumer sentiment , and corporate earnings , the case for sound fundamentals plays like a broken record during periods of financial market volatility .
but momentum and fundamentals are two very different things .
momentum can be fle eting , especially for a sav ing- short us economy that is consuming the seed corn of future prosperity .
with dysfunctional policies pointing to a further com pression of saving in the years ahead , the myth of sound us fundamentals has never run g more hollow .
america ’ s midterm elections turn men ac ing
washington , dc – with the approach of this year ’ s midterm elections in the united states , domestic terrorism is starting to dominate the political landscape .
first , barely two weeks before election day , an angry supporter of us president donald trump began sending 14 bombs to prominent democrats and others whom trump has frequently attacked .
( none of the bombs exploded . )
then things became much worse , with the murder , on a satur day , of 11 jews in a pit ts burgh syn agogue .
today , a polarized and anxious american public finds itself with a president totally un suited to , and not very interested in , comforting the nation , much less trying to lead it away from the hate and deadly parti san ship that he has stoked .
had the 14 crude bombs , which the fbi called “ potentially destructive devices , ” worked as intended , the bomb maker could have killed or gra vely injured a who ’ s who of trump adversaries .
the list included two former presidents ( bill clinton and barack obama ) , hillary clinton , former attorney general eric holder ; a former cia director ; a former director of national intelligence ; two likely democratic presidential candidates in 2020 ; a black congres s woman whom trump frequently describes as “ low i q ” ( a common racist charge ) ; two prominent jewish billionaire philanthropists , one of whom , george soros , is a frequent target of trump and the subject of various right-wing conspiracy fantasies ; and the actor robert de n iro ( who began his speech at this year ’ s tony awar ds ceremony by declaring , “ f uck trump ” ) .
though trump had frequently singled out many of the bom ber ’ s targets at his rallies – still attacking hillary clinton , his election opponent in 2016 , for example , and then s mil ing as his audience chan ted “ lock her up ” – trump ’ s defenders tried to throw the spotlight elsewhere .
the mail bombs , they claimed , were a “ false flag ” operation by the left , with some of the democrats even sending the bombs to themselves in order to blame trump .
so it was highly inconvenient for true believers when the would-be bom ber turned out to be a fanati cal trump supporter who lives in florida and drives a white van covered in h ate- filled depic tions of his targets .
us law enforcement agencies – another frequent target of trump – are extremely good at tracking down mis cre ants : the suspect was arrested four days after the first bomb was discovered in soros ’ s ma il box .
the most dis hear tening aspect of the entire episode was trump ’ s utter in capacity as a national leader .
but that should surprise no one .
how could a president who has thr ived politically on dividing the american people , who has been spe wing hate , s owing resentment , and at times even encouraging violence at his rallies , suddenly be – or even pretend to be – a he al er ?
in fact , trump ’ s pattern of incitement and routine den unci ations of the media as “ the enemy of the people ” had convinced many that some of his followers might resort to violence against members of the press .
the day after the discovery of the bombs sent to the clint ons and the obam as , among others , a subdued trump read a prepared statement at a pres ch ed uled white house ceremony , condemning “ acts or threats of political violence ” and saying that the nation must unify .
it didn ’ t last .
by that evening , at a rally in wis con sin , he was making fun of his “ trying to be nice ” act and blamed the media for the violence .
and soon he was back to wh ipping up fear of a car av an of refugees from hondur as .
though still roughly 1,000 miles from the us border , trump portrayed the refugees as an imminent national security threat , warning , without evidence , that “ middle east er ners ” were among them .
trump ’ s rallies are now almost a daily event , and his lies are even more frequent than before .
with the entire house of representatives and one-third of the senate to be chosen on november 6 , the upcoming midterm election is widely regarded as the most consequential in memory , perhaps ever .
the republicans ’ two-year lock on the entire us government – the house , the senate , the presidency , and , with the recent addition of justice bre tt k av an augh , the supreme court – could be broken .
the midterm election following the election of a new president is often considered a verdict on the incumbent , and his party usually loses strength , particularly in the house .
he tells audiences that though he ’ s not on the ballot , they should vote as if he were ( though his approval ratings are in the low for ties ) .
it has long been believed that the democrats are more likely to win the house than the senate , because several of the senate seats in play are held by democrats in traditionally conservative states .
trump ’ s determination , or anxiety , that republicans maintain control of both chambers is understandable .
should the democrats take over the house , newly empowered committee chair men , armed with sub po en as , will launch investigations of a broad range of administration actions and agencies , where extensive corruption is suspected .
but the real , almost palpable , fear on trump ’ s part is that a democrati c -controlled house will focus all manner of investigations on him personally : his acceptance of constitutionally forbidden “ em ol uments ” from foreign countries ; his failure to separate himself sufficiently from the family business ; his tax returns ; his un authorized foreign wars in yemen and syria ; and of course his official and private dealings with russia .
at least the house is likely to have the conclusions of special counsel robert mueller to consider .
in other words , no more lap dog congress .
but if the republicans maintain control of the senate , there will be limits on what the democrats can achieve .
even if the house were to impe ach trump – no sure thing – convic ting him in the senate would be extremely difficult .
whether a democratic house would even proceed in that direction has been the subject of intra- party debate .
the nightmare election possibility for the democrats is continued republican control of both chambers .
in that case , trump will feel vindicated and more liberated than ever .
he might then fire a raft of officials , treat immigrants still more harsh ly , and try to shut down mueller ’ s investigation of his campaign ’ s possible collusion with the kremlin and trump ’ s probable obstruc tion of justice .
the conventional wisdom may prevail , with the democrats winning the house but not the senate .
but the polls have been fluctu ating .
and since trump ’ s stunning election victory in 2016 , most observers have become more cautious about predicting outcomes .
alliances for peace
washington , dc – i grew up in the shadow of world war ii , and at the dawn of the cold war .
my father ’ s work as a foreign service officer gave me an opportunity to see history up close in a se aring way : i will never forget walking the be aches of nor man dy with him and seeing the burned h ul ks of higg ins ’ boats still on those shores , just a few years after so many young men went to their gra ves so the world could be free .
likewise , i will never forget the e er ie feeling of riding my bi ke through the br and en burg gate from west berlin into the east , and seeing the contrast between people who were free and those who were trapped behind the iron curtain .
what strikes me now , all these years later , is that a generation of leaders won not only a war , but also the peace .
they did it together .
the united states and our partners worked to create alliances that brought prosperity and stability to western europe , japan , and south korea .
old enemies became new allies , and together pioneered a new global economic system that made the world more prosperous .
and even as the cold war raged , leaders found ways to cooperate on arms control and prevent a nuclear arm ag ed don .
in short , by building effective and indispensable international institutions and strategic partnerships , we did not just avoid another catastrophic world war ; we ultimately ended the cold war and lifted global living standards for hundreds of millions of people .
that is the remarkable story of the twentieth century .
the question now is what story will emerge from the twenty-first century .
today , the world order faces new challenges .
extremists who hij ack religion threaten governments and people everywhere .
technology is accelerating a shift in the balance of power between governments and governed that offers both opportunities for democratic accountability and obstacles to inclusive politics .
we have gone from a world where power resid ed in hierarch ies to one where it in habits networks .
statecraft has yet to adapt .
the international institutions and partnerships that emerged in the postwar years demand both maintenance and modernization .
in the face of all of this turbulence , some suggest that america should turn inward .
that is nothing new .
some argued the same after wwii .
they argued it again 25 years ago , after the fall of the berlin wall .
they were wrong then – and they are wrong now .
the need for leadership has never been greater , and the us has never been more engaged with the world .
our role in afghanistan ’ s first-ever peaceful , democratic transition reminds us all that , having invested so much blood and treas ure in helping to give afghans a chance to succeed in battle , the world has just as much responsibility to help its leaders succeed in governance .
we know that the destruction of 100 % of syria ’ s declared chemical weapons would not have happened without direct , hand s- on diplomacy and per sever ance , just as syria ’ s immoral and hor rif ying civil war will not end without an equal commitment .
so , too , in asia , where president barack obama and chinese president xi jinping just announced ambitious commitments to tackle climate change , we are reminded of what countries can accomplish together with real leadership – and of how much additional leadership is required to conclude a successful climate agreement in paris next year .
the world has changed , and we are changing with it .
lines on the map no longer contain the gravest threats , and the players are no longer divided neatly into two camps .
in the twenty-first century , next door is everywhere .
that is why the world needs coalition diplomacy .
no country can defeat terrorism on its own .
no country can solve the existential threat of climate change alone .
no country can eradicate extreme poverty , combat potential pandemics , or improve nuclear security by itself .
none of us can live safer , richer lives by turning our back to the world .
we must build on our history of working with allies by forming new coalitions – with governments , with civil society , and , yes , with everyday people .
a good example is the international effort to confront the islamic state ’ s malign brutality in iraq and syria .
political , humanitarian , and intelligence tools from more than 60 countries are being used to support unified military action .
success depends not on what one or even a handful of countries can do alone , but on what all of us are able to achieve by moving forward together against this common threat .
on an equally important front , the us is working with the united nations to galvanize a global response to the danger posed by the ebola virus .
i have personally talked with more than 50 foreign leaders , and we all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we stop the devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’ s spread .
we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains .
it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls upon relationships that have been built and maintained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners .
but by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conqu er ebola , we are reinforcing support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to common problems .
cooperation is equally vital in reinforcing the bedrock economic principles on which america and other countries built their postwar prosperity .
frustration can not grow faster than opportunity in any country .
for example , the negotiations on the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) reflect president obama ’ s determination to strike an accord with countries that represent one-third of global trade and 40 % of global gdp .
the benefits – for both the us and our partners – are enormous .
estimates are that the tpp could provide $ 77 billion a year in real income and support 6 50,000 new jobs in the us alone .
the transatlantic trade and investment partnership being negotiated with the european union offers another major step toward increasing trade .
whether for mutual security or shared prosperity , genuine partnerships are not built overnight .
patient diplomacy and a collective will are needed to advance common goals . america ’ s objectives remain the same as they have been for decades – peace , prosperity , and stability for the us and for our partners around the world .
closing the investment gap
berkeley – the weakness of private investment in the united states and other advanced economies is a worrisome – and per ple x ing – feature of the recovery from the 2008 global financial crisis .
indeed , according to the international monetary fund , through 2014 , private investment declined by an average of 25 % compared to pre-crisis trends .
the shortfall in investment has been deep and broad-based , affecting not only residential investment but also investment in equipment and structures .
business investment remains significantly below pre- 2008 expectations , and has been hit hard again in the us during the last year by the collapse of energy- sector investment in response to the steep drop in oil prices .
interestingly , the investment shortfall in the us coin cides with a strong rebound in returns to capital .
by one measure , returns to private capital are now at a higher point than any time in recent decades .
but extensive empirical research confirms that at the macro level , business investment depends primarily on expected future demand and output growth , not on current returns or retained earnings .
according to the imf , this “ acceler ator ” theory of investment explains most of the weakness of business investment in the developed economies since the 2008 crisis .
in accordance with this explanation , investment growth in the us has been in line with its usual historical relationship with output growth .
in short , private investment growth has been weak primarily because the pace of recovery has been anemic .
businesses have marked down their pre-crisis investment plans to reflect a post-crisis “ new normal ” of slower and more uncertain growth in demand for their output .
under conditions of weak aggregate demand , stronger public investment encourages more private business investment .
but public investment , too , has fallen below pre-crisis expectations , aggrav ating rather than amelior ating the slump in private investment .
the acceler ator explanation of the shortfall in business investment in the us is consistent with evidence that , where projected demand growth has been relatively strong – for example , in cable , telecommunications , digital platforms , social networking , and , until recently , energy – investment growth has also been relatively strong .
indeed , telec om and cable companies accounted for the largest share of business capital expenditures during the last three years , with energy production and mining second on the list .
differences in innovation opportunities across industries are also consistent with the changing composition of business investment .
during the 2009- 2015 period , while business investment in equipment slowed in the us , it accelerated in intellectual property products , including research and development , software , and so-called arti s tic origin als ( the output of artists , stu di os , and publish ers ) .
r & d investment usually expands faster than gdp during cyclical expan sions , and the current period is in line with historical trends .
as the acceler ator theory of investment would predict , much r & d investment is occurring in technology- intensive sectors where current and future expected demand has been strong .
there is also evidence that the distribution of returns to capital is becoming increasingly skewed toward these sectors .
according to a recent mckinsey global institute report , the most dig itized sectors – ranked by 18 metrics on digital assets , digital usage , and digital workforce – enjoy significantly higher profit margins than traditional sectors .
in a recent letter to the chief executives of the s & p 500 companies and large european corporations , larry fin k , the ceo of black rock , the world ’ s largest investment management company , expressed concern that many global firms may be sacrificing value- creating investments by distributing dividends and buying back their own shares .
among us non financial corporations , the proportion of invest able funds used for dividends and share buy backs has been tr ending upward , albeit with cyclical ups and downs , since the 1980s .
after a sharp downturn during the 2008-2009 recession , this proportion has now recovered to nearly 50 % , a high point relative to historical averages .
the macro evidence indicates that the primary cause of disappointing business investment in the us and other developed countries in the years following the global financial crisis has been anemic demand , not a lack of invest able funds resulting from excessive distribu tions to shareholders .
over the longer term , however , the upward trend in dividends and share buy backs as a percentage of corporate invest able funds is a symptom of mounting shareholder pressure on corporations to focus on short-term returns at the expense of long-term investments .
in a recent mckinsey survey of 1,000 top executives and corporate directors , 63 % reported that shareholder pressure to realize short-term returns has increased over the last several years .
indeed , some 79 % reported pressure to demonstrate strong financial returns in two years or less .
shareholder pressure tends to be greater in older firms , and in the us over the last few decades , the proportion of older firms has been growing as the startup rate for new businesses has fallen .
in addition , as fin k and others have warned , compensation practices that link top executives ’ pay to measures of short-term success like quarterly earnings per share or annual equity performance also encourage “ short-termism ” in corporate investment decisions .
a sliding capital gains tax , with rates that decline as the holding period for investments increases , would reduce incentives for short-termism among investors .
among others , larry fin k , the center for american progress , and hillary clinton propose this approach .
in his recent ceo letter , fin k also calls on companies to issue annual “ strategic frameworks ” for long-term value creation , supported by quanti fiable financial metrics and linking long-term executive compensation to performance on them .
these frameworks , fin k notes , should cover environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors that are core determinants of long-term value .
companies can use the new evidence-based standards developed by the sustainability accounting standards board to disclose material information about their esg performance to their investors .
strategic frameworks , along with esg disclosure , should encourage both companies and their shareholders to focus more on long-term value and less on short-term financial performance .
but at the macro level , expected growth in demand and associated innovation opportunities will remain the primary drivers of business investment .
inequality and the american child
new york – children , it has long been recognized , are a special group .
they do not choose their parents , let alone the broader conditions into which they are born .
they do not have the same abilities as adults to protect or care for themselves .
that is why the league of nations approved the geneva declaration on the rights of the child in 19 24 , and why the international community adopted the convention on the rights of the child in 1989 .
sadly , the united states is not living up to its obligations .
in fact , it has not even ratified the convention on the rights of the child .
the us , with its cherished image as a land of opportunity , should be an inspiring example of just and enlightened treatment of children .
instead , it is a beacon of failure – one that contributes to global slu gg ishness on children ’ s rights in the international arena .
though an average american childhood may not be the worst in the world , the disparity between the country ’ s wealth and the condition of its children is un parall eled .
among developed countries , only romania has a higher rate of child poverty .
the us rate is two-thirds higher than that in the united kingdom , and up to four times the rate in the nordic countries .
for some groups , the situation is much worse : more than 38 % of black children , and 30 % of his panic children , are poor .
none of this is because americans do not care about their children .
it is because america has embraced a policy agenda in recent decades that has caused its economy to become wildly unequal , leaving the most vulnerable segments of society further and further behind .
the growing concentration of wealth – and a significant reduction in taxes on it – has meant less money to spend on investments for the public good , like education and the protection of children .
as a result , america ’ s children have become worse off .
their fate is a painful example of how inequality not only undermines economic growth and stability – as economists and organizations like the international monetary fund are finally acknowledging – but also violates our most cherished notions of what a fair society should look like .
income inequality is correlated with inequalities in health , access to education , and exposure to environmental hazards , all of which burden children more than other segments of the population .
indeed , nearly one in five poor american children are diagnosed with asth ma , a rate 60 % higher than non- poor children .
learning disabilities occur almost twice as frequently among children in households earning less than $ 3 5,000 a year than they do in households earning more than $ 100,000 .
and some in the us congress want to cut food st amps – on which some 23 million american households depend , threatening the poorest children with hunger .
these inequalities in outcomes are closely tied to inequalities in opportunities .
inevitably , in countries where children have inadequate nutrition , insufficient access to health care and education , and higher exposure to environmental hazards , the children of the poor will have far different life prospects from those of the rich .
and , partly because an american child ’ s lifetime prospects are more dependent on his or her parents ’ income and education than in other advanced countries , the us now has the least equality of opportunity of any advanced country .
at america ’ s most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the population , while 74 % come from the top quarter .
most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential .
some countries even impose a constitutional mandate for equality of educational opportunities .
but in america , more is spent on the education of rich students than on the education of the poor .
as a result , the us is wasting some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – ber ef t of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities .
american states like california spend about as much on prisons as on higher education – and sometimes more .
without compens atory measures – including pre- school education , ideally beginning at a very young age – unequal opportunities translate into unequal lifelong outcomes by the time children reach the age of five .
that should be a spur to policy action .
indeed , while inequality ’ s harmful effects are wide- reaching , and impose huge costs on our economies and societies , they are largely avoidable .
the extremes of inequality observed in some countries are not the inexor able result of economic forces and laws .
the right policies – stronger social safety nets , progressive taxation , and better regulation ( especially of the financial sector ) , to name a few – can reverse these devastating trends .
to generate the political will that such reforms require , we must confront policymakers ’ inertia and inaction with the grim facts of inequality and its devastating effects on our children .
we can reduce childhood deprivation and increase equality of opportunity , thereby laying the groundwork for a more just and prosperous future – one that reflects our own av owed values .
so why don ’ t we ?
whatever responsibility poor adults may bear for their lot in life – they may not have worked hard enough , saved enough , or made good decisions – children ’ s circumstances are thrust upon them without any sort of choice .
children , perhaps more than anyone , need the protection that rights afford – and the us should be providing the world with a shining example of what that means .
american conservatism ’ s crisis of ideas
berkeley – on the back left corner of my des k right now are three recent books : arthur broo ks ’ the battle , charles mur ray ’ s coming apart , and nicholas e ber stad t ’ s a nation of ta kers .
together , they constitute an important intellectual movement , which also happens to be a large part of the reason that american conservatism today has little that is constructive to say about managing the economy – and little purchase on the center of the american electorate .
but let ’ s back up historically , to the founding of what we might call modern conservatism in early nineteenth-century britain and france .
there were some – fr é dé ric bas ti at and jean- b ap ti st e say come to mind – who believed that government should put the unemployed to work building infrastructure when markets or production were temporarily disrupted .
but they were balanced by those like n ass au senior , who spoke out against even famine relief : although a million people would die in the irish po ta to famine , “ that would scarcely be enough . ”
the main thrust of early conservatism was roo t- and- branch opposition to every form of social insurance : make the poor richer , and they would become more fertile .
as a result , farm sizes would drop ( as land was divided among ever more children ) , labor productivity would fall , and the poor would become even poorer .
social insurance was not just pointless ; it was counterproductive .
the proper economic policy was to teach people to v ener ate the throne ( so that they would respect property ) , the pat er nal hear th ( so that they would not marry im prudently young ) , and the religious al tar ( so that they would fear pre- mar ital sex ) .
then , perhaps , with women ch ast e for half or more of their child bearing years , the surplus population would diminish and conditions for the poor would be as good as they could be .
fast- forward 150 years to post-world war ii america , and to the original chicago school critique of the new deal version of social insurance – that it created “ not ches ” that per verted economic incentives .
the government , milton friedman and others argued , told the poor : make more money and we will take away your free housing , food st amps , and income support .
people are rational , friedman said , so they will not work for long if they get nothing or next to nothing for it .
the big difference between the mal thu sian conservative critics of social insurance in the early nineteenth century and the chicago critics of the 1970 ’ s is that the chicago critics had a point : providing public support to the “ worthy ” poor , and then removing it when they began to stand on their own feet , poisoned incentives and was unlikely to lead to good outcomes .
and so , from 1970 to 2000 , a broad coalition of conservatives ( who wanted to see the government stop encouraging im morality ) , centr ists ( who wanted government money spent effectively ) , and leftists ( who wanted poverty allevi ated ) removed the “ not ches ” from the social- insurance system .
presidents jimmy carter , ronald reagan , george h. w. bush , bill clinton , and even george w. bush and their supporters created the current system , in which tax rates and eligibility thresholds are not punitive dis incentives to enterprise .
so what is the problem that america ’ s new generation of conservative critics of social insurance sees ?
it is not that raising poor people ’ s standard of living above bare subsistence produces mal thu sian catastrophe , or that taxes and withdrawal of welfare benefits make people work , at the margin , for nothing .
for e ber stad t , the problem is that dependence on government is em as cul ating , and that too many people are dependent on government .
for broo ks , it is that knowing that public programs make one ’ s life easier causes one to vote for non- republican candidates .
for mur ray , it is that social insurance means that behaving badly does not lead to catastrophe – and we need bad behavior to lead to catastrophe in order to keep people from behaving badly .
the crucial point is that america ’ s conservative elites believe broo ks , e ber stad t , and mur ray .
to this day , mitt romney is convinced that he lost the presidency in 2012 because barack obama un fairly gave lat in o- americans subsidized health insurance ; gave women free reproductive health coverage ( excluding abortion ) ; and gave other groups similar “ gifts . ”
he could “ never convince them that they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives . ”
in fact , it would be a tough sell for any candidate to convince americans who receive government benefits that they are dependent rather than empowered ; that it is bad for people to vote for politicians who make their lives better ; and that good public policy seeks to create human catastrophe rather than to avert it .
the problem for american conservatives is not their choice of candidates or the tone of their rhetoric . it is that their ideas are not politically sustainable .
new york – alexis de tocqueville , a liberal french arist ocr at , visited the united states in 18 31 ostensibly to write a study of its “ enlightened ” prison system ( locking people up in sol itary confin ement like pen it ent monks was the latest modern idea ) .
out of this trip came de tocqueville ’ s master piece , democracy in america , in which he expressed admiration for american civil liberties and compared the world ’ s first genuine liberal democracy favorably with old world institutions .
but de tocqueville had serious reservations , too .
the biggest danger to us democracy , he believed , was the tyranny of the majority , the suff oc ating intellectual con formity of american life , the stifling of minority opinion and dissent .
he was convinced that any exercise of unlimited power , be it by an individual despo t or a political majority , is bound to end in disaster .
democracy , in the sense of majority rule , needs restraints , just like any other system of government .
that is why the british have mixed the authority of elected politicians with that of arist ocratic privilege .
and it is why americans still cher ish their constitution ’ s separation of governmental powers .
by contrast , in the french republican system , the state represents the so-called will of the people .
as a result , its authority is less constrained , which may explain the greater frequency in france of street demonstrations and even of mob violence .
indeed , these upheavals may act as informal checks on official power .
de tocqueville identified another source of restraint in the us system : the power of religion .
human greed , as well as the temptation of going to extremes , was tempered by the moder ating influence of a shared christian faith .
liberty , in the us , was inextricably ent win ed with religious belief .
the spectacle of american politics today would seem to cast doubt on de tocqueville ’ s observation .
or , rather , the rhetoric of many republicans aspiring to be president sounds like a per version of what he saw in 18 31 .
religion and liberty are still mentioned in one breath , but often to promote extreme views .
religious minorities are denounced .
apocalyptic fears are stoked .
intolerance is promoted .
all in the name of god .
of course , the us is not the only country where fringe demagogues are now pois oning mainstream politics .
religious language is less often heard in western europe , but all the more in parts of eastern europe , turkey , and israel .
and the message of populism is similar everywhere in the democratic world : liberal elites are to be blamed for all our ills and anxieties , from europe ’ s refugee crisis to the inequities of the global economy , from “ multiculturalism ” to the rise of radical islam .
populism is causing considerable alarm , not least because mainstream politicians seem less and less capable of finding a convincing way to stop its rise .
those who are rightly worried about the politics of fear like to assume that populism is a threat to democracy itself .
distrust of the elites fosters distrust of the system , and the long ing for great leaders who will deliver us from the sel fish ness of professional politicians will lead to new forms of tyranny .
that may turn out to be true .
but , in fact , it is not really democracy that is pres ently under siege .
if nothing else , the donald trump phenomenon shows that old party establ ishments can be skir ted by popular outsiders .
social media also make it possible to bypass the traditional fil ters of authority , such as serious newspapers or broad cast ers , and publish any point of view directly .
the power of private fortunes to sway public opinion , especially in the us , also up sets the traditional order .
anti- eliti sm can be fan ned by vast individual wealth , because eliti sm is defined less by financial clout than by education .
angry people sw ayed by the populist message are angr ier at liberal professors , clever bankers , or skeptical journalists than they are at multi- billionaires .
( it is both president barack obama ’ s elite education and the color of his skin – or , rather , the combination of the two – that has attracted so much rage . )
at the same time , people have more power to elect power- hungry c roo ks than they did before .
like the wild and wo ol ly views sw ir ling around the internet , such figures are no longer kept at bay by traditional party elites .
what is steadily falling away is not democracy , but the restraints that de tocqueville thought were essential to make liberal politics work .
more and more , populist leaders regard their election by the majority of voters as a license to crush all political and cultural dissent .
de tocqueville ’ s nightmare is not yet the reality in the us , but it is close to what we see in russia , turkey , hungary , and perhaps poland .
even israel , which , despite its many obvious problems , has always had a robust democracy , is moving in this direction , with government ministers demanding proof of “ state loyalty ” from writers , artists , and journalists .
it is hard to see how traditional elites are going to regain any authority .
and yet i think de tocqueville was right .
without editors , there can be no serious journalism .
without parties led by experienced politicians , the borders between show business and politics will disappear .
without limits placed on the appeti tes and prejudices of the majority , intolerance will rule .
this is not a question of nostalgia or s no b ber y .
nor is it a ple a to trust anyone with a plausible air of authority .
anger at the elites is not always unjust .
globalization , immigration , and cosmopolit anism have served the interests of a highly educated minority , but sometimes at the expense of less privileged people .
and yet , the problem identified by de tocqueville in the 18 3 0s is more relevant now than ever .
liberal democracy can not be reduced to a popularity contest .
constraints on majority rule are necessary to protect the rights of minorities , be they ethnic , religious , or intellectual .
when that protection dis appears , we will all end up losing the freedoms that democracy was supposed to defend .
the indispensable american partner
madrid – the united states is ge aring up for that most in tox icating ( and exhau sting ) of political events : an open- seat race for the presidency .
with us president barack obama 's eight years in office coming to an end , and vice president joe biden unlikely to run , the race will be without an incumbent .
as a result , the election could be less a referendum on the last eight years than a contest of ideas , with foreign policy emerging as a key topic .
as for the democrats , former secretary of state hillary clinton 's likely nomination ( despite recent revelations that she used her personal email account to conduct government business ) reinforces foreign policy 's centrality to the election .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help
from my perspective as the group 's only european member , the overarching message should be that the us must conce ive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , '' as it now does , but as “ the indispensable partner . ''
this is not merely a matter of sem an tics ; such a change will require the us to re- conce ive its role in the world .
but the payoff , for both the us and the liberal world order that it created , would be substantial .
the key to success will be america 's ability to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of that most american of notions : exceptionalism .
the sense in the us that the country is unique , with a special mission to promote prosperity , security , and freedom worldwide , has long shaped american foreign policy .
the idea extends as far back as 16 30 , when john win thro p , the massachusetts bay col ony 's first governor , declared that his community must act as a
in doing so , he planted the seed of the valu es-based approach that was adopted by the us as it spearheaded the development of the rules and structures that order today 's world .
those rules and structures have delivered unprecedented economic growth , benefiting all ( though the us has re aped the greatest rewards ) .
but , ironically , the notion of american exceptionalism often has led the us to undermine the international system that it nurtured .
indeed , us history reveals a persistent isolationist stre ak , in which the “ city upon a hill '' is not a beacon , but a for tress .
at times , including over the last six years , the belief that the us is better off going it alone has led to withdrawal from the world .
this tendency was not a serious issue before world war ii ( though the people of abys sin ia and man chur ia may be g to differ ) .
but today , us withdrawal from the international system that it built has serious ramifications – namely , the kind of chaos and lawlessness exemplified by russia 's invasion of ukraine .
yet isolationism is not america 's most destructive impulse .
worse is its “ exemp tionalism '' : its penchant for opting out of the rules that it promotes – and often actively en forces – elsewhere .
the lengthy – and growing – list of major international conventions left un ratified by the us includes the
beyond the resentment that such an attitude eng enders , american exemp tionalism directly undermines multilateral institutions ' capacity to address challenges that the us is unwilling or unable to resolve on its own .
how can the us expect china to follow rules on maritime del im itation in the east and south china seas when it refuses to ratify the united nations
us president barack obama 's administration has tried to create the illusion of a change of course in this regard , pushing “ soft '' deals that allow the us to participate without sub mitting to binding rules .
such was the case with the much- lauded
but , though such arrangements make for great headlines , they do not provide the stability and predictability necessary for long-term success .
for that ,
if the us is to serve as the world 's “ indispensable partner , '' it must recomm it to the rules-based order that has served it – and the world – so well for the last seven decades .
it should begin by strengthening the fl agging institutions that have served as the backbone of the liberal international order .
specifically , the us should finally approve the
indispensable partnership is about helping countries help themselves .
it requires vision , commitment , and , most important , leadership .
american foreign policy after iraq
what comes after iraq ?
if president george w. bush ’ s current troop “ surge ” fails to produce an outcome that can be called “ victory , ” what lessons will the united states draw for its future foreign policy ?
will it turn inward , as it did after its defeat in vietnam three decades ago ?
will it turn from promoting democracy to a narrow realist view of its interests ?
even while discussion in washington is fixated on iraq , a number of thoughtful foreign observers are asking these longer-term questions .
analysts and pundits have often been mistaken about america ’ s position in the world .
for example , two decades ago , the conventional wisdom was that the us was in decline .
a decade later , with the cold war ’ s end , the new conventional wisdom was that the world was a unipolar american hegemony .
some neo- conservative pundits drew the conclusion that the us was so powerful that it could decide what it thought was right , and others would have to follow .
charles k ra u th am mer celebrated this view as “ the new unilateralism , ” and it heavily influenced the bush administration even before the attacks on september 11 , 2001 .
but the new unilateralism was based on a profound misunderstanding of the nature of power in world politics .
power is the ability to get the outcomes one wants .
whether the possession of resources will produce such outcomes depends upon the context .
for example , a large , modern tank army is a powerful resource if a war is fought in a desert , but not if it is fought in a sw amp – as america discovered in vietnam .
in the past , it was assumed that military power dominated most issues , but in today ’ s world , the contexts of power differ greatly .
i have lik ened the distribution of power in politics today as analogous to a three- dimensional chess game .
on the top board – military relations among states – the world is , indeed , unipolar , and likely to remain that way for decades .
but on the middle board of economic relations , the world is already multipolar , and the us can not obtain the outcomes it wants without the cooperation of europe , japan , china , and others .
and , on the bottom board of transnational issues outside the control of governments – including everything from climate change to pandemics to transnational terrorism – power is cha o tically distributed , and it makes no sense at all to claim american hegemony .
yet it is on this bottom board that we find most of the greatest challenges we face today .
the only way to grapple with these problems is through cooperation with others , and that requires the “ soft ” power of attraction as well as the hard power of coercion . there is no simple military solution that will produce the outcomes we want .
the new unilater alists who dominated bush ’ s first administration made the mistake of thinking that the unipolar distribution of power in the military context was sufficient to guide foreign policy .
they were like a young boy with a hammer who thinks that every problem resembles a nail .
the danger of their approach is now obvious .
whoever plays a three- dimensional game by focusing on only one board is bound to lose in the long run .
fortunately , the pendulum has begun to swing back toward cooperation .
in bush ’ s second term , some of the most extreme unilater alists have depar ted from the government , and the president has approached difficult problems like north korea or iran with a more multilateral approach than during his first term .
likewise , for all the complaints about the united nations , the us and others turned to un peacekeepers to sort out the mess after the lebanon war last summer .
americans now view cooperative action on global climate change more favorably .
similarly , the threat of pandemics means that americans may come to recognize the importance of a stronger world health organization , just as the problem of nuclear proliferation is increasing awareness of the importance of the international atomic energy agency .
the nature of these problems means that the us does not have the luxury of turning inward no matter what the outcome in iraq .
these are not problems you can leave overseas .
they follow you home .
it also is unlikely that american foreign policy will return to a narrow realism and drop all emphasis on democracy and human rights .
while the iraq war discredited the idea of coercive democratization , both republicans and democrats have a strong str and of idealism in their foreign policy ori ent ations .
the problem for whoever is elected president in 2008 will be to find appropriate realistic means to advance democratic values and adjust official rhetoric accordingly .
when rhetoric greatly out stri ps reality , others view it as hypocrisy .
americans will need to find ways to assert their narrative of democracy , freedom , and rights in a manner that respects diversity and the views of others .
what iraq has taught is the importance of developing civil society and the rule of law before trying to hold broad-based elections .
democracy is more than voting , for it requires large investments in education , institutions , and promotion of non-governmental organizations .
it must be rooted in the indigenous society and bear its characteristics , not be imposed from abroad .
it is highly unlikely that the us will react after iraq as it did after vietnam .
the paradox of american power is that the world ’ s only military superpower can not protect its citizens by acting alone .
us foreign policy after the midterm election
washington , dc – one thing missing from the recent us midterm election campaigns was a focus on foreign policy .
while much was made of the migrant car av an making its way from central america through mexico , issues such as trade with china , iran , north korea , and even russia and cyber sub ter fu ge didn ’ t get much traction .
with the democratic party having regained control of the us house of representatives , that will change .
a cor nered president donald trump is likely to turn to a favorite tactic of autocrats everywhere : manufacturing foreign-policy crises to distract the public ’ s attention from problems at home .
trump ’ s determination to control media headlines makes him all the more likely , when it suits him , to call attention to the troubles in the middle east , re discover the north korean nuclear threat , and force the democrats to make a tough choice between being hard on russia or getting into an arms race .
trump may also decide to use congress as a foreign-policy f oil , tos sing international challenges back into the l ap of lawmakers , who will be hard- pressed to come up with good answers .
after all , in trump ’ s zero-sum “ i win , you lose ” view of the world , congressional failures that he can blame on the democrats are almost as good as white house successes .
with the us house of representatives under “ new management , ” including a record number of democratic women , trump has a tempting target .
he has every incentive to show the newcomers up by passing the ball and watching them fail .
in this new contest to pass the blame , syria is ripe for the picking .
eli ot eng el , the incoming chairman of the house foreign affairs committee , has already said that the democrats may seek congressional authorization for the use of military force in syria .
but no one , democrat or republican , has a plausible plan either for ending the war in syria or even for helping syrian civilians in significant numbers , other than making it risky for syria ’ s ruler , bashar al-assad , to use chemical weapons too blat antly .
any move the democrats make will be unpopular with their own voters and will simply shift attention from trump ’ s inability to solve the problem to their own lack of a plan .
trump followed through on his threat in january to withdraw the united states from the 2015 iran nuclear deal – formally known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – if congress didn ’ t “ fix ” it .
specifically , he wanted the ability to re impose sanctions on iran , which he did earlier this month .
sanctions , trump has long maintained , would force iran to negotiate . that has not happened and is unlikely to happen .
to push iran toward the negotiating table , and , more importantly , assert his authority and save face , trump might be tempted to heigh ten tensions , if not provoke iran into a confrontation .
and here , eng el might be forced to play along .
eng el has said that iran is the “ most dangerous player ” in the middle east , and he was a vocal opponent of the jcpoa .
though he supported the deal after it was signed and opposed withdrawing from it , trump could use eng el ’ s own position on iran to push him to adopt a more aggressive posture or risk appearing “ weak ” on national security .
but the payoff is likely to be a foreign-policy crisis that produces no meaningful progress toward a new nuclear deal and plenty of blame to go around .
the democrats also provide trump an out on north korea .
back in june , eng el introduced the north korea nuclear baseline act , which would require the white house to report on the status of north korea ’ s nuclear program and provide a “ baseline ” of progress for continued talks .
eng el has already said he will call a hearing on the talks .
whatever is said in that hearing could provide north korean leader kim jong-un with a ready excuse to rene ge on his already- vague denuclearization agreement with trump .
the us president , kim could argue , can no longer be trusted with a hostile congress at his back .
perhaps in anticipation of a democrati c -led house and a subsequent democratic pil e- on regarding russia , trump withdrew the us from the intermedi ate- range nuclear forces treaty ( in f ) in october , citing russian violations .
signed in 1987 by ronald reagan and soviet premier mikhail gorbachev , the in f required both the us and russia to eliminate gr oun d- launched ballistic and cru ise missiles . the us withdrawal from it signals the start of a new arms race .
trump has already called for an increase in defense spending and the launch of a “ space force ” .
as democrats focus on russian interference in the 2016 us elections , trump ’ s ties to russia , and the details of trump ’ s clos ed- door conversation with russian president vladimir putin in helsinki in july , they will be faced with the prospect of signing off on increased defense spending or else appearing di thering and hypocritical on russia .
much of the world breath ed a sig h of relief at the democrats ’ recapture of the house , because it signaled a vulnerability in trump ’ s aggressively anti- liberal “ america first ” approach to the world order .
but democrats should resist the urge to try correcting trump ’ s perceived wrong s .
the house has just enough power to get into foreign-policy trouble and not enough to get out of it or to adopt and implement a coherent strategy .
the democrats ’ best bet is to let trump take the lead on global affairs , however un sav ory , and actively work to check and balance his actions .
oversight and the power of the pur se will be their most powerful tools .
in the end , trump will need house democrats for money , sanctions , or approval of trade agreements .
if they play their cards right , he will have to deal them in . if they don ’ t , they will find that trump still holds a much stronger hand .
american foreign policy after the mid-term elections
new york – few americans cast their ballot in the recent mid-term elections on the basis of foreign policy .
while it may be difficult for people around the world to comprehend this , given the global reach of the united states , it is an undeniable fact .
most americans are , after all , preoccupied with the us economy ’ s sluggish growth and persistent high unemployment .
the world ’ s challenges seem far removed from their day-to-day lives .
most americans do not feel the sacrifices associated with the large troop presence and ongoing conflicts in afghanistan and iraq .
but the fact that foreign policy did not mater ially affect the november elections does not mean that the results will not affect us foreign policy .
they will , but in ways that are inconsistent and even surprising .
one relationship sure to be influenced by republican gains will be that between the us and russia .
quick or easy senate approval of the new start arms-control treaty is highly unlikely , given stated concerns about verification and the protection of us missile-defense programs ; instead , we can expect delays and , possibly , attempts to amend what the two governments already agreed upon .
congress may also prove less willing to remove hurdles to russia ’ s admission to the world trade organization , given what is widely judged to be its leaders ’ anti-democratic behavior .
china , too , will feel the results of the new balance in congress .
pressure was already growing to introduce trade sanctions in response to china ’ s refusal to allow its currency to rise to a natural level against the dollar .
such pressure will likely grow , given concerns over chinese behavior both at home and abroad .
moreover , congress will resist rolling back any of the long-standing economic sanctions against cuba .
president barack obama has the authority to take some small steps on his own to normalize ties , but substantial change to us policy requires congress to act – and congress wants to see fundamental change in cuba before it does so .
there will be other consequences stemming from the election .
what little chance there was of the us backing any global plan to limit or tax carbon emissions has disappeared .
improvement in us performance on climate change will have to come from innovation and increased energy efficiency .
one can anticipate the republicans , now in control of the house of representatives , exploiting their ability to convene hearings to question and review foreign policy .
depending on how this power is used ( or abused ) , it can be beneficial ( exercising needed oversight and increasing the transparency of policy and policy- making ) or destructive ( if , for example , hearings de generate into politically motivated attacks on administration officials and policies ) .
in many other areas , continuity can be expected to trump change .
this comes as little surprise , as america ’ s constitution and political system deleg ate most of the initiative on foreign policy and defense to the president .
yes , congress must declare war , approve spending , agree to most senior appointments , and ( in the case of the senate ) ratify treaties , but the president has enormous l ati tude when it comes to carrying out diplomacy and using military force in situations other than war , which tend to be most situations .
one area of probable continuity is the middle east , where obama will continue to try to broker a deal between israelis and palestinians and press iran not to develop nuclear weapons .
( republicans , however will argue for putting less pressure on israel to compromise and more pressure on iran . ) but he can expect considerable backing from republicans if he wants to maintain a sizeable us military presence in afghanistan beyond this july , or a modest military presence in iraq beyond the end of 2011 .
questions abound when it comes to foreign economic policy , however .
three completed trade agreements ( with south korea , panama , and colombia ) have been langu ishing for years , mostly because of deep opposition to free trade from labor unions and the democratic party .
republicans have historically been more supportive of such bilateral free-trade agreements .
but will the new generation of republicans continue this tradition ?
there is a fair chance that one or more of these bilateral accords will be approved ( in part because the obama administration seems finally to have recognized that trade can generate good jobs ) , but it is far less certain that the president will gain the authority needed to negotiate a new global trade deal .
an even bigger question mark hover s over what might be the greatest national security concern of all : the federal budget deficit .
failure to address the deficit ( and the mounting debt ) will create pressures to reduce what the us spends on foreign aid , intelligence , and defense – although republicans are more likely than democrats to protect such spending ( except for foreign aid ) .
mounting debt also leaves the us vulnerable to the decisions of those who lend it money – or to the v ag aries of the market .
but averting such a crisis requires that the white house and congress , democrats and republicans , agree on a plan for moving the us budget toward balance .
alas , the election makes such agreement more distant than ever .
america ’ s global balancing act
with russia ’ s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea , the disintegration of iraq ’ s and syria ’ s borders , and increasing chinese assertiveness in the south and east china seas , the post-cold war era appears to have ended in 2014 .
is that true ?
the post-cold war era was not really an “ era , ” but rather a gradual transition from a bilateral cold war to a more complex international order that still involves , in the final analysis , two world powers .
in brief , the decisive axis of the new order increasingly involves the united states and the people ’ s republic of china .
the sino-american competition involves two significant realities that distinguish it from the cold war : neither party is excessively ideological in its orientation ; and both parties recognize that they really need mutual accommodation .
america ’ s supposed “ pivot to asia ” took a back seat in 2014 to the crises in ukraine and the middle east .
to what extent has uncertainty about the us commitment in asia stoked tension between china and america ’ s asian allies ?
i disagree with the premis es of the question .
i do think america has made it quite clear that it is in the interest both of america and china to avoid situations in which they will be pushed toward a collision .
the recent indications of some initial dialogue between china and india , and between china and japan , suggest that china also re alizes that escalating old grievances is not in its interest .
the more serious problem with the “ pivot to asia ” was its actual wor ding , which implied a military posture designed to “ contain ” or “ isolate ” china .
the chinese have come to realize more clearly that we were not deliberately attempting to isolate them , but that we had a stake in the avoidance of coll is ions in the far east that could produce a wider spillover .
xi jinping has used his war on corruption to concentrate more power in his hands than any chinese leader since deng xiaoping , 30 years ago .
how do you see xi ’ s presidency evolving ?
power in china is somewhat informally defined , and its limits are set more by political realities than by constitutional arrangements .
that makes it difficult to say whether xi ’ s power is greater than any chinese leader ’ s since deng .
he certainly has an author itative personality and without doubt is more active on the international scene than some of his predecessors .
he has also been very decisive in attacking the growing corruption that has become a major source of internal malaise , reaching even the highest levels of government .
in that respect , it may be argued that his power is more wide-ranging than that of his predecessors , but in fairness it must also be noted that the patterns of corruption that his predecessors faced were not as acute and widespread as they have become in recent years .
at the same time , the increasing emphasis in party journals on the proposition that china ’ s armed forces must be viewed as servants of the communist party , and not simply of the nation , seems to suggest concern that the military may be developing its own view of chinese domestic affairs , in addition to proclaiming with increasing assertiveness its responsibility for national security .
the party elite , quite understandably , does not find this reassuring .
can russian president vladimir putin ’ s regime withstand a prolonged period of low energy prices and western sanctions ?
what risks do you see emerging should russia ’ s economy continue to decline , with putin increasingly unable to reward his political base ?
there is , of course , a danger that at some point putin may choose to l ash out and create a truly massive international crisis , and perhaps precipitate some new form of direct east - west warfare .
but to say that , one must also assume that to some extent he himself is unbalanced and has shifted from a kind of guer illa warfare against the west , always with some possibility of retreat , to all-out combat .
the outcome of that would be inherently unpredictable , but probably in any case very destructive for russian wellbeing .
but that depends in turn on the west ’ s firm ness in supporting ukraine ’ s efforts to stabilize itself .
following the withdrawal of us troops from afghanistan and iraq , much of the world now perce ives the us as being in a period of “ retreat , ” similar to the post- vietnam war era .
is the us embracing a form of neo- isolationism ?
or will america ’ s apparent inward turn be as brief as it was following vietnam ?
i do not believe that the us is in a “ period of retreat . ”
the fact of the matter is that the redistribution of global power has produced a situation in which the us is no longer the sole hegemon .
the us has to acknowledge the fact that the world is now much more complex .
the spread of conflict throughout the middle east is currently precip itated more by the rise of religious sectarianism than by american interventi onism .
in these volatile circumstances , greater attention must be given to the national interests of countries such as turkey , iran , saudi arabia , egypt , and israel .
by the same token , the interests of any one of them must not be allowed to become the total interest of the us .
what may surprise the world most in 2015 ?
perhaps the gradual re appearance in russia of a more politically assertive liberal middle class .
that middle class was beginning to play a more significant role in shaping domestic and international russian policy under dmitri medvedev .
with putin ’ s return to power and his recent adventur ism , it has been pushed aside by deliberately awak ened and intens ely stimulated national chauvinism .
w aving a chauv inist banner , however , may not be the best solution for dealing with international problems , especially if the west is intelligent and united . the russian middle class , quite naturally , wishes to live in a society like that of western europe .
a russia that gradually begins to gravit ate toward the west will also be a russia that ceas es to disrupt the international system .
america ’ s enemy within
new york – barring any unexpected new revelations , there is not much to be learned from the t sar na ev brothers , better known as “ the boston bombers . ”
we can di g into their family histories in str if e- torn d ag est an , or examine , once again , the lethal appeal of islamist radicalism .
but i doubt that this would be enligh tening .
the el der brother , t amer lan , who died in a gun battle with the police , appears to fit perfectly the profile of what the german writer h ans magn us en z ens berger calls “ the radical loser . ”
and his younger brother , d z ho kh ar , recovering from gun shot wounds in a boston hospital while waiting to be put on trial for his life , seems to have been a pathetic follow er who acted less out of deep conviction than out of frater nal love .
the radical loser is the kind of young man who feels victim ized by an un feeling , un caring world .
that sour sense of rejection , felt by many confused you ths , turns for some into a fierce desire for vengeance .
like sam son in the temple of gaza , he wishes to destroy himself in a public act of violence , taking as many people as possible with him .
anything can trigger this final act : a lo ver ’ s rejection , a job application denied .
in the case of t amer lan , a talented box er , he was denied the chance to become a champion because he was not yet a united states citizen .
radical islamism offered him a ready- made cause to die for .
more interesting , and in a way far more disturbing , has been the reaction in the us to the boston bombings , which killed three people and injured 2 64 .
public transport was halted , trains to and from the city were stopped , shops and business closed , and citizens were told to stay home .
until the surviving bom ber was found , boston was reduced to a ghost town .
if two troubled young men with hom em ade bombs co b bled together from fertilizer and pressure coo kers can have this effect on a major american city , one can imagine how tempting their example must now be to other radical losers , not to mention radical groups .
it shows how vulnerable a modern city can be when its leaders lose their nerve .
the authorities ’ overblown reaction – and that of much of the press – was all the od der for having occurred just as the us senate was voting down a bill that would have made it harder for known killers and mentally disturbed people to buy guns , or for private individuals to acquire weapons normally used only in warfare .
it seems as though americans can tolerate a society in which schoolchildren and other inno cents are regularly murdered by der anged men with weapons bought on the open market , but erupt in collective hyster ia when the killings are committed by people labeled as “ terrorists . ”
this may reflect what people are accustomed to .
the spanish had grown so in ured to acts of violence from bas que separatists that the murder of 19 1 people in madrid by islamist extremists in 2004 was met with remarkable s ang - fro id . when 52 people were killed in a suicide bombing on the london underground the following year , the british , too , reacted with relative calm , having lived through years of irish terrorist violence in the 1970 ’ s .
like the spanish , they were used to it .
americans , despite the attacks of september 11 , 2001 , are not .
worse than that , a number of republican senators , including such lum in aries as john mccain , called for str ipping d z ho kh ar t sar na ev , who is a us citizen , of his legal rights and placing him before a military tribunal as an “ enemy combat ant , ” as though the 19 - year-old college student were a soldier in a war against america .
exaggerated fear of outside enemies has always been part of the american political landscape .
the “ nation of immigrants ” was traditionally regarded as a refuge from danger .
the evil outside world should not be able to touch the land of the free .
when it does – pearl harbor , september 2001 – all hell breaks loose .
another factor may be the need for a common enemy in a country whose citizens come from so many different cultures and traditions .
bes i eged by communists or islamists , people feel a sense of belonging .
defense of the nation against dangerous outsiders – and their domestic agents , whether real or imagined – provides a powerful bond .
such bonds can be useful , even necessary , in times of war .
but the politics of fear poses a danger to the us itself .
the aim of political terrorist groups , such as al qaeda , is to provoke retaliation and maximize publicity for their cause .
as common criminals , such groups ’ members would not achieve this goal .
but by claiming to be soldiers at war with the world ’ s biggest military power , they gain sympathy , as well as recruits , among the radical losers and the disaffected .
former president george w. bush once explained terrorism as the expression of hatred for american freedom .
but when terrorism results in torture of prisoners , ever more police surveillance , and official threats to us citizens ’ legal rights – or , for that matter , when a crime committed by two young immigrants causes an entire city to be shut down – americans ’ government is harming their freedom more than any terrorist could ever hope to do .
american hegemony or american primacy ?
cambridge – no country in modern history has possessed as much global military power as the united states .
yet some analysts now argue that the us is following in the footsteps of the united kingdom , the last global hegemon to decline .
this historical analogy , though increasingly popular , is misleading .
to be sure , it maintained a navy equal in size to the next two fle ets combined , and its empire , on which the sun never set , ruled over a quarter of humankind .
but there were major differences in the relative power resources of imperial britain and contemporary america .
by the outbreak of world war i , britain ranked only fourth among the great powers in terms of military personnel , fourth in terms of gdp , and third in military spending .
the british empire was ruled in large part through reliance on local troops .
of the 8. 6 million british forces in wwi , nearly a third came from the overseas empire .
that made it increasingly difficult for the government in london to declare war on behalf of the empire when nationalist sentiments began to intensify .
by world war ii , protecting the empire had become more of a burden than an asset .
the fact that the uk was situ ated so close to powers like germany and russia made matters even more challenging .
for all the loose talk of an “ american empire , ” the fact is that the us does not have colonies that it must administer , and thus has more freedom to maneuver than the uk did .
and , surrounded by un threatening countries and two oceans , it finds it far easier to protect itself .
that brings us to another problem with the global hegemon analogy : the confusion over what “ hegemony ” actually means .
some observers confl ate the concept with imperialism ; but the us is clear evidence that a hegemon does not have to have a formal empire .
others define hegemony as the ability to set the rules of the international system ; but precisely how much influence over this process a hegemon must have , relative to other powers , remains unclear .
still others consider hegemony to be synonymous with control of the most power resources .
but , by this definition , nineteenth-century britain – which at the height of its power in 18 70 ranked third ( behind the us and russia ) in gdp and third ( behind russia and france ) in military expenditures – could not be considered hegemonic , despite its naval dominance .
similarly , those who speak of american hegemony after 1945 fail to note that the soviet union balanced us military power for more than four decades .
though the us had disproportionate economic clout , its room for political and military maneuver was constrained by soviet power .
some analysts describe the post-1945 period as a us-led hierarchical order with liberal characteristics , in which the us provided public goods while operating within a loose system of multilateral rules and institutions that gave weaker states a say .
they point out that it may be rational for many countries to preserve this institutional framework , even if american power resources decline .
in this sense , the us-led international order could out live america ’ s primacy in power resources , though many others argue that the emergence of new powers port ends this order ’ s demise .
but , when it comes to the era of supposed us hegemony , there has always been a lot of fiction mixed in with the facts .
it was less a global order than a group of like-minded countries , largely in the americas and western europe , which comprised less than half of the world .
and its effects on non- members – including significant powers like china , india , indonesia , and the soviet bloc – were not always benign .
given this , the us position in the world could more accurately be called a “ half- hegemony . ”
of course , america did maintain economic dominance after 1945 : the devastation of wwii in so many countries meant that the us produced nearly half of global gdp . that position lasted until 1970 , when the us share of global gdp fell to its pre- war level of one-quarter .
but , from a political or military standpoint , the world was bipolar , with the soviet union balancing america ’ s power .
indeed , during this period , the us often could not defend its interests : the soviet union acquired nuclear weapons ; communist take over s occurred in china , cuba , and half of vietnam ; the korean war ended in a stalemate ; and revolts in hungary and czechoslovakia were repressed .
against this background , “ primacy ” seems like a more accurate description of a country ’ s disproportionate ( and measurable ) share of all three kinds of power resources : military , economic , and soft .
the question now is whether the era of us primacy is coming to an end .
the rise of transnational forces and non-state actors , not to mention emerging powers like china , suggests that there are big changes on the horizon .
but there is still reason to believe that , at least in the first half of this century , the us will retain its primacy in power resources and continue to play the central role in the global balance of power .
in short , while the era of us primacy is not over , it is set to change in important ways .
whether or not these changes will bolster global security and prosperity remains to be seen .
what i tell my non- american friends
cambridge – i frequently travel overseas , and invariably my foreign friends ask , with varying degrees of be wil der ment : what in the world is going on in your country ?
here is what i say .
first , do not mis interpret the 2016 election .
contrary to some commentary , the american political system has not been swept away by a wave of populism .
true , we have a long history of rebel ling against elites .
donald trump tapped into a tradition associated with leaders like andrew jackson and william j en nings br yan in the nineteenth century and hu ey long and george w all ace in the twentieth century .
and yet trump lost the popular vote by nearly three million .
he won the election by appealing to populist resentment in three rust belt states – michigan , pennsylvania , and wis con sin – that had previously voted democratic .
if a hundred thousand votes had been cast differently in those states , trump would have lost the electoral college and the presidency .
that said , trump ’ s victory points to a real problem of growing social and regional inequality in the united states .
j . d . v ance ’ s recent best- selling book hill bil ly eleg y comp ell ingly describes the vast difference between california and ap pal ach ia .
research by the princeton economists anne case and ang us de aton shows that the demographic trends among lower-income whites without a college degree are worse than those for african-americans , who historically anchored the lower extremes of inequality .
in 1999 , mortality rates among whites with no college were around 30 % lower than those of african-americans ; by 2015 , they were 30 % higher .
moreover , manufacturing employment , once a prime source of high- paying jobs for working-class whites , has fallen sharply over the last generation , to just 12 % of the workforce .
these previously democratic voters were attracted by trump ’ s promises to shake things up and bring back manufacturing jobs .
ironically , trump ’ s efforts to repeal president barack obama ’ s health-care legislation would make their lives worse .
the second thing i tell my foreign friends is not to underestimate trump ’ s communications skills .
many are off ended by his tweet storms and outrageous disregard for facts .
but trump is a veteran of reality television , where he learned that the key to success is to monopol ize viewers ’ attention , and that the way to do that is with extreme statements , not careful regard for the truth .
twitter helps him to set the agenda and distract his critics .
what off ends commentators in the media and academia does not bother his supporters .
but as he turns from his permanent self- centered campaigning to trying to govern , twitter becomes a two- ed ged sword that de ters needed allies .
third , i tell my friends not to expect normal behavior .
normally , a president who loses the popular vote moves to the political center to attract additional support .
trump , by contrasts , pro claims that he won the popular vote and , acting as though he really did , appeals to his base voters .
while trump has made solid centrist appointments to the departments of defense , state , and homeland security , his pic ks for the environmental protection agency and the department of health and human services are from the extremes of the republican party .
his white house staff is divided between pragm ati sts and ideologues , and he cat ers to both .
fourth , no one should underestimate us institutions .
sometimes my friends talk as though the sky is falling and ask if trump is as dangerous a narciss ist as mussolini .
i tell them not to panic .
the us , for all its problems , is not italy in 19 22 .
our national political elites are often polarized ; but so were america ’ s founders .
in designing the us constitution , the founders ’ goal was not to ensure harmonious government , but to constrain political power with a system of checks and balances that made it difficult to exercise .
the joke goes that the founders created a political system that made it impossible for king george to rule over us – or for anyone to ever do so .
inefficiency was placed in the service of liberty .
it is still early in the trump presidency , and we can not be sure what might happen after , say , a major terrorist attack .
so far , however , the courts , the congress , and the states have checked and balanced the administration , as mad ison intended .
and the permanent civil servants in the executive departments add ball ast .
finally , my friends ask what all of this means for american foreign policy and the liberal international order led by the us since 1945 .
frankly , i don ’ t know , but i worry less about the rise of china than the rise of trump .
while american leaders , including obama , have complained about free rid ers , the us has long taken the lead in providing key global public goods : security , a stable international reserve currency , relatively open markets , and stewardship of the earth ’ s commons .
despite the us-led international order ’ s problems , the world has prosper ed and poverty has been reduced under it .
but one can not be sure it will continue .
the us will need to cooperate with china , europe , japan , and others to manage transnational problems .
during the 2016 campaign , trump was the first major party candidate in 70 years to call the american alliance system into question .
since taking office in january , statements by trump and his appointees suggest that it is likely to persist .
american hard and soft power , after all , stems largely from the fact that the us has 60 allies ( while china has only a few ) .
but the stability of the multilateral institutions that help manage the world economy and global commons is more uncertain .
trump ’ s budget director speaks of a hard- power budget , with funds cut from the state department and the united nations system .
other officials advocate replacing multilateral trade deals with “ fair and balanced ” bilateral arrangements .
and trump is repudi ating obama ’ s efforts to address climate change .
i tell my friends i wish i could reassure them on these issues .
but i can not .
denver – to watch the debate play out in america ’ s news media , it would seem that the opposite of “ america first ” is american interventi onism : a chronic penchant for le aping , to no apparent end , into wars of choice and demonstrating america ’ s un rival ed military power .
but interventi onism is not the same thing as internationalism .
confl ating the two collapses the distinction between quick and decisive use of force and thoughtful engagement with the world and its problems .
in america ’ s “ get ’ er done ” transactional wel t ans chau ung , international disputes tend to be viewed as military challenges that are merely mas qu er ading as political issues .
in fact , they are usually the opposite , which is why the world ’ s most complex conflicts are rarely resolved by intervention .
geopolitical conflicts have long , sor did histories , and violence is more often a symptom of their intrac tability than an inherent trait .
they often have something to do with identity , and with claims of collective ownership of the land beneath the feet of a particular “ nation . ”
the basis of political membership is more often ethnic than civil , which is contrary to americans ’ understanding of nation hood .
moreover , contemporary problems can be the products of flawed arrangements that were made decades or even centuries ago .
two examples that immediately come to mind are the 19 16 sy kes- picot agreement between britain and france , which car ved up the middle east , and the 1919 treaty of ver sa illes , which established national borders in the balkans .
in both cases , creating new states may have seemed like a straightforward solution , but doing so turned out to be a prescription for more war .
for the united states , international conflicts are often an occasion to demonstrate “ t oug hn ess ” and “ resolve . ”
the us airstrikes in bosnia were meant to lend momentum to a political process that already had the support of the european union and russia .
the air campaign was a last resort , an effort to punish those who did not support the peace process .
for many american pundits and politicians , then , the lesson of bosnia was merely that the bad gu ys should have been bombed sooner .
few took the opportunity to study the region ’ s complex history so that judic ious inter- entity boundaries could be drawn up .
if they had , the final arrangement might have done more to preserve external borders and nurture a constitutional structure that would allow the new state to be integrated into the european map .
kosovo , too , supplied more historical complexity than many were willing to grapple with .
on- the- ground diplomacy to achieve sovereign autonomy for kosovo while respecting serbs ’ emotional connection to it was der ided .
the implication was that military means should be the first – rather than the last – option for securing kosovo ’ s independence .
never mind that many european countries objected to the creation of an independent state , and had called for multilateral diplomacy to be attempted before any discussion of air strikes .
interventi onism , with internationalism as an after thought , continued after the turn of the century , but on a much bigger stage .
after the attacks of september 11 , 2001 , the us led an invasion and subsequent occupation of afghanistan to root out al-qaeda .
but after 17 years with troops on the ground in that country , americans have lost patience , with many embracing us president donald trump ’ s “ america first ” isolationism .
in iraq , where the connection to terrorism was more dubious , the us mounted a major military effort with goals that were per ple x ing and shifting , insofar as they were ever clearly articulated at all .
american interventi onism has often been accompanied by criticism of friends and allies , who are depicted as weak and vac ill ating in the face of global challenges such as russian president vladimir putin ’ s annexation of crimea or china ’ s increasing assertiveness in the south china sea .
when things went wrong in afghanistan and iraq , the us blamed those countries ’ political leaders , denouncing them as corrupt and deser ving of regime change .
the europeans , too , were denounced , not just for fec k lessness in the face of evil , but for living fat and happy lives without should ering their proper burden .
with these narratives deeply et ched into american public consciousness , it is no wonder that trump ’ s dy stop ian vision has prevailed over internationalism , which has become a by word for the endless use of force and con des cen sion toward allies .
but those who claim to support it could hasten its revival by acting in accordance with its original meaning .
traditional inter nationalists show respect for the opinions of others , and a willingness to accept – and even champion – multilateral structures .
what internationalism needs now is a renewed american commitment to cooperation , even when other governments require more time to secure a mandate for action from their respective constituencies .
at the end of the day , us international leadership must rest on american values , and on a broad perception of adherence to the un ali enable principles underlying liberal democracy .
in other words , america must lead by example .
its failure to do so in recent times – not least on the refugee issue – has undermined the influence on which its power ultimately rests .
rene wing american leadership
madrid – december always provides an opportunity to pause and reflect on what was and what will be .
this year , one of the conclusions that such reflection yields is that the united states remains firmly at the center of the liberal world order .
another is that the us needs to do more to lead in the way that its international standing demands .
doubts about america ’ s continued global leadership have been proliferating for years .
but , though the much- discussed multi-polar world order may well be in the cards , the reality is that , for now , efforts to address global challenges – from climate change to conflict in the middle east – demand us engagement .
unfortunately , the narrative of american decline has gained so much traction in recent years that even us officials seem to have started to believe it , pursuing weak and piecemeal policies ( or , in some cases , doing nothing at all ) .
president barack obama ’ s restrained foreign-policy approach appears to be fueling , not reducing , global instability .
the reasons for this lack of strong action are disputed .
some blame obama ’ s own fears about repeating his predecessors ’ mistakes ; others blame a hostile congress for tying his hands .
in fact , both factors may be at work .
it may well be true that obama would rather exercise caution – even when bold action is called for – than act impul sively and potentially cause more damage .
but the negative impact of an obstruc tion ist , highly partisan us congress should not be underestimated .
for example , by blocking reforms to international monetary fund governance that were agreed in 2010 , congress has damaged , perhaps irre par ably , the legitimacy and relevance of the bretton woods institutions .
likewise , by refusing to ratify the united nations convention on the law of the sea , the us congress has undermined america ’ s credibility as it attempts to reaffirm international law in the south china sea , where china is acting with increasing aud acity .
and , by opposing the inclusion of legally binding climate commitments , it weakened the global climate agreement that was reached this month in paris , leaving compliance and implementation uncertain .
stalemate has become the name of the game in us politics in recent years .
that is why next year ’ s presidential election is so crucial .
it offers an opportunity for a fresh start , a new approach that produces the type of policy actions that the world needs .
the key is engagement – among branches of the us government , between the us government and the public , and between the us and the rest of the world .
for starters , to avoid the kind of obstruc tion ism that prevailed in the last eight years , the next president must engage congress directly and actively .
and , in fact , two of the obama administration ’ s recent wins – the passage of so-called trade promotion authority ( fast- track negotiating authority to conclude the trans-pacific partnership ) and the re authorization of the small but vital export- import bank – were the result of dedicated outreach , education , and , yes , ca j oling of lawmakers .
the iran nuclear agreement , one of obama ’ s hallmark achievements , involved similar efforts to engage congress , from protracted trips to capit ol hill by obama administration officials to a creative approach that allowed legislators to display their dis pleasure for the deal , without blocking its progress .
america ’ s next president must also improve engagement with citizens , whose widespread dis affection constr ains – or allows – us leaders to pursue a weak foreign policy .
like many europeans today , most americans do not seem to understand – or care to understand – that the crumbling of the liberal world order would have dire consequences for all of them .
it was not always this way .
immediately after world war ii , the memory of war , together with the enduring threat posed by the soviet union , made plain the importance of building and maintaining a liberal world order .
today , though the need for such an order is just as great , the argument is not nearly as compreh ensible or emotionally powerful .
discussion of rules and institutions comes across as bloo dless .
it is up to political leaders – and especially the president – to figure out how to make a compelling case about what is at stake .
only this approach can secure the mandate from the public that the next us president will need to engage effectively with other world leaders .
and make no mistake : such engagement is indispensable .
while the us must play an integral role in addressing global challenges , from ending the syrian civil war to following through on the promises of the paris climate agreement , it can not do it alone .
real progress will demand real cooperation .
in the second half of the twentieth century , the us showed that committed leadership could help to ensure widespread stability and prosperity .
in the twenty-first century , it has showed how devastating a lack of such leadership can be .
finger pointing will not fix anything .
only by pursuing genuine , deep , and sustained engagement , both at home and abroad , can the next administration ensure that the coming years will be better than the last .
american pie in the sky
new york – while the risk of a disorderly crisis in the eurozone is well recognized , a more sangu ine view of the united states has prevailed .
for the last three years , the consensus has been that the us economy was on the verge of a robust and self- sustaining recovery that would restore above- potential growth .
that turned out to be wrong , as a painful process of balance-sheet deleveraging – reflecting excessive private-sector debt , and then its car ry over to the public sector – implies that the recovery will remain , at best , below- trend for many years to come .
even this year , the consensus got it wrong , expecting a recovery to above- trend annual gdp growth – faster than 3 % .
but the first- half growth rate looks set to come in closer to 1.5 % at best , even below 2011 ’ s dismal 1.7 % .
and now , after getting the first half of 2012 wrong , many are repeating the fair y tale that a combination of lower oil prices , rising auto sales , recovering house prices , and a resurgence of us manufacturing will boost growth in the second half of the year and fuel above- potential growth by 2013 .
the reality is the opposite : for several reasons , growth will slow further in the second half of 2012 and be even lower in 2013 – close to stall speed .
first , growth in the second quarter has deceler ated from a mediocre 1.8 % in jan u ary- march , as job creation – averaging 7 0,000 a month – fell sharply .
second , expectations of the “ fiscal cliff ” – automatic tax increases and spending cuts set for the end of this year – will keep spending and growth lower through the second half of 2012 .
so will uncertainty about who will be president in 2013 ; about tax rates and spending levels ; about the threat of another government shutdown over the debt ceiling ; and about the risk of another sovereign rating downgrade should political gridlock continue to block a plan for medium-term fiscal consolidation .
in such conditions , most firms and consumers will be cautious about spending – an option value of waiting – thus further weakening the economy .
third , the fiscal cliff would amount to a 4.5 % -of-gdp drag on growth in 2013 if all tax cuts and transfer payments were allowed to expire and draconian spending cuts were triggered .
of course , the drag will be much smaller , as tax increases and spending cuts will be much mil der .
fourth , private consumption growth in the last few quarters does not reflect growth in real wages ( which are actually falling ) .
rather , growth in disposable income ( and thus in consumption ) has been sustained since last year by another $ 1.4 trillion in tax cuts and extended transfer payments , implying another $ 1.4 trillion of public debt .
unlike the eurozone and the united kingdom , where a double-dip recession is already under way , owing to front-loaded fiscal austerity , the us has prevented some household deleveraging through even more public-sector rele ver aging – that is , by stealing some growth from the future .
in 2013 , as transfer payments are phased out , however gradually , and as some tax cuts are allowed to expire , disposable income growth and consumption growth will slow .
the us will then face not only the direct effects of a fiscal drag , but also its indirect effect on private spending .
fifth , four external forces will further impede us growth : a worsening eurozone crisis ; an increasingly hard landing for china ; a generalized slowdown of emerging-market economies , owing to cyclical factors ( weak advanced-country growth ) and structural causes ( a state- capitalist model that reduces potential growth ) ; and the risk of higher oil prices in 2013 as negotiations and sanctions fail to convince iran to abandon its nuclear program .
policy responses will have very limited effect in stemming the us economy ’ s deceler ation toward stall speed : even with only a mild fiscal drag on growth , the us dollar is likely to strengthen as the eurozone crisis weakens the euro and as global risk aversion returns .
the us federal reserve will carry out more quantitative easing this year , but it will be ineffective : long-term interest rates are already very low , and lowering them further would not boost spending .
indeed , the credit channel is frozen and velocity has collapsed , with banks ho arding increases in base money in the form of excess reserves .
moreover , the dollar is unlikely to weaken as other countries also carry out quantitative easing .
similarly , the gravity of weaker growth will most likely overcome the le vit ational effect on equity prices from more quantitative easing , particularly given that equity valuations today are not as depressed as they were in 2009 or 2010 .
indeed , growth in earnings and profits is now running out of steam , as the effect of weak demand on top- line revenues takes a toll on bottom - line margins and profitability .
a significant equity- price correction could , in fact , be the force that in 2013 ti ps the us economy into outright contraction .
and if the us ( still the world ’ s largest economy ) starts to s ne eze again , the rest of the world – its immunity already weakened by europe ’ s malaise and emerging countries ’ slowdown – will catch pneumonia .
an american political tragedy
berlin – us president donald trump ’ s nearly eight months in office have been characterized by a series of disturbing political developments .
but trump is not entirely to blame .
his presidency is just the latest act in a long- running political tragedy .
from a foreign-policy perspective , the problem began in the 1990s , when the united states squandered the post-cold war peace dividend .
with regard to domestic policy , the failures began even earlier : from re ag anom ics in the 1980s to obamacare in the 201 0s , major policies have often over promised and under performed , while failing to address underlying problems .
of course , us politicians are rarely short on lofty rhetoric – from ronald reagan ’ s “ morning in america ” campaign to barack obama ’ s “ yes , we can ” slogan to donald trump ’ s “ america first ” refrain .
and , beginning with john f. kennedy , presidents have lik ened the us to a “ city upon a hill ” – an example to the rest of the world .
yet it is hard to remember the last time the us produced a policy that could serve as a model for others to emulate .
the country has not had a pro- active , forward-looking government since the 1960s .
since the 1990s , it has not invested sufficiently in human capital to meet the fast- changing economy ’ s shifting skill requirements ; undertaken no effective education , environmental , or labor-market reforms ; and launched no new urban initiatives or fu ture- pro of ing infrastructure policies .
the list goes on .
the reason is simple : americans ’ longstanding suspicion of “ big government ” morphed into a kind of political self- hatred , with policymakers and citizens alike led to believe that government is at its best when it does not govern .
and , as the us government has re treated from society , the us has re treated from the rest of the world .
these trends have culminated in trump , whose most popular policies focus on destruction , rather than creation .
a us- centered foreign policy focused not on reshaping america ’ s role in the world , but on reducing it .
from the affordable care act ( obamacare ) to the deferred action for childhood arrivals ( d aca ) policy , trump likes to reverse past policies , without devising anything to replace them .
american conservatives have so far failed to read trump ’ s intentions accurately .
in july , robert w. mer ry wrote that trump had “ yet to score anything approaching a serious legislative victory – or to demonstrate any serious political momentum . ”
but the truth is that trump ’ s agenda has plenty of momentum ; it is just focused on demol ishing obama ’ s legacy .
as the international law expert richard fal k has argued , it is trump ’ s “ demagog u ery ” that enables this approach , as it “ blin ds adherents to their true material self- interests and mis identifies their real social enemies . ”
trump ’ s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , including commitments to truth and evidence , ” has been accompanied by an unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ”
the result of trump ’ s approach is that america ’ s existing problems are worsening and huge opportunities are being missed .
but what can stop dem ons already unleashed ?
and , even if they are stopped , can the damage they have already wrought be reversed ?
there was some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn clearly the white supre mac ist demonstrators in char lo tt es ville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august ended with the murder of a counter- protest er .
but it has done little to weaken trump ’ s destructive momentum : just a few weeks later , trump announced his plan to end d aca , a policy that protected from de portation some 800,000 young immigrants who were brought to the us as children .
beyond lam enting the astonishing depths to which a great political culture and system can fall , what can be done ?
one obvious option , which democrats largely seem to be taking , is to reject trump and everything his administration stands for .
but that risks ensuring the persistence of the dysfunctional dynamics that brought the us to this point .
another option , however un appealing at first glance , is to accept the trump administration .
the result of such a choice may well be the worsening of domestic problems and the weakening of checks and balances .
but it is also possible that checks and balances will hold until the next election , enabling america ’ s existing political parties to rebuild and new parties to emerge .
the result , one hopes , would be a much-needed political realignment – indeed , a political renaissance .
to be sure , such a shift would take time – time that , depending on how long trump remains in office , parties may not have .
republicans may be politically handic apped for years , as they are forced to reckon with the fa us tian bargain they struck for the sake of political power .
democrats , for their part , face a broad leadership vacuum and a lack of political vision , owing to their now- intern alized fear of being labeled “ big sp enders . ”
and , as it stands , no third parties or candidates provide reasonable alternatives .
nonetheless , there are encouraging signs that some republicans and democrats are thinking outside the party box .
more must follow suit , recognizing that real igning the existing party system may be the only way to break the stalemate of us politics and , potentially , reverse decades of dangerous democratic under performance .
the next act in america ’ s political drama , following the 2018 congressional midterm election , could be marked by a kind of reckoning , with the 2020 presidential campaign accompanied by civic breakdown and the escalation of violent confrontation that has ling ered beneath the surface for years .
to re write the plot before that scenario plays out requires re shu ff ling and revit alizing us politics , so that , in the words of the poet seam us he an ey , “ hope and history rhy me ” once again in america .
american power in the twenty-first century
cambridge – the united states government ’ s national intelligence council projects that american dominance will be “ much diminished ” by 2025 , and that the one key area of continued american superiority – military power – will be less significant in the increasingly competitive world of the future .
the leader of canada ’ s opposition liberal party , michael ig nati ef f , suggests that us power has passed its mid- day .
how can we know if these predictions are correct ?
one should be ware of misleading metaph ors of organic decline .
countries are not like humans with predictable life sp ans .
for example , after britain lost its american colonies at the end of the eighteenth century , hor ace wal pole lamented britain ’ s reduction to “ as insignificant a country as denmark or sar din ia . ”
he failed to foresee that the industrial revolution would give britain a second century of even greater ascend ency .
rome remained dominant for more than three centuries after the apo ge e of roman power .
even then , rome did not succumb to another state , but suffered a death of a thousand cuts inflicted by various barbar ian tribes .
indeed , for all the fashionable predictions of china , india , or brazil sur passing the us in the coming decades , the classical transition of power among great states may be less of a problem than the rise of modern barbar ians – non-state actors .
in an information- based world of cyber- insecurity , power diffusion may be a greater threat than power transition .
so , what will it mean to wield power in the global information age of the twenty-first century ?
what resources will produce power ?
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bul lion gave spain the edge ; seventeen th-century holland prof ited from trade and finance ; eigh teenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy .
conventional wisdom has always held that the state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best story that wins .
today , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how to develop successful survival strategies .
in his inaugural address in 2009 , president barack obama stated that “ our power grows through its prudent use ; our security eman ates from the just ness of our cause , the force of our example , the temper ing qualities of humility and restraint . ”
shortly thereafter , secretary of state hillary clinton said , “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not solve them without america .
we must use what has been called ‘ smart power , ’ the full range of tools at our disposal . ”
smart power means the combination of the hard power of command and the soft power of attraction .
power always depends on context .
the child who dominates on the play ground may become a lagg ard when the context changes to a disciplined classroom .
in the middle of the twentieth century , jos ef stalin scor n fully asked how many divisions the pope had , but four decades later , the pap acy was still intact while stalin ’ s empire had collapsed .
in today ’ s world , the distribution of power varies with the context .
it is distributed in a pattern that resembles a three- dimensional chess game .
on the top ch ess board , military power is largely unipolar , and the us is likely to remain the only superpower for some time .
but on the middle ch ess board , economic power has already been multi-polar for more than a decade , with the us , europe , japan , and china as the major players , and others gaining in importance .
the bottom ch ess board is the realm of cross-border transactions that occur outside of government control .
it includes diverse non-state actors , such as bankers electr onically transferring sums larger than most national budgets , and , at the other extreme , terrorists transferring weapons or hackers threatening cyber- security .
it also includes new challenges like pandemics and climate change .
even in the aftermath of the financial crisis , the g id dy pace of technological change is likely to continue to drive globalization and transnational challenges .
the problem for american power in the twenty-first century is that there are more and more things outside the control of even the most powerful state .
although the us does well on military measures , there is much going on that those measures fail to capture .
under the influence of the information revolution and globalization , world politics is changing in a way that prevents america from achieving all its international goals acting alone .
for example , international financial stability is vital to americans ’ prosperity , but the us needs the cooperation of others to ensure it .
global climate change , too , will affect americans ’ quality of life , but the us can not manage the problem alone .
in a world where borders are more por ous than ever to everything from drugs to infectious diseases to terrorism , america must help build international coalitions and institutions to address shared threats and challenges .
in this sense , power becomes a positive sum game .
it is not enough to think in terms of power over others . one must also think in terms of power to accomplish goals .
on many transnational issues , empowering others can help to accomplish one ’ s own goals .
in this world , networks and connectedness become an important source of relevant power .
the problem of american power in the twenty-first century is not one of decline , but of recognizing that even the most powerful country can not achieve its aims without the help of others .
ab using churchill
new york – a bron ze bust of winston churchill , displayed in the white house since the 1960s , has been the object of a continuing right-wing can ard in washington .
the story goes that when president barack obama moved in , he returned the bust to the british embassy , supposedly sign ifying his hatred of britain .
in fact , obama did no such thing .
the bust still stands in the white house residence , where it always did , except for a short time under president george w. bush when it was being repa ired .
but obama might have done well to remove the bust .
the cult of churchill has not been an altogether beneficial one for the united states .
too many us presidents f ancy themselves churchill ’ s true heirs .
bush had a copy of churchill ’ s bust , lent to him by tony blair , in the ov al office .
he liked to portray himself as a “ war president , ” a “ dec ider , ” and a “ great leader , ” like churchill .
he had a taste for battle dress .
and he got his country into a very foolish war .
donald trump ’ s british crony , nig el farage , the former leader of the uk independence party , suggested that trump should put the bron ze bust back in the ov al office .
trump thought this was a spl en did idea .
trump is the least appropriate figure to cast himself in churchill ’ s mold .
insofar as he has a coherent position on anything , he is hostile to most of the things that churchill stood for .
his “ america first ” posture , standing alo of from western allies , is exactly the kind of attitude against which churchill and franklin d. roosevelt struggled in order to successfully resist hitler ’ s third re ich .
the resulting atlantic charter included everything trump seems to be against : lower trade barriers , economic cooperation , and the advancement of social welfare .
once hitler was defeated , churchill was also a pro ponent of european unification , even if he remained ambival ent about britain ’ s role in the future union .
farage ’ s campaign for brexit , often pil fer ing churchill ’ s own wartime rhetoric about britain ’ s fin est hour in defending freedom against tyranny , was aimed at dismantling the very project churchill favored .
the “ special relationship ” between the us and britain , established during wwii , was never as substantial as churchill and others liked to believe .
the us , as the dominant postwar power , pursued its own interests , whether the british liked it or not .
and british pride in standing alone against nazi germany , and the self- ag grandi zing notion of being america ’ s special partner , has prevented the united kingdom from playing to its full strength as a major power inside the eu .
american leaders sometimes pay lip service to the special relationship , to flat ter visiting british prime ministers or get the uk on side in dubious military adventures .
there is talk of giving the relationship a new lease of life in the age of trump and brexit .
whereas obama warned that britain outside the eu would be at the back of the qu eu e for special trade deals , house speaker paul d. ryan recently stated that the us should quickly make a new deal with britain to show “ solidarity ” with an “ indispensable ally . ”
a special us tend erness for brexit britain – trump od dly referred to himself as “ m r . brexit ” – rather suggests the solidarity of two countries embarking on their own forms of economic nationalism .
again , this is precisely the route that churchill and roosevelt sought to avoid ; after all , economic nationalism was one of the reasons why europeans almost succeeded in destroying their continent .
of course , trump ’ s love of brexit may be just a question of words , like so much else about the great show man .
it is hard to imagine the us jeopardizing its economic interests by favoring britain at the expense of far bigger stakes in the rest of europe .
but words do matter , as churchill knew well .
again , the rhetoric of trump and his supporters , and of the brexiteers , could not be further removed from the spirit of the atlantic charter .
talk of sinister international bankers and other “ citizens of nowhere ” ( british prime minister theresa may ’ s phrase ) undermining , in league with ro ot less liberal elites , “ ordinary , ” “ real , ” and “ decent ” people ( farage ) sm acks of the anti-semitic propaganda that sw ir led around europe in the 1930s .
and churchill ’ s response to the flir tations of trump and the european far right with vladimir putin ’ s russia can easily be imagined .
none of this means that churchill was always right , let alone a figure to emulate .
he was the right man in 1940 to raise british morale , when morale was about the only thing the british had going for them .
but he is not a good model for politicians in less perilous times .
his views of colonial rule were already out of date before the war , and became a racist anachron ism after it .
his romantic ideas about the moral superiority of the english- speaking peoples were old-fashioned during his lifetime , and are an arrogant absur d ity now .
but churchill was neither petty nor provincial .
his vision , at least as far as the western world is concerned , may have been romantic , but it had a certain no bility .
the same can not be said of the next occup ant of the white house .
the idea of trump , advised by farage , using churchill ’ s bron ze head as a tot em would have filled the old man with horror .
american re treats
los angeles – as barack obama ’ s incoming administration debates the pace and consequences of withdrawal from iraq , it would do well to examine the strategic impact of other american exits in the final decades of the twentieth century .
although american commitments to lebanon , somalia , vietnam , and cambodia differ ed migh tily , history reveals that despite immediate costs to america ’ s reputation , disengagement ultimately red ounded to america ’ s advantage .
america ’ s former adversaries either became preoccupied with consolidating or sharing power , suffered domestic defeat , or confronted neighboring states .
ultimately , america ’ s vital interests prevailed .
the evidence today suggests that this pattern can be repeated when the united states de parts mes op ot am ia and leaves iraqis to define their own fate .
of the four withdraw als , arguably the 198 2- 1984 american intervention in lebanon marks the closest parallel to iraq today .
a country torn by sectarian violence beginning in 1975 , lebanon pit ted an even more complex array of cont est ants against each other than iraq does today .
into this fray stepped the us and its western allies . their objective was to create a military buffer between the plo and israeli forces that were then fighting in beirut in order to promote the departure of both .
the massacres in palestinian refugee camps prompted a new commitment to “ restore a strong and central government ” to lebanon , to quote president ronald reagan .
but the result of intervention was that us forces became just one more target , culminating in the 1983 bombing of a us marine barr acks that killed 2 41 american soldiers .
a similar suicide bombing two days later claimed the lives of 58 french soldiers .
in february 1984 , facing a quagmire , reagan acc eded to vice president george h.w . bush ’ s recommendation to get out of lebanon .
but the withdrawal of western forces did not stop the fighting .
the civil war continued for another six years , followed by a bumpy political aftermath : syrian intervention and exp ulsion ( two decades later ) , as the lebanese defined their own fate with the us exercising only background influence .
in 1992 , the sir ens of somalia ’ s political collapse lu red the us into another civil war to save a country from itself .
the us humanitarian mission to that ben ighted country sought to salv age a failed united nations enterprise to secure and feed somalia ’ s ravaged population .
the us committed 2 8,000 troops , which for a time imposed a modicum of security .
but ill- equipped and poorly led un replacement forces for the american presence put the remaining us troops in the bull ’ s eye as they attempted to bring to justice the somali war lord responsible for the death of pakistani peacekeepers .
the ensuing blood ba th of us soldiers generated images that the american public could not stomach , prompting the exit of american and then un forces .
as unrest mounted with these military re treats , offshore us forces monitored and inter cep ted jihadists who sought to enter somalia , while kenya and ethiopia blocked the unrest from me tast asi zing across the region .
in 2006 , the capture of somalia ’ s capital , mo gad ish u , by the islamic courts raised the specter of a jihadist state .
but somalia soon demonstrated that qu ag mi res can be a two- way street .
following ethiopia ’ s intervention , the islamists found themselves out of power .
today , somalia remains a dysfunctional state , as rival cl ans , jihadists , and an interim government with ethi opian support compete for power .
the us , now out of the quagmire , exercises limited influence from af ar .
while lebanon and somalia remain damaged and failed states , respectively , regional and domestic factors have cau ter ized the consequences of america ’ s retreat from vietnam and southeast asia . the result is the stable region that the world sees today .
but the us saw things very differently in the 1960 ’ s , when the ghosts of munich hover ed over vietnam ’ s jun g les .
as president george w. bush argued about the war in iraq , us president lyndon johnson predicted that defeat in vietnam “ would be renewed in one country and then another . ”
what johnson failed to foresee were the domestic and regional constraints that would prevent the domin os from falling in the way he predicted .
although the us bombed northeastern cambodia intens ely throughout the vietnam war years , it had no stomach for a ground commitment there .
still within congressional restraints , the nixon administration attempted to bolster cambodia ’ s military government .
rather than the domin os falling following america ’ s retreat from sa ig on in 1975 , a vietn am - cambodi an war ensu ed .
this in turn stimulated china ’ s unsuccessful intervention in north vietnam .
the withdrawal by all of these invading armies to the recognized international boundaries demonstrated that nationalist forces were dominant in the region , not communist solidarity .
none of these american exits was without consequence .
but , while the us suffered costs to its reputation around the world , the supposed advantages from this for america ’ s opponents proved illusory .
america ’ s departure from mes op ot am ia will likewise put the burden of problem solving onto iraqis and other regional players , leaving the us offshore to assist when and where it de ems appropriate .
history suggests that , in fits and starts , iraq , like vietnam and lebanon , will find itself able to sort out its own affairs .
gun nation
new york – defending the right of united states citizens to buy semi- automatic ri fl es or carry conce aled weapons is akin to denying any human responsibility for climate change .
rational arguments are not the point .
no matter how many schoolchildren are gun ned down or what the scientific evidence may be for the effects of carbon dioxide emissions , people will not change beliefs that define their identity .
it follows , then , that the more liberals from new york or san francisco , or indeed hou ston , ag itate for ways to control the sale of guns to civilians , the harder proponents of the right to own lethal weapons will fight back .
they will often do so with the zeal of religious believers who feel that their god has been off ended .
collective identities have a history , of course .
the us constitution ’ s second amendment , which guarantees the right to keep and bear arms , was adopted in 17 91 , when citizens who had rebel led against the british monarchy thought they needed to protect themselves , if called upon , against an oppressive state .
interpretation of this amendment has been contested terrain , but the original idea was that citizen militias should be armed .
for many americans , especially in rural areas and in the southern states , this collective entitlement became akin to a go d- given individual right .
demagogues have had great success pit ting such people against coastal and urban elites who supposedly want to strip them of this right .
the fear that demagogues exploit is rooted in more than a shared taste for hunting , or a notion of self-defense .
it is about who people think they are .
take away their gun rights , and they would feel culturally and socially annihil ated .
but if this is the core of many americans ’ identity , it points to an odd contradiction in their national self- image .
the second amendment is of course a legal concept .
in a way , that is true of the us itself .
as a country of immigrants , the us is not based on shared ancestr y or culture .
it is based on laws – the only way a people from so many different cultural backgrounds could be bound together in a common enterprise .
no wonder , then , that there are so many lawyers in the us , and why americans are more litig ious than , say , the japanese , who rely more on customs and traditions .
if the us can be said to have a civic religion , the constitution is its holy wr it .
and that is precisely how conservatives treat the found ational laws , including the second amendment .
in classical wester ns , the true american hero is the ru gged gun sl inger , the out law who knows right from wrong in his gut , the freed om - lo ving ram bl er who r ides into the sun set on his trusted horse , a rif le sl ung across his shoulders .
john way ne arrives to save the citizens from the bad gu ys in black suits whose ne far ious deeds undermine the liberty of the american frontier .
but who are those vill ains dressed in black ?
they are bankers , lawyers , businessmen , and rail road builders , often representing the interests of powerful figures in the big cities on the east coast .
they employ fighting men of their own , to be sure , but the black - suited men come from a world of contracts , treaties , and big government .
the story of most wester ns is of a wide- open rural id y ll , where man has found perfect autonomy , threatened by a state ruled by man-made laws .
the only laws the western hero respects are those laid down by god and his own conscience . and he badly needs his gun to defend them .
the problem with the american myth is that this rural id y ll of perfect individual liberty , this state of nature , as it were , can not possibly be maintained in a highly organized state of banks , courts , business corporations , and legislatures .
the second amendment is a s op to the myth , disguised by the fact that it is also en co ded as law .
ronald reagan understood the myth ical yearning of many americans better than most presidents , perhaps because he had acted in a number of wester ns himself .
when he famously proclaimed that “ government is not the solution to our problem , government is our problem , ” he was talking like a gun sl inger , even though he was officially speaking as the newly installed us president .
in a far co ar s er and more belligerent way , donald trump has followed reagan ’ s example .
in fact , he really is a kind of out law , with no use for norms of civil ity in government .
in many ways , trump has managed to combine the habits of a desper ado with the interests of the men dressed in black suits , the corporate leaders , the bankers , and their political representatives in washington .
trump is a new york hu st ler who can tap into the fears of bi ble belt gun - lo vers .
if the us is riv en by an escalating culture war over its national identity , trump has the un cann y ability of person ifying the worst aspects of both sides of the divide : the lawlessness of the gun sl inger and the rap ac iousness of the city sl ick er .
to overcome the dangerous f issu res that are tear ing its society apart , the us must find a president who can bridge the cultural divide .
alas , it could not have chosen a man less suited to the task .
my apology tour
st owe , ver mont – american presidents are supposed to take america ’ s side when dealing with other countries .
when barack obama was ( fal sely ) accused of starting his term with a middle east “ apology tour , ” it was understood that apolog izing to foreigners would have been a bad thing , if true .
now donald trump is being heavily criticized for failing to take the side of his own intelligence services and law enforcement agencies when their findings about his friend , russian president vladimir putin , ran counter to what putin assured him .
but while us presidents are not supposed to apologize for their country , nothing says that professors can ’ t .
here goes :
dear world : not all americans pay attention to foreign affairs .
but presum ing to speak on behalf of many who do : we are ab jec tly remor se ful for inflicting trump on you .
we hope you still believe that america is better than this ; will try to remain patient until this bizarre historical episode passes ; and , when it does end , will join us in rebuilding an open and cooperative rules-based world order .
many of you deserve a dedicated apology .
in alph abe tical order :
dear australia : we apologize for trump ’ s january 28 , 2017 , phone call with your prime minister , in which he insul ted immigrants , will fully mis understood facts regarding an american commitment , and concluded that he found talking to putin more pleasant .
dear britain : while visiting your country this month , trump though t lessly undermined the political position of prime minister theresa may .
sorry for that , and for his mend acious attacks on london mayor sad i q khan .
dear canada : sorry that trump ( fal sely ) said canad ians invaded the us and burned down the white house in the war of 18 12 ; that he still hasn ’ t learned what the bilateral trade balance is ; and that he insul ted g7 host prime minister just in tru de au last month .
dear central america : you were invisible to us until a small number of desperate refugee families reached our border , wher eu p on we separated small children from their families and locked them all up .
how can we er ase this st ain ?
we could help your countries develop , if we tried , and at a far lower cost than the doomed wars in afghanistan and iraq .
dear china : we apologize for giving you piles of paper ( treasury bills ) in exchange for all the ne at merchandise you have been sending us .
it ’ s not fair .
on the other hand , your current-account surplus peaked at 10 % of gdp in 2007 , and now stands at a mere 1.3 % of gdp .
so now you are getting real goods and services in exchange for your exports .
dear estonia , latvia , and lithuania : we feel terrible that trump ’ s wa vering support for nato has made you fear that the us might not honor its treaty commitment to come to your aid if russia were to invade your territory .
but we would .
dear european union : we are sorry that trump called you a foe and that he che ers on the forces trying to frac ture you .
sorry for those steel and aluminum tariffs , too .
o h , and sorry for all those refugees we unleashed on you when we destabilized the middle east .
dear france : your president , emmanuel macron , made an excellent effort to be friend trump while sticking to principle .
we are sorry that it did not get him anywhere and in particular that trump , ignoring european ple as , subsequently ren eged on the 2015 iran nuclear deal .
dear germany : sorry that trump has repeatedly insul ted chancellor angela merkel .
dear iran : we are sorry that trump has withdrawn the us from the joint comprehensive plan of action , as the nuclear deal is known , and is now re- imposing sanctions , even though you have verifi ably ab ided by the agreed terms .
usually we keep our word .
dear ireland : we are sorry that trump apparently believes you are part of the united kingdom and that you like him .
we know you aren ’ t and don ’ t .
dear japan : prime minister shinzo abe is one of many foreign leaders to learn that co z ying up to trump works only while he is standing next to you .
in fact , japan was the only major us ally not granted even a temporary exemption from trump ’ s 25 % steel tariff .
also , we are sorry for trump ’ s apparent indifference to north korea ’ s ability to strike you ( and south korea ) militarily .
dear mexico : what can i say ?
we know that “ criminals ” and “ rap ists ” are in fact far less common among immigrants from mexico and elsewhere than among nati ve- born americans .
we know that you will not pay to build a border wall .
dear philippines , russia , turkey , egypt , and others : we understand the historic attraction of a strong leader who claims to get things done .
but your “ strongmen ” do not help your countries in the long run , and we are sorry that trump ’ s disdain for the rule of law aids their economic mismanagement and human-rights abuses .
dear south korea : we are sorry that trump ’ s eag erness to match kim jong-un insult for insult last year stoked fears of a catastrophic war on the korean peninsula .
president moon ja e- in deserves the nobel peace prize for rat che ting down the risk of conflict .
it ’ s too bad that , following trump ’ s summit with kim in june , he didn ’ t consul t you before announcing the dis continuation of joint military exercises , while getting nothing in exchange .
dear sweden : sorry that trump on february 19 , 2017 , fabric ated a terrorist attack “ last night in sweden . ”
dear ukraine : trump ’ s historical memory appears not to go back as far as 2014 , when russia invaded you .
or if it does , he says it ’ s ok ay because so many ukrainians speak russian .
sorry for that – and that trump ’ s campaign manager , paul manafort , now in jail , worked for the pro- russian side in ukraine .
dear venezuela : we regret that trump is prolong ing the life of your aw ful government by threatening invasion and giving the leaders a scapegoat for their humanitarian disaster .
i also apologize to every country i left out of this tour .
trump ’ s demol ition of the rules-based , tru th- based , pro- trade world order hurts everyone .
please keep our seat warm at international meetings and organizations .
the real us will return .
trump ’ s depl or ables
new york – hillary clinton , the democratic us presidential nominee , recently described supporters of her opponent , donald trump , as a “ basket of depl or ables . ”
it was neither a tac tful nor an elegant phrase , and she later apolog ized for her remark .
but she was more right than wrong .
trump has attracted many supporters whose views on race , for example , are indeed depl orable .
the problem is that many of these depl orable voters are also relatively un educated , which makes clinton ’ s remark look s no b b ish .
alas , the united states has too many relatively un educated people .
among developed countries , the us ranks low in terms of literacy , general knowledge , and science .
japanese , south koreans , dutch , canad ians , and russians score consistently higher .
this is at least partly the result of leaving education too much to the market : those with money are highly educated , and those with insufficient means are not educated enough .
so far , it seems clear that clinton appeals to better- educated urban voters , while trump attracts mainly less- educated white men , many of whom in earlier generations would have been democr at- voting coal min ers or industrial workers .
does this mean that there is a link between education – or the lack of it – and the appeal of a dangerous dem agogue ?
one of the most remarkable things about trump is the extent of his own ignorance , despite his high educational attainment , and the fact that he seems to benefit from fla unting it .
perhaps it is easier for a lou d- mou th ed ignor am us to convince large numbers of people whose knowledge of the world is as slight as his own .
but this is to assume that fac tual truth matters in the rhetoric of a populist ag it ator .
emotions count more , and the prime emotions that demagogues manipulate , in the us and elsewhere , are fear , resentment , and distrust .
this was also true in germany when hitler came to power .
but the nazi party in its early days did not find the bulk of its support among the least educated .
germany was more highly educated than other countries , on average , and the most enthusiastic nazis included school teachers , engineers , and doctors , as well as provincial small businessmen , white- collar workers , and farmers .
urban factory workers and conservative catholics were , on the whole , less susceptible to hitler ’ s blan dis h ments than many more highly educated protestants .
low educational standards do not explain hitler ’ s rise .
fear , resentment , and distrust ran very high in we im ar germany , after the humiliation of wartime defeat and amid a devastating economic depression .
but the racial prejudices wh ipped up by nazi propag an di sts were not the same as the ones we see among many trump supporters today .
the jews were seen as a sinister force that was dominating the elite professions : bankers , professors , lawyers , news media , or entertainment .
they were the so-called back - st ab bers who prevented germany from being great again .
the trump supporters are showing a similar anim us against symbols of the elite , such as wall street bankers , “ mainstream ” media , and washington insiders .
but their xenophobia is directed against poor mexican immigrants , bl acks , or middle eastern refugees , who are perceived as fre elo aders depriving honest ( read white ) americans of their righ tful place in the social pec king order .
it is a question of relatively under privileged people in a glob alizing , increasingly multi- cultural world , res enting those who are even less privileged .
in the us today , as in the we im ar republic , the resent ful and the fearful have so little trust in prevailing political and economic institutions that they follow a leader who promises maximum disruption .
by cleaning out the st ables , it is hoped , greatness will return .
in hitler ’ s germany , this hope existed among all classes , whether elite or ple be ian .
in trump ’ s america , it thr ives mostly among the latter .
in the us and europe , today ’ s world looks less sc ary to more affluent and better educated voters , who benefit from open borders , cheap migrant labor , information technology , and a rich mixture of cultural influences .
likewise , immigrants and ethnic minorities who seek to improve their lot have no interest in joining a populist rebellion directed mainly against them , which is why they will vote for clinton .
trump must thus rely on disaffected white americans who feel that they are being left behind .
the fact that enough people feel that way to sustain such an un suitable presidential candidate is an indictment of us society .
this does have something to do with education – not because well-educated people are immune to demagog y , but because a broken education system leaves too many people at a disadvantage .
in the past , there were enough industrial jobs for less- educated voters to make a decent living .
now that those jobs are van ishing in post- industrial societies , too many people feel that they have nothing more to lose .
this is true in many countries , but it matters more in the us , where putting a bigo ted dem agogue in charge would do great damage not only to that country , but also to all countries trying to hold onto their freedoms in an increasingly perilous world .
the double standard of america ’ s china trade policy
cambridge – a high-profile united states trade delegation appears to have returned emp ty- handed from its mission in china .
the result is hardly a surprise , given the scale and one- sided nature of the us demands .
the americans pushed for a wholesale re making of china ’ s industrial policies and intellectual property rules , while asking china ’ s government to refrain from any action against trump ’ s proposed unilateral tariffs against chinese exports .
the global trading order of the last generation – since the creation of the world trade organization in 1995 – has been predic ated on the assumption that regulatory regimes around the world would converge .
china , in particular , would become more “ western ” in the way that it manages its economy .
instead , the continued divergence of economic systems has been a fertile source of trade friction .
there are good reasons for china – and other economies – to resist the pressure to con form to a mold imposed on them by us export lobbies .
after all , china ’ s phenomen al globalization success is due as much to the regime ’ s unorthodox and creative industrial policies as it is to economic liberalization .
selective protection , credit subsidies , state-owned enterprises , domes tic- content rules , and technology- transfer requirements have all played a role in making china the manufacturing powerhouse that it is .
china ’ s current strategy , the “ made in china 2025 ” initiative , aims to build on these achievements to cat ap ult the country to advanced-economy status .
the fact that many of china ’ s policies violate wto rules is plain enough .
but those who der is i vely call china a “ trade che at ” should ponder whether china would have been able to diversify its economy and grow as rapidly if it had become a member of the wto before 2001 , or if it had slav ishly applied wto rules since then .
the irony is that many of these same commentators do not hesitate to point to china as the poster boy of globalization ’ s upside – conveniently for getting on those occasions the degree to which china has fl ou ted the global economy ’ s contemporary rules .
china plays the globalization game by what we might call bretton woods rules , after the much more permis sive regime that governed the world economy in the early postwar period .
as a chinese official once explained to me , the strategy is to open the window but place a screen on it .
they get the fresh air ( foreign investment and technology ) while keeping out the harmful elements ( volatile capital flows and disruptive imports ) .
in fact , china ’ s practices are not much different from what all advanced countries have done historically when they were catching up with others .
one of the main us complaints against china is that the chinese systematically violate intellectual property rights in order to steal technological secrets .
but in the nineteenth century , the us was in the same position in relation to the technological leader of the time , britain , as china is today vis-à-vis the us .
and the us had as much regard for british industri alists ’ trade secrets as china has today for american intellectual property rights .
the fled gling textile mil ls of new england were desperate for technology and did their best to steal british designs and smugg le in skilled british craf t smen .
the us did have patent laws , but they protected only us citizens .
as one historian of us business has put it , the americans “ were pir ates , too . ”
any sensible international trade regime must start from the recognition that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrict the policy space countries have to design their own economic and social models .
levels of development , values , and historical trajec tories differ too much for countries to be sho e hor ned into a specific model of capitalism .
sometimes domestic policies will backfire and keep foreign investors out and the domestic economy impoverished .
at other times , they will propel economic transformation and poverty reduction , as they have done on a massive scale in china , generating gains not just for the home economy but also for consumers worldwide .
international trade rules , which are the result of pain sta king negotiations among diverse interests – including , most notably , corporations and their lobbies , can not be expected to discriminate reliably between these two sets of circumstances .
countries pursuing harmful policies that blunt their development prospects are doing the greatest damage to themselves .
when domestic strategies go wrong , other countries may be hurt ; but it is the home economy that pays the steep est price – which is incentive enough for governments not to pursue the wrong kind of policies .
governments that worry about the transfer of critical technological know-how to foreigners are , in turn , free to enact rules prohibiting their firms from investing abroad or restricting foreign take over s at home .
many liberal commentators in the us think trump is right to go after china .
yet the fact is that trump ’ s trade agenda is driven by a narrow mercantilism that privileges the interests of us corporations over other stakeholders .
it shows little interest in policies that would improve global trade for all .
such policies should start from the trade regime ’ s golden rule : do not impose on other countries constraints that you would not accept if faced with their circumstances .
america ’ s ongoing civil war
new york – america continues be in a state of civil war .
not just a civil war , but the civil war .
in the first round , back in the 18 6 0s , the con feder acy lost .
yet now the con feder acy is temporarily on top .
the united states remains one country divided by two cultures .
from the start , the us has been a battle ground of two competing visions .
america ’ s founding cre do was that “ all men are created equal . ”
yet the founding reality was that white males were far more equal than everyone else .
white men owned sl aves , denied the vote to women , and took the lands and lives of native americans .
during the 18 6 1- 18 65 civil war , the slav e holding con feder acy , formed by 13 secessi onist states , was defeated by 19 northern states and then occupied by the federal government for a dozen years .
yet after “ reconstruction ” ended in 18 77 , the south vigorously practiced systemic racism for almost a century , until the us congress enacted the 1964 civil rights act and the 1965 voting rights act , mainly with the support of northern democrats .
from that moment , southern white voters deser ted the democratic party en mas se .
the republicans embraced the so-called southern strategy , based on resisting the rise of african-americans and other minority groups and opposing legislation that would transfer any funds , status , or power to them .
the republicans thereby became the party of the south , and the democrats the party of the northeast and pacific west , with the mid west and western mountain states the swing regions .
the industrial great l akes region tended toward the democrats while the mid western farm states and mountain states lean ed republican .
the mid western and mountain states also carried the frontier culture of white settlers suppressing native americans and asian and his panic immigrants .
gun ownership marks another divide between democrats and republicans .
the republican party ’ s gun culture reflects the same cultural forces that shape its anti- minority views .
in a brilliant book , loaded , historian ro x anne d un bar - or ti z reminds us that the “ well- regulated militias ” mentioned in the us constitution ’ s second amendment , which enshr ines the right to bear arms , were groups of white men that ra ided native american villages and hun ted down escaped sl aves .
as av id it ach ar ya , mat the w black well , and ma ya sen power fully argue in their recent book deep roots : how slavery still shapes southern politics , it is the legacy of slavery and post- civil war segregation that gave rise to the south ’ s current political culture .
“ it is within formerly high- slave areas , ” they show , “ that whites are the most likely to oppose the democratic party , oppose affirmative action , and express sentiments that could be constr ued as rac ially resent ful . ”
both before and after the civil war , poor southern whites accepted their low ly status because they pr ized their superiority over even more desperate african-americans .
racial politics thus blocked the emergence of class politics , which would have brought poor whites and poor bl acks together to demand more public services paid for by higher taxes on elite whites .
of the 26 senators representing the 13 former con feder ate states today , 21 are republicans and five are democrats .
of the 38 senators now representing the 19 northern states of 18 61 , 27 are democrats and nine are republicans ( two independ ents , bernie sanders and ang us king , caucus with the democrats ) .
trump , a champion of the white male southern culture , is sh un ned by his home state ( 59 % dis approval as of september 2018 ) .
he is more miss is si pp i than man hatt an .
the cultural divide was on full display in the senate proceedings that recently confirmed judge bre tt k av an augh to the us supreme court .
k av an augh ’ s senate defenders were mainly white men of the south and mid west who defl ected the questioning of k av an augh ’ s white male prerog ative to drink and car ouse as a young man by instead attacking the nominee ’ s acc users .
mit ch mc connell of k ent uc ky , a former slave state , successfully orchestrated k av an augh ’ s confirmation .
lin d sey gra ham of south carolina , the first slave state to sec ede in 18 60 , was k av an augh ’ s most aggressive promo ter on the senate judiciary committee , describing sexual assault allegations against k av an augh as “ the most unethical sham since i ’ ve been in politics . ”
john kennedy of lou is i ana , another former con feder ate state , called the hearings “ an inter gal ac tic fre ak show . ”
the democrats and republicans are parties not just of different cultures and regions , but also of different economies .
the northeast and pacific states lead the us in high technology , innovation , higher education , well- paying jobs , and per capita income .
the south lags far behind .
not only are the working-class white men of the south and mid west defending their status and racial privileges ; they are also fighting for their jobs in industries where automation and foreign trade have steadily eroded employment .
working-class southern whites would have much to gain from abandoning the republicans ’ rac e- based politics in favor of class -based politics .
it is , after all , white corporate elites , not poor african-americans , his panics , and other minorities , who deprive working-class whites of quality public schools , affordable health care , and environmental safety .
southern white male senators play up the culture war in part to shield the republicans ’ mega- rich donors , who fe ast on corporate tax cuts and environmental deregulation while the party scapego ats african-americans and his panics .
the declining pre dominance of non- his panic whites in the total population has probably widened america ’ s cultural divide during the past 20 years .
and with non- his panic whites expected to become a minority of the total population by around 20 45 , america ’ s ongoing civil war could worsen .
it will not end until working-class americans of all regions , races , and ethn ic ities join forces to demand higher taxes and greater accountability of the rich corporate elite .
america ’ s exploding deficit
cambridge – two recent pieces of budget news are a grim reminder of the perilous state of fiscal policy in the united states .
president barack obama ’ s office of management and budget announced that the federal government ’ s deficit this fiscal year will be about $ 600 billion , up by $ 16 2 billion from 2015 , an increase of more than 35 % .
and the annual long-term budget outlook produced by the congressional budget office ( cbo ) predicts that , with no change in fiscal policy , federal government debt will rise from 75 % of gdp to 86 % a decade from now , and then to a record 14 1 % in 20 46 , near levels in italy , portugal , and greece .
although the us debt-to-gdp ratio doubled in the past decade , the obama administration and congress ignored the problem , focusing instead on the annual deficit ’ s decline since 2012 and the relative stability of the deficit as a share of gdp .
that temporary progress reflected the economic recovery and congressional votes to limit spending on defense and non defense discretionary programs .
but the longer-term rise in the annual deficits – owing to an aging population , changing medical technology , and rising interest rates – and the resulting increase in the debt-to-gdp ratio were inevitable ( and were clearly predicted by the cbo and others ) .
the larger number of older americans who are eligible for social security benefits will drive the program ’ s costs from 4.9 % of gdp this year to 6. 3 % of gdp over the next 30 years .
half of the rise in the cost of the major federal health-care programs , from 5.5 % of gdp now to 8. 9 % in 20 46 , will result from the increased number of older beneficiaries , with the other half caused by the technolog ic ally- driven extra cost of treating them .
the federal reserve ’ s unconventional monetary policy has driven down the cost of the net interest on the federal debt to just 1.4 % of gdp , despite the increase in the volume of the debt .
but as interest rates normalize and the volume of debt grows , the cost of servicing the interest on the national debt is projected to increase to 5.8 % of gdp .
that projected interest cost may be much less than it would actually be if the rest of the deficit and debt forecast turns out to be correct .
but investors in treasury bonds might demand a much higher interest rate in exchange for loading up their portfolios with us debt .
in that case , the interest cost and the debt would be much greater .
the fact that more than half of the publicly held us government debt is now owned by foreign investors might make the interest rate even more sensitive to the debt ’ s relative size .
foreign investors might fear that the government could adopt policies that reduced the real value of their holdings .
while the us government would never explicitly default , it could adopt policies such as deduc ting income tax on interest payments , which would disadvantage foreign holders and depress the value of the bonds .
moreover , foreign investors might fear that very high debt levels could lead to inflationary monetary policy , which would depreciate the value of the dollar and lower the real value of their bonds .
here is an amazing and disturbing implication of the cbo ’ s forecast .
by 20 46 , the projected outlays for the “ mandatory ” entitlement programs ( social security and the major health programs ) , plus interest on the debt , would absorb more than all of the revenue that the government would collect with current tax rates .
a small deficit ( 1.6 % of gdp ) would emerge even before spending on defense and other annually appropri ated “ discretionary ” programs .
there is no way to offset the growth of the mandatory programs by slowing the growth of defense and other discretionary outlays .
total defense spending is now just 3.2 % of gdp and is expected to decline to 2.6 % over the next ten years and to remain at that level for the next 20 years .
that would be the lowest defense share of gdp since before world war ii .
the same reduction is projected for all non- defense discretionary programs , also a record-low share of gdp .
the bright spot in this bleak picture is that it would not take much in terms of annual deficit reductions to prevent the rise in the debt ratio , or even to bring it back to where it was a decade ago .
reducing the annual deficit by 1.7 % of gdp by any combination of reduced spending and higher revenue would , if begun in 2017 , prevent an increase from the current 75 % debt-to-gdp ratio .
and reducing the deficit by 3 % a year would reverse the debt trajectory and bring it back to where it was in the decades before the recession .
neither of the presidential candidates has indicated either a plan or an inclination to reverse the projected rise in the national debt .
but it should be a top priority for whoever moves into the white house next year .
given the need to act quickly to avoid the worst-case scenario , there is no excuse for waiting .
america ’ s anti- environmentalists
as an american , i am app alled , ash amed , and embarr assed by my country ’ s lack of leadership in dealing with global warming .
scientific evidence on the risks moun ts by the day , as most recently documented in england ’ s mag ist erial stern report .
yet , despite the fact that the united states accounts for roughly 25 % of all man-made global carbon emissions , americans show little will or inclination to temper their man ic consumption .
the first george w. bush administration was probably right to refuse to sign the so-called “ kyoto protocol , ” albeit for the wrong reasons .
among other problems , the kyoto protocol does not go far enough towards redistribu ting carbon emission rights towards developing countries .
but why can ’ t the us bring itself to raise taxes on gasoline and other sources of carbon emission like coal burning power plants ?
it is not like the us government , running a huge deficit despite an economic boom , does not need the money .
many people seem to think that the bush administration is the problem .
put a texas oil man and his bud dies in charge and what do you expect , conservation ?
american citizens ’ resistance to moder ating energy consumption for the sake of the global environment is much more deeply embedded .
consider former us vice president al gore , for example , whose documentary film on global warming , an inconvenient truth , is celebrated for its un fl in ching look at how fossil fuel consumption is leading mankind to the brink of catastrophe .
the evidence on global warming is considerably more muddled than gore ’ s film suggests , but the basic problem is real .
unfortunately , however , gore was not successful in carrying the tor ch on global warming when he was a politician .
one can not comm end the 1990 ’ s clint on- gore administration for taking any brave steps aimed at radically reducing carbon emissions .
small wonder : the american public is fiercely resistant to anything that seriously forces them to compromise on their energy- burning , gas- gu zz ling lifestyle .
it is not just politicians who have failed to provide leadership here .
the v ener able new york times editorial page was apparently opposed to an energy tax until only recently , when the newspaper finally endorsed the idea .
like many liberals , the times ’ editors worried that higher energy taxes would fall disproportionately on the poor .
the typical argument one he ars is , “ what about the poor guy with the gas- gu zz ling 1980 ch ev y car , who has no other way to get to work ? ”
it is a legitimate point , but if ocean levels start rising , as the stern report predicts , a lot of our children will be swimming to work some day .
the need for correc tive measures to alleviate inequality is no excuse for inaction on global warming .
the change of position by the times , unfortunately , does not herald an ab out- face in the american electorate .
mention the idea of an energy tax to any potential 2008 us presidential candidate , and their faces will pale .
it is fine to say that you care about the environment or to claim , as bush seems to do , that miracle technologies will solve the problem without too much pain .
but any 2008 presidential candidate that da res to talk about making sacrifices now for a safer environment later will really be sticking his neck out .
until americans su ck it up and start fixing global environmental problems that they , more than anyone , have caused , it will be difficult to get the whol e hear ted support of the rest of the world .
developing countries ask why they should pay attention to global warming if rich countries are not prepared to curtail their own emissions sharply ?
why should poor countries worry about how deforestation contributes to global warming when rich countries remain so profligate ?
the scientific evidence suggests that carbon emissions from anywhere in the world have about the same impact on global warming .
for this reason , a wide range of economists favor a uniform ( “ harmon ized ” ) global tax that would tax carbon emissions equally everywhere in the world , and from whatever source – whether coal , oil , or gas , and whether consumers or businesses .
such a tax is the most flexible and market- friendly approach , and would have the least impact on economic growth .
instead , the complex system of quotas favored by the europeans and embodied in the kyoto protocol is likely to lead to much larger inefficiencies and costs .
for this reason , england ’ s stern report is probably far too optimistic when it calcul ates that an ec lec tic approach to reducing carbon emissions will cost the world only 1 % per year of income .
but the stern report is still right to argue that the potential risks of continued inaction are far greater .
america ’ s unwillingness to take the lead on environmental issues may some day be regarded as one of the country ’ s most profound political failures .
one hopes that it changes course soon , before we all are forced to wear swim suits to work .
a new low for china bashing
new haven – as america ’ s election season ne ars its finish , the debate seems to have come un hing ed .
get tough with china , both stressed in the presidential debates , and the pain will ease .
nothing could be further from the truth . consider the following charges :
currency manipulation .
since china reformed its exchange-rate regime in july 2005 , the renminbi has risen 32 % relative to the dollar and about 30 % in inflation-adjusted terms against a broad basket of currencies .
these are hardly trivial amounts , and more renminbi appreciation can be expected in the years to come .
unlike japan , which was pressured by the west into a large yen revaluation in 1985 ( the “ pl az a accord ” ) , the chinese have opted to move gradually and deliberately .
american officials call this “ manipulation , ” arguing that market forces would have resulted in a sharper renminbi appreciation than has occurred .
fixated on stability – a concept alien to us politicians and policymakers – the chinese prefer , instead , to play a more active role in managing the adjustment of their currency .
i call that prudence – perhaps even wisdom .
two lost decades later , the guinea pi g , japan , might have a view on which approach works best .
outsourcing and intellectual property .
notwithstanding some recent modest improvements in the us labor market , america ’ s job situation remains terrible .
private-sector employment is still down 4.1 million from its january 2008 peak .
yet there is not a sh red of evidence to support bipartisan claims that this ongoing carnage is the result of outsourcing us manufacturing jobs to china .
while the manufacturing sector ’ s share of private employment fell from 1 1.9 % in january 2008 to 1 0.7 % in september 2012 , this is only a small portion of the enormous secular decline since the early 1970 ’ s , when manufacturing accounted for more than 30 % of private-sector employment .
weak demand – especially the post-crisis collapse in consumer spending growth – is a far more likely culprit than china in explaining the recent hiring shortfall .
china , for its part , has become a major work horse of globalization – an assembly hub for inputs produced by multi- country supply chains and an offshore efficiency solution for hard- pressed western multinational corporations .
about 50 % of all exports leaving china have been processed previously by other economies , and close to 60 % are shi pped by chinese subsidiaries of “ foreign- invested enterprises . ”
while these trends benefit chinese workers , they also support america and other countries by holding down inflation and making it possible for their companies to cope with tough competitive pressures . they allow beleaguered american families to stretch their pay checks ( think wal-mart ) .
and they have not stopped innovative western companies from putting their intellectual property and new technologies on the line in china in order to deliver spectacular new products to us customers ( think apple ) .
the trade deficit .
yes , the us runs a massive trade deficit with china – around $ 2 95 billion in 2011 , or fully 40 % of america ’ s total merchandise trade gap of $ 7 38 billion .
republicans and democrats alike argue that this is the cru x of america ’ s jobs problem .
after all , trade deficits mean job losses .
because the biggest share of the us trade gap is with china , a country vil ified as a currency- manipulating che ater , the bilateral trade deficit has become the ligh tening ro d for china bash ers .
it is what has driven obama to go to the m at with china on recent disputes within the world trade organization and on restrictions on chinese investment in or eg on wind farms , and what has led to sab er- rattling by romney on currency manipulation and trade sanctions .
but neither candidate acknowledges the much bigger elephant in the room .
in 2011 , the us had trade deficits with 98 countries .
the other 97 deficits did not mag ically appear .
lacking in savings and wanting to grow , the us runs massive current-account and multilateral trade deficits in order to import other countries ’ surplus savings .
this goes to the heart of the folly of china bashing .
no leading country in world history has persistently maintained a negative saving rate .
trade deficits – with china or any other country – are part of the price that america pays for its unbridled profligacy .
unless and until the us faces up to its chronic aversion to saving – namely , by reducing massive federal budget deficits and encouraging the rebuilding of severely depleted household saving – multilateral trade deficits will persist .
simple arithmetic and basic economics tell us that a multilateral problem can not be addressed by a bilateral solution .
politicians have a penchant for simple and powerful messages .
yet those messages are often more spin than substance .
american families are hurting , and elected officials want to pin the blame on china , thereby defl ecting attention from the difficult task of rebuilding saving , restoring competitiveness , and living within the country ’ s means .
indeed , one could argue that it is the american public that is being manipulated by the err on eous charges leveled at china .
fortunately , the campaign season is nearly over .
left un answered , however , is what comes next .
china bash ers typically change their tune after a presidential election .
but there is nothing typical about the pressures that are likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 .
both obama and romney run the risk of pain ting themselves into a corner when it comes to china .
that could take all of us to the edge of a slip per y slope .
america ’ s leaders need to come clean with the american people – before it is too late .
america ’ s coming social democracy ?
almost all of the world ’ s developed countries consider themselves , and are , social democracies : mixed economies with very large governments performing a wide array of welfare and social insurance functions , and removing large ch un ks of wealth and commodity distribution from the market .
the united states is something different . or is it ?
whatever it has been in the past , the us in the future will have to choose whether , and how much , it will be a social democracy .
once upon a time , according to myth ology at least , america had little downward mobility .
on the contrary , before the civil war you could start out spl itting ra ils , light out for the western territory , make a success of yourself on the frontier , and wind up as president – if you were named abraham lincoln .
in the generation after world war ii , you could secure a blue-collar uni on ized manufacturing job or climb to the top of a white collar bureaucracy that offered job security , relatively high salaries , and long , stable career ladd ers .
this was always half myth .
setting out for the western territory was expensive . covered w ag ons were not cheap .
even in the first post-wwii generation , only a minority of americans – a largely white , male minority – found well- paying stable jobs at large , uni on ized , capital-intensive manufacturing companies like gm , ge , or at & t .
but if this story was half myth , it was also half true , particularly in the years after wwii .
largely independent of education or family , those americans who did value stability and security could grasp it in the form of jobs with “ a future . ”
it was during this era – roughly from 1948 to 1973 – that soci ologists found that a majority of americans had come to define themselves not as working class , but as middle class .
the post-wwii period stands as a reference point in america ’ s collective memory , but it was in all likelihood an aberr ation .
in the early postwar decades , foreign competition exer ted virtually no pressure on the economy , owing to the isolation of america ’ s continental market from the devastation of wwii .
at the same time , the war left enormous p ent- up demand for the products of mass production : cars , washing machines , refriger ators , law n m ow ers , television sets , and more .
government policy back then began with a permanent military program of spending and r & d and continued through massive public works program and sub urbanization , underpinned by the federal highway program and subsidized home ownership loans from the federal housing administration .
the regulatory institutions and behavioral norms that originated in the new deal and developed during wwii came into full force : social security , a system of uni on ized labor relations , market regulation .
favorable macroeconomic circumstances , the absence of foreign competition , a system of government support and regulation , and large-scale private provision of what in europe would have been public social insurance all combined to give post-wwii america many of social democracy ’ s benefits without the costs . the economy did not st agg er under the weight of ample benefits or high taxes .
americans – at least white , male americans – did not have to worry about tradeoffs between security and opportunity , because the us offered the advantages of both .
corporate welfare capitalism substitu ted for what in europe would have been government provided social democracy .
america was thus a special place .
it had its cake and ate it , too : a combination of security with opportunity and entrepreneurship .
it seemed that this was the natural order of things .
hence there was little pressure for government- sponsored social democracy : why bother ?
what would it add ?
now things are very different .
the typical american employer is no longer general mo tors .
it is wal-mart .
private businesses are providing their workers with less and less in the form of defin ed- benefit pensions , health insurance , and other forms of insurance against life ’ s economic risks .
sharply rising income inequality has raised the stakes of the economic game .
a government that can not balance its own finances can not be relied on to provide macroeconomic stability .
indeed , former chairman of the us federal reserve paul volcker sees the us as so macro economically vulnerable as to be running a 75 % chance of a full-fledged dollar crisis over the next several years .
the coming generation will be one of massive downward mobility for many americans .
the political struggles that this generates will determine whether america will move more closely to the social democratic norm for developed countries , or find some way to accept and ration alize its existence as a country of high economic risk and deep divisions of income and wealth .
syria and september 11
paris – by chance , it appears that the us congress will decide on or around september 11 whether to endorse president barack obama ’ s proposal to respond militarily to the syrian government ’ s use of poison gas against civilians .
the shadow of two previous events that took place on september 11 looms over the outcome – indeed , over the fact that the question is even being considered at all .
long before september 11 became a day of infam y in the united states , it acquired similar significance in chile , where 40 years ago , on september 11 , 1973 , the armed forces , led by general aug us to pin ochet , overthrew the country ’ s democratically elected government .
more than any other event of our era , that violent coup was responsible for launching both the contemporary global movement for human rights and the american movement to promote human rights internationally .
in part , this reflected the new regime ’ s cruelty .
to an even greater extent , however , the motivation that spurred the human-rights movement was re vul sion worldwide , including in the us , against american aid to pin ochet ’ s forces , a policy directed by president richard nixon and secretary of state henry kissinger .
in the us , members of congress turned the coup into a platform for efforts to promote human rights .
they condemned developments in chile , held hearings about the importance of promoting human rights , and adopted legislation – over president ger al d ford ’ s veto – requiring that human-rights standards guide us foreign policy .
a slightly revised version of that legislation remains in force .
obama ’ s pro clam ation that the use of chemical weapons in syria would cross a “ red line ” – and his implicit threat to use force if that line were crossed – reflects the commitment that the us has made during the past four decades to promote human rights worldwide .
the events of september 11 , 2001 , are also playing a crucial role in deciding the question of a punitive strike against syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s regime .
one consequence of the terrorist attacks 12 years ago is that americans and others in the west became aware that developments in the middle east could affect their own safety and security .
initially , the attacks unleashed a strong desire to retaliate , which later gave way to caution about intervention , owing to unforeseen consequences .
in britain , continuing intense resentment over the dec ep tions that led to the country ’ s engagement in the iraq war seems to be the main reason for parliament ’ s refusal to back a strike against syria .
war iness of another middle east war has also underpinned obama ’ s unwillingness to go beyond a one-time punitive strike on syria – with some in congress opposed to even that .
though congress must guard against repeating its disastrous mistake in 2003 , when it supported the war in iraq , the commitment to promote human rights that the us made following september 11 , 1973 , seems a more appropriate standard for weighing obama ’ s proposal for us military action in syria .
maintaining the international prohibition on the use of chemical weapons is an urgent concern .
the assad regime ’ s culp ability for using these weapons is not in doubt .
if the us congress deals with obama ’ s proposal responsibly , and does not yield to those motivated by a partisan desire to embarr ass him at every turn , it will enhance its own claim to recapture the constitutional power to author ize military conflict – a power that has been disregarded more often than not in the past half-century .
a critical part of its role must be to consider with care the limits that should be placed on a punitive strike .
the war in iraq was mis conceived from the start , because it was an attempt to av enge the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks by invading and occupying a country that had no part in them .
obama ’ s proposal to strike syria , by contrast , is an attempt to enforce an important human-rights norm by directly punishing – through means that do not involve invasion and occupation – those who committed a gross violation .
it restor es human rights to the central place in american foreign policy set forth after september 11 , 1973 .
america ’ s constrained choice
newport beach – the conventional wisdom about the november presidential election in the united states is only partly correct .
yes , economic issues will play a large role in determining the outcome .
but the next step in the argument – that the winner of an increasingly ugly contest will have the luxury of pursuing significantly different policies from his opponent – is much more uncertain .
by the time the next presidential term starts in january 2013 , and contrary to the current narratives advanced by the obama and romney campaigns , the incumbent will find himself with limited room for maneuver on economic policy .
indeed , the potential differences for america are elsewhere , and have yet to be adequately understood by voters .
they center on the social policies that would accompany a broadly similar set of economic measures ; and , here , the differences between the candidates are consequential .
whoever wins will face an economy growing at a sluggish 2 % or less next year , with a n agging risk of st alling completely .
unemployment will still be far too high , and almost half of it will be hard-to- solve , long-term joblessness – and even more if we count ( as we should ) the millions of americans who have dropped out of the labor force .
the financial side of the economy will also be a source of concern .
the fiscal deficit will continue to flir t with the 10 % -of-gdp level , adding to worries about the country ’ s medium-term debt dynamics .
and the household sector will be only partly through its painful de- leveraging phase .
the policy front will be equally unsettling .
having di thered and bick ered for too long , the us congress will find it increasingly difficult to postpone action on these challenges .
meanwhile , the federal reserve ’ s unusual activism , including an ever- expanding list of experimental measures , will yield fewer benefits and entail growing costs and risks .
the us economy will also be operating in a more difficult global environment .
in the next few months , europe ’ s debt crisis will most likely worsen .
with emerging economies ( including china ) slowing , and with meaningful multilateral policy coordination remaining inadequate , protectionist pressures will mount as major trading powers compete for a stagnant pie .
so , whether president barack obama or mitt romney prevails in november , the next president will be constrained by the twin need for urgent economic stabilization and longer-term reforms .
and , with headwinds from europe and a synchronized global slowdown , the candidates will have no choice but to pursue , at least initially , similar economic policies to restore dynamic job creation and financial stability .
in striking the right balance between immediate economic stimulus and medium-term fiscal sustainability , the most urgent step will be to counter properly the looming fiscal cliff , as temporary tax cuts expire and deep , across-the-board spending reductions kick in automatically .
failure to do so would significantly increase the risk of an outright american recession .
serious medium-term budget reforms are needed to deal with the legacy of repeated congressional failures .
and , if provided with realistic numbers , the next president will soon recognize that the right mix of tax and spending reforms falls into a much narrower range than today ’ s competing political narratives suggest .
it is certainly not an e i ther /or proposition .
fiscal reforms work best in a dynamic economy .
to this end , obama and romney will need to lift the impediments to growth and job creation .
here again – in areas like housing , the labor market , credit intermediation , and infrastructure – there is less room for maneuver than most politicians would like us to believe .
but this does not mean that there is no scope for differences .
there is , and they reflect the fact that general economic tendencies will be accompanied by multi- speed dynamics at many levels .
from persistent differences in unemployment rates depending on skills and education to record-high income and wealth inequalities , each economic decision will be accompanied by the need for social judgment – whether explicit or , more likely , implicit – regarding its distributional impact .
after an “ age ” of excessive leverage , debt creation , and credit entitlement that culminated in the 2008 global financial crisis , america still faces the tricky challenge of allocating cumulative losses that continuously inhibit investment , jobs , and competitiveness .
until now , congress ’ s excessive political polarization has translated into an approach that has pushed more of the burden of adjustment onto those who are less able to bear it .
in an ideal world , america ’ s next president would rapidly embark on a two- step approach to restoring job dynamism and financial s ound ness .
first , he would devise a comprehensive set of economic-policy initiatives that are both feasible and desirable – and , again , the scope for major differences here is limited .
second , he would accompany this with an explicit set of social policies – and here the potential differences are profound – that addresses the need for equitable burden-sharing .
this is not really an election about such hot ly- debated issues as outsourcing , tax increases versus entitlement reforms , government control of production versus unfettered private sector activity , or job creators versus free rid ers .
it is much more about the accompanying concepts of social fairness , entitlement , equality and , yes , standards of behavior for a rich and civilized society .
this is an election about social responsibility – a society ’ s obligation to support those who are struggling , through no fault of their own , to find jobs and make ends meet .
it is about protecting the most vulnerable segments of society , including by providing them access to proper health coverage .
among the numerous issues of fairness and equality , it is about the rich giving back to a system that has brought them unimaginable wealth .
it is here where the differences between obama and romney are important .
the sooner the campaign debate piv ots to this , the greater the probability that americans will make a more informed choice and , thus , buy into the collective effort needed to escape national malaise .
america ’ s crony capitalism
buenos aires – for 20 years , americans have denounced the “ crony capitalism ” of third world countries , especially in asia .
but , just as those regions have been improving their public and corporate governance – hong kong just witnessed a breakthrough court decision against a telec om tyco on who is the son of the province ’ s richest and most powerful man – crony capitalism is taking root in the united states , a country that the world long considered the gold standard of a level playing field in business .
the recently completed “ stress tests ” of us banks are but the latest indication that crony capitalists have now captured washington , dc .
it is no surprise that stock markets liked the results of the stress tests that us treasury secretary timo thy geithner administered to america ’ s big banks , for the general outcome had been leaked weeks before .
indeed , most professional investors tr ashed the tests as dis honest even as their holdings benefited from a rising market .
even the wall street journal , usually financial markets ’ lou dest cheer leader , openly dispar aged the tests ’ integrity . the government had allowed bankers to “ negotiate ” the results , like a student taking a final examination and then negotiating her grade .
the tests were supposed to reveal the true conditions of banks saddled with un aud ited toxic assets in housing loans and financial derivatives . the reasoning behind the tests seemed un impe ach able .
but was it ?
as any seas oned banker knows , a well- managed bank should undertake internal “ stress tests ” regularly as a matter of good house keeping .
the financial crisis should have mandated a running stress test to keep senior management up to date daily . why , then , did the us need the government to conduct a financial exercise that bankers themselves could and should have done far better and faster ?
the truth is that the tests were not designed to find answers .
both wall street ’ s chief tains and the obama administration already knew the truth .
they knew that if the true conditions at many big banks were publicly revealed , many would have been immediately declared bankrupt , necess itating government rece i ver ship to stop a tsunami of bank runs .
but the obama administration did not want to be t agged as “ socialist ” for nation alizing banks , however temporarily , even though experts such as former us federal reserve chairman paul volcker had recommended just that .
moreover , nation alizing banks would have required dismissing wall street cap tains and their boards for grossly mis managing their firms .
wall street ’ s tit ans , however , had convinced obama and his team that their continued stewardship was essential to getting the world out of its crisis .
they successfully portrayed themselves as victims of a fi restor m , rather than as acc ess ories to ar son .
geithner and larry summers , obama ’ s chief economic advis or , share wall street ’ s culture as prot é g és of robert ru bin , the former treasury secretary who went on to serve as a director and senior counsel or at citigroup . neither man found it difficult to accept the bankers ’ absurd logic .
the stress tests were meant to signal to the public that there was no immediate threat of bank failures .
this message , it was hoped , would stabilize the market so that prices for “ toxic ” assets could rise to a level at which bankers might feel comfortable selling them .
after all , senior bankers had been claiming that these assets were “ mis priced , ” and that pricing them at market levels would penalize the banks unnecessarily .
so far , geithner seems to have succeeded in his “ tests , ” as the stock market has indeed more than stabilized , with prices of bank shares such as citigroup and bank of america quadru pling from their lows .
the feared implosion of wall street seems to have been avoided .
but no one ever seriously thought that the us would allow citigroup and bank of america , to name just two , to fail .
in fact , the stock market bott omed out last winter .
what the world wanted was an accurate picture of what the banks were worth and “ mar k- to -market ” valuations to guide investors as to how much new capital they needed .
the world also wanted to see the us re taking the high road in reinforcing business ethics and integrity – so lacking under the last administration .
as taxpayers had already put huge sums into rescuing failing banks , with the prospect of more to come , a transparent process to reveal how the money was being used was imperative .
substantial public rescue funds have reportedly been si ph oned off to foreign banks , goldman sachs , and staff bonuses for purposes unrelated to protecting public interests .
none of this was either revealed or deb un ked by geithner ’ s tests .
instead , public servants now appear to be in ca ho ots with wall street to engineer an artificial a ura of profitability .
moreover , the value of toxic assets remains as murky as ever .
once sac ros anc t accounting principles have been am ended at wall street ’ s beh est in order to allow banks to report essentially whatever they want .
and now negotiated stress test results have been released to “ prove ” that the banks are a lot healthier .
calling this a pon zi scheme might be too harsh .
but few financial professionals have been fool ed .
meanwhile , wall street chief tains and their boards of directors have nothing to fear from government . on the contrary , they are now the government ’ s partners in a joint venture to manage this dis honest scheme .
like sw ine flu , crony capitalism has migrated from corrupt third world countries to america , once the cit ad el of sound public and private governance .
is it any wonder that china is perceived as an increasingly credible model for much of the developing world , while the us is now viewed as a symbol of hypocrisy and double standards ?
america ’ s dangerous debt ceiling debate
newport beach – it has been raised more than 70 times in the last 50 years , mostly without com motion .
it must be raised again this summer if the united states government is to continue paying its bills on time .
but now america ’ s debt ceiling has become the subject of intense political posturing and tou ch- and- go negotiations behind closed doors . and , obviously , the outcome has implications that go well beyond the us .
as part of america ’ s system of checks and balances , congress gets to do more than just approve the annual federal budget . it also sets a limit on how much debt the us treasury is allowed to issue .
beyond this ceiling , the government can spend only from current revenues .
us treasury secretary timo thy geithner recently informed members of congress that the government will be in this situation on or around august 2 .
having already officially hit the ceiling , the treasury is moving money around and tapping various po ts of unused funds to pay its bills .
in a few weeks , this “ flexibility ” will be used up .
with the us government now borrowing around 40 % of every dollar it spends , a truly binding debt ceiling would immediately force the government to reduce spending radically and in a disorderly fashion .
politicians across the political spectrum know that such a situation would un settle an already fragile us economy , severely weaken the dollar , and raise serious concerns about the country 's ability to meet its debt-service obligations , including to the many foreign creditors that the us will need in the future .
yet , in today ’ s polarized environment in washington , republicans and democrats are unwilling to compromise – or at least to compromise “ too early . ”
by holding out , republicans wish to force president barack obama ’ s administration into massive spending cuts .
democrats respond that such a one- sided approach would be economically harmful and socially unjust .
in the meantime , both sides risk disrupting transfer payments ( including to the elderly ) and the provision of public services , as well as eroding further america ’ s global credit standing .
the most recent precedent was the bipartisan agreement reached earlier this year on another fiscal issue that threatened to disrupt the normal functioning of government : the absence of a formally approved budget for this year .
a compromise would allow both parties to declare partial victory , for it would likely entail commitments to cut spending and some steps to make taxation more socially just .
but , like many last-minute agreements , it would have little durable impact .
in effect , the political system would again be k icking the can down the road , with real progress on necessary fiscal reforms expected only after the november 2012 presidential election .
two scenarios for the timing of an interim compromise are possible , depending on whether it is a one-  or two- step process . most observers expect a one- step process for bipartisan agreement before august 2 .
but politicians may need two steps : an initial failure to agree , and then a quick deal in response to the resulting financial-market conv ul sions .
in the meantime , the treasury would temporarily re- prioritize and slow outgoing payments .
this two- step process would be similar to what happened in 2008 , when congress was confronted with another cli ff h anger : the bush administration ’ s request for $ 700 billion to prevent a financial-market collapse and an economic depression .
congress initially rejected the measure , but a dramatic 7 7 0- point drop in the stock market focused politicians ’ minds , bringing them back to the table – and to agreement .
but the two- step scenario involves incremental risks to the us economy , and to its standing in the global system . and the longer america ’ s politicians take to resolve the debt- ceiling issue , the greater the risk of an inadvert ent accident .
this brings us to a third , and even more unsettling possibility : a longer and more protracted negotiation , resulting in greater disruptions to government entitlement payments , other contractual obligations , and public services .
creditors would then ask many more questions before adding to their already- considerable holdings of us government debt , generating still more headwinds in a us economy that already faces an unemployment crisis and uneven growth .
the next few weeks will provide plenty of political drama .
the baseline expectation , albeit subject to risk , is that democrats and republicans will find a way to avoid disruptions that would damage the fragile us economy , but that the compromise will not meaning fully address the need for sensible medium-term fiscal reforms .
such political paralysis on key economic issues is increasingly unsettling for the us private sector , and for other countries that rely on a strong us at the core of the global economy .
this helps to explain why so many companies continue to ho ard cash , rather than investing domestically , and why a growing number of countries want to diversify gradually away from dependence on the dollar as the reserve currency and on us financial markets for intermediation of their hard- earned savings .
the world economy is hard- wi red to the assumption of a strong america , and americans benefit from this .
but the more their politicians argue over the debt ceiling , the greater the risk that the w iring will become irre par ably fra yed .
america ’ s deepening moral crisis
new york – america ’ s political and economic crisis is set to worsen following the upcoming november elections .
president barack obama will lose any hope for passing progressive legislation aimed at helping the poor or the environment .
indeed , all major legislation and reforms are likely to be stalem ated until 2013 , following a new presidential election .
an already bad situation marked by deadlock and vit ri ol is likely to worsen , and the world should not expect much leadership from a bitterly divided united states .
much of america is in a nasty mood , and the language of compassion has more or less been abandoned .
both political parties serve their rich campaign contributors , while proclaiming that they defend the middle class .
neither party even mentions the poor , who now officially make up 15 % of the population but in fact are even more numerous , when we count all those households struggling with health care , housing , jobs , and other needs .
the republican party recently issued a “ pledge to america ” to explain its beliefs and campaign promises .
the document is filled with nonsense , such as the fat uous claim that high taxes and over- regulation explain america ’ s high unemployment .
it is also filled with propaganda . a quo tation by president john f. kennedy states that high tax rates can strang le the economy , but kennedy ’ s was speaking a half-century ago , when the top marginal tax rates were twice what they are today .
america today presents the paradox of a rich country falling apart because of the collapse of its core values .
american productivity is among the highest in the world .
average national income per person is about $ 4 6,000 – enough not only to live on , but to prosper .
yet the country is in the throes of an ugly moral crisis .
income inequality is at historic highs , but the rich claim that they have no responsibility to the rest of society .
they refuse to come to the aid of the destitu te , and defend tax cuts at every opportunity .
almost everybody compl ains , almost everybody aggressively def ends their own narrow and short-term interests , and almost everybody aband ons any pretense of looking ahead or addressing the needs of others .
what passes for american political debate is a contest between the parties to give bigger promises to the middle class , mainly in the form of budge t- bu sting tax cuts at a time when the fiscal deficit is already more than 10 % of gdp .
americans seem to believe that they have a natural right to government services without paying taxes .
in the american political lex icon , taxes are defined as a denial of liberty .
there was a time , not long ago , when americans talked of ending poverty at home and abroad .
lyndon johnson ’ s war on poverty in the mid- 1960 ’ s reflected an era of national optimism and the belief that society should make collective efforts to solve common problems , such as poverty , pollution , and health care . america in the 1960 ’ s enacted programs to rebuild poor communities , to fight air and water pollution , and to ensure health care for the elderly .
then the deep divisions over vietnam and civil rights , combined with a surge of consum er ism and advertising , seemed to end an era of shared sacrifice for the common good .
for 40 years , compassion in politics rec eded .
ronald reagan gained popularity by cutting social benefits for the poor ( claiming that the poor che ated to receive extra payments ) .
bill clinton continued those cuts in the 1990 ’ s .
today , no politician even da res to mention help for poor people .
the big campaign contributors to both parties pay to ensure that their vested interests dominate political debates .
that means that both parties increasingly defend the interests of the rich , though republicans do so slightly more than democrats .
even a modest tax increase on the rich is unlikely to find support in american politics .
the result of all of this is likely to be a long-term decline of us power and prosperity , because americans no longer invest collectively in their common future .
america will remain a rich society for a long time to come , but one that is increasingly divided and unstable .
fear and propaganda may lead to more us-led international wars , as in the past decade .
and what is happening in america is likely to be repeated elsewhere .
america is vulnerable to social breakdown because it is a highly diverse society .
racism and anti-immigrant sentiments are an important part of the attack on the poor , or at least the reason why so many are willing to heed the propaganda against helping the poor .
as other societies grapple with their own increasing diversity , they may follow the us into crisis .
swe des recently gave enough votes to a right-wing , anti-immigrant party to give it representation in parliament , reflecting a growing backlash against the rising number of immigrants in swedish society .
in france , nicolas sarkozy ’ s government has tried to regain popularity with the working class by de porting roma migrants , a target of widespread hatred and ethnic attacks .
the lesson from america is that economic growth is no guarantee of wellbeing or political stability .
american society has become increasingly harsh , where the richest americans buy their way to political power , and the poor are abandoned to their fate .
in their private lives , americans have become addic ted to consum er ism , which dra ins their time , savings , attention , and inclination to engage in acts of collective compassion .
the world should be ware .
unless we break the ugly trends of big money in politics and rampant consum er ism , we risk winning economic productivity at the price of our humanity .
america ’ s economic stalemate
cambridge – the united states appears trapped in a dangerous economic stalemate . the refusal by both republicans and democrats to give ground on the budget is preventing the government from dealing with its massive fiscal deficit and rapidly rising national debt .
indeed , the congressional budget office projects that the national debt could increase to 82 % of gdp over the next ten years – more than double the debt ratio as recently as 2008 .
that forecast , moreover , is based on quite optimistic assumptions of strong economic growth and low interest rates .
with slower growth and more normal interest rates , the debt ratio could easily rise to more than 100 % in 2021 , and exceed 150 % by 2030 .
a major reason for the accelerating growth in government debt is america ’ s rapidly aging population and the resulting increase in the cost of the universal pension and health-care programs – social security and medicare .
most experts believe that limiting the rise in debt will require slowing the growth of these “ entitlement ” programs and increasing taxes as a share of gdp .
but president barack obama and the congressional democrats oppose any reduction in future entitlement programs , while the republican presidential candidates and their party ’ s congressional delegation oppose any increase in tax revenues .
the result is the current stalemate in reducing the fiscal deficit and reversing the growth of the national debt .
republicans argue that the national debt ’ s growth should be limited only by cutting government spending .
although some cuts in traditional outlays should be part of efforts to rein in spending , this approach should be supplemented by reducing “ tax expenditures ” – the special features of the tax code that subsidize health care , mortgage borrowing , local-government taxes , et c ..
limiting tax expenditures could reduce the annual deficit by as much as 2 % of gdp , thereby reducing the debt-to-gdp ratio in 2021 by more than 25 percentage points .
republicans generally reject this form of spending reduction , because it results in additional tax revenue .
while this method does indeed increase total revenue , the economic effect of limiting tax expenditures is the same as it is under any other method of cutting spending on those programs .
but the republicans ’ opposition to anything that raises revenue means that this key to breaking the budget stalemate won ’ t be implemented .
the budget cost of social security pensions could be gradually reduced by substitu ting annu ities generated by investment- based personal retirement accounts for part of the current tax- financed benefits .
but even though such a reform could maintain income levels for retirees , democrats oppose it , because it lowers traditional government benefits .
this reinforces the stalemate .
the two parties ’ hardline stances anticipate the upcoming congressional and presidential elections in november 2012 .
the republicans , in effect , face the voters with a sign that says , “ we won ’ t raise your taxes , but the democrats will . ”
the democrats ’ sign , by contrast , says , “ we won ’ t reduce your pension or health benefits , but the republicans will . ”
neither side wants any ambiguity in their message before the election , thus ruling out the possibility of any immediate changes in tax expenditures or future social security pensions .
but , for the same reason , i am optimistic that the stalemate will end after the election .
at that point , both republicans and democrats will be able to accept reforms that they must reject now .
official analyses down play the effect of lower marginal tax rates on taxable income , but experience shows that taxable income rises substantially as taxpayers respond to lower marginal rates by working more , taking more of their compensation in taxable cash than in fringe benefits , and reducing their tax- deduc tible consumption .
reducing tax expenditures while lowering marginal tax rates can produce substantial revenue by increasing the level of taxable income .
the current economic stalemate is troubling , because financial markets could react adversely , and because delays in addressing the fiscal deficit means a higher national debt .
i may be too optimistic , but i think there is good reason to believe that the current budget stalemate reflects election posturing , and that the us political system will prove more effective at making progress on fiscal consolidation once the election is past .
america ’ s election and the global economy
stanford – as america ’ s elections approach , with president barack obama slightly in front of his republican challenger , former massachusetts governor mitt romney , poll sters still rate the races for control of the presidency and the united states senate too close to call , with the house of representatives likely to remain in republican hands .
the differences between the candidates are considerable , and highly consequential for american economic policy and the global economy , although enactment of their programs will depend on the ma keup of congress .
the most important differences between the two candidates can be summar ized as follows :
spending .
obama has dramatically increased spending .
he would likely continue many of his temporary programs ( as milton friedman once observed , “ there is nothing so permanent as a temporary government program . ” ) ; double down on having government pick winners and losers in green energy ; expand spending on education and infrastructure ; and substantially reduce defense expenditures .
romney , by contrast , favors limiting overall federal spending , currently 24 % of gdp , to 20 % , and keeping defense at 4 % .
he wants private markets , not government , to choose winning firms and technologies .
democrats oppose most non defense spending cuts , arguing that reductions would cause the economy to contract .
that case is strongest if the spending reductions are large and abrupt in a weak economy .
if phased in over a multi-year period as the economy recovers , as romney proposes , thrift would likely be expansionary .
for example , federal spending relative to gdp fell by five percentage points from the mid- 1980 ’ s to the late 1990 ’ s in the us , and by an even larger margin in recent decades in canada – that is , through periods of strong economic growth .
taxes .
obama would raise the top marginal tax rates on wages , capital gains , dividends , interest , and est ates , especially on higher- income individuals and small businesses .
yet he has never proposed comprehensive reform of either the personal or corporate income tax .
by contrast , romney would reduce america ’ s corporate tax rate ( the highest in the oecd ) to 25 % and tax american multinationals on a territorial , rather than a worldwide , basis in order to increase their tax competitiveness . he would also lower personal tax rates by 20 % , and make up lost revenue by limiting tax deductions and credits , particularly at the upper end , thereby raising about 18 .5 % of gdp , just above the historical average , at full employment .
romney ’ s fiscal plan thus reduces deficits sufficiently to decrease the debt-to-gdp ratio . he favors a bal anc ed- budget amendment to the constitution , and hopes to balance the budget over eight years .
obama , by contrast , would run larger deficits – his spending increase is much larger than his tax increase – which imply large tax hikes in the future .
moreover , he would run far larger debt ratios than romney , because the main driver of the debt is entitlement spending .
entitlements .
obama has remained silent about reform of medicare and social security , whose long-run deficits are several times the national debt .
vice president joe biden has even said that “ no changes ” to social security are to be made .
romney supports gradually increasing retirement ages , a premi um- support model for medicare , and shifting medicaid ( health insurance for the poor ) to the states via block grants .
the obama campaign is pum mel ing romney on medicare , and the romney campaign is ham mering obama for his refusal to negotiate or even propose a solution .
some observers suggest that obama ’ s un spoken plan is ever- growing entitlements eventually paid for by a european- style value-added tax .
trade .
obama is the first us president in a long time who has not played a leading role on global trade liberalization .
the doha round of global trade talks remains stalled , and obama delayed the three bilateral free-trade agreements that awaited approval when he came into office .
romney is a pro ponent of free trade , but has said that he would be tougher on china ’ s trade practices and currency policies .
regulation .
obama wants to expand federal comman d- and- control regulation further ( though the courts have stopped his extension of some regulatory powers ) .
romney v ows an economically balanced approach that would reform obama ’ s major health-care , environmental , and financial-services regulations .
appointments .
every us president ap points thousands of officials , many with considerable power .
romney has said that he would not re appoint ben bernanke as fed chairman ( likely candidates : economists gl en n hu b b ard , gre g man ki w , john taylor , and martin feld stein ) .
other presidential appointees exert considerable influence on firms , industries , or the entire economy .
for example , obama ’ s appointees to the obscure national labor relations board tried to prevent bo eing from expanding in south carolina , despite the state ’ s anti- union “ right to work ” legislation .
these policies would affect us economic growth , the budget deficit , national saving , and hence global trade and capital flows .
with larger deficits under obama than under romney , america would need more capital from europe , latin america , and asia , while higher taxes and debt would impede us growth and thus undermine these regions ’ exports .
obama would steer america in the direction of european social-welfare states ; romney ’ s agenda is designed to prevent that .
whoever wins , a fiscal cliff looms at the end of 2012 .
previous legislation , if not reversed , will lead to large abrupt tax hikes and spending cuts , which the congressional budget office forecasts would likely cause a recession in 2013 .
while a post-election , lam e- duck session of congress will address the fiscal cliff , the deep differences between republicans and democrats on taxes and spending remain wide and difficult to bridge .
with uncertainty pl agu ing europe ’ s finances and china slowing , the last thing the global economy needs is a stagnant or shrinking us economy .
but it will take strong leadership by the president-elect to avoid it .
america ’ s exceptional fiscal conservatism
washington , dc – in most countries , to be “ fiscally conservative ” means to worry a great deal about the budget deficit and debt levels – and to push these issues to the top of the policy agenda .
in many eurozone countries today , “ fiscal conservatives ” are a powerful group , insisting on the need to boost government revenue while bringing spending under control .
in great britain , too , leading conservatives have recently proved willing to raise taxes and attempted to limit future spending .
the united states is very different in this respect .
there , leading politicians who choose to call themselves “ fiscal conservatives ” – such as paul ryan , now the republican party ’ s presumptive vice- presidential nominee to run alongside presidential candidate mitt romney in november ’ s election – care more about cutting taxes , regardless of the effect on the federal deficit and total outstanding debt .
why do us fiscal conservatives care so little about government debt , relative to their counterparts in other countries ?
it has not always been this way .
eisenhower declined , partly because he did not particularly like or trust nixon , but mostly because he thought it was important to hand over a more nearly balanced budget to his successor .
the framework for us macroeconomic policy changed dramatically when the international monetary system broke down in 1971 .
the us could no longer maintain a fixed exchange rate between the dollar and gold – the cornerstone of the postwar bretton woods system .
the arrangement collapsed because the us did not want to tighten monetary policy and run more restrictive fiscal policy : keeping us voters happy was understandably more important to president nixon than maintaining a global system of fixed exchange rates .
ironically , however , rather than undermining the pre dominant international role of the us dollar , the end of bretton woods actually boosted its use around the world .
much has been written , and many hands wr ung , about the dollar ’ s decline over the last four decades , but the fact remains that holdings of us dollar assets by foreigners today are vastly greater than they were in 1971 .
this turns out to be a mixed blessing , because it has allowed the us to become less careful about its fiscal accounts .
foreigners now hold roughly half of all us federal government debt , and they are willing to hold it when it yields a very low return in dollars ( and even when the dollar depreci ates ) .
in fact , whenever the world looks unstable , investors want to hold more dollar assets – even when the us is the cause of the instability .
when big us banks are in trouble or americans are having another debilitating political fight over their public finances , global investors scramble into us treasuries .
last year ’ s congressional showdown over the federal debt ceiling may have cost the us its a aa sovereign rating with standard & poor ’ s , but the federal government ’ s borrowing costs are actually lower now than they were then .
what has america done with this opportunity – arguably the low est- cost funding in the history of humankind ?
not much , in terms of productive investment , strengthening education , or maintaining essential infrastructure .
but the us has done a great deal in terms of adopting tax cuts that boost consumption relative to income and lower government revenue relative to expenditure .
this is the lasting legacy of the “ temporary ” tax cuts adopted by george w. bush ’ s administration in the early 2000 ’ s .
and americans have shifted greatly toward political philosoph ies – on the right and on the left – that regard public debt merely as a distraction . or , as former vice president dick cheney put it , “ reagan taught us that deficits do not matter ” – meaning that ronald reagan cut taxes , ran bigger deficits , and did not suffer any adverse political consequences .
ryan and members of the tea party wing of the republican party undoubtedly want to cut the size of the federal government , and they have articulated plans to do this over several decades .
but , in the near term , what they promise is primarily tax cuts : their entire practical program is front-loaded in that direction .
the calculation is that this will prove politically popular ( probably true ) while making it easier to implement spending cuts down the road ( less obvious ) .
the vulnerability caused by higher public debt over the next few decades is simply ignored .
for example , ryan supported george w. bush ’ s spending spree .
he also supports maintaining defense spending at or near its current level – resisting the cuts that were put in place under the budget control act of 2011 .
the assumption here – un stated and highly questionable – is that the us will be able to sell an unlimited amount of government debt at low interest rates for the foreseeable future .
there is no other country in the world where fiscal conservatives would want to be associated with such a high- stakes gamble .
america ’ s failed militarized foreign policy
many of today ’ s war zones – including afghanistan , ethiopia , iran , iraq , pakistan , somalia , and sudan – share basic problems that lie at the root of their conflicts .
they are all poor , buff eted by natural disasters – especially floods , droughts , and earthquakes – and have rapidly growing populations that are pressing on the capacity of the land to feed them .
and the proportion of youth is very high , with a bul ging population of young men of military age ( 15- 24 years ) .
all of these problems can be solved only through long-term sustainable economic development .
it backs the ethi opian army in somalia .
it occup ies iraq and afghanistan .
it threatens to bomb iran .
it supports the military dictatorship in pakistan .
none of these military actions addresses the problems that led to conflict in the first place .
on the contrary , american policies typically infl ame the situation rather than solve it .
time and again , this military approach comes back to ha unt the us .
the us embraced the shah of iran by sending massive arm am ents , which fell into the hands of iran ’ s revolutionary government after 1979 .
the us then backed saddam hussein in his attack on iran , until the us ended up attacking saddam himself .
the us backed osama bin laden in afghanistan against the soviets , until the us ended up fighting bin laden .
since 2001 the us has supported pervez musharraf in pakistan with more than $ 10 billion in aid , and now faces an unstable regime that just barely survives .
us foreign policy is so ineffective because it has been taken over by the military .
even postwar reconstruction in iraq under the us-led occupation was run by the pentagon rather than by civilian agencies .
the us military budget dominates everything about foreign policy .
adding up the budgets of the pentagon , the iraq and afghanistan wars , the department of homeland security , nuclear weapons programs , and the state department ’ s military assistance operations , the us will spend around $ 800 billion this year on security , compared with less than $ 20 billion for economic development .
in a stunning article on aid to pakistan during the bush administration , cr aig co hen and der ek chol let demonstrated the disastrous nature of this militarized approach – even before the tot tering musharraf regime ’ s latest crackdown .
they show that even though pakistan faces huge problems of poverty , population , and environment , 75 % of the $ 10 billion in us aid has gone to the pakistani military , ostensibly to re im bur se pakistan for its contribution to the “ war on terror , ” and to help it buy f- 16 s and other weapons systems .
another 16 % went straight to the pakistani budget , no questions asked .
that left less than 10 % for development and humanitarian assistance .
annual us aid for education in pakistan has amounted to just $ 64 million , or $ 1. 16 per school- aged child .
the authors note that “ the strategic direction for pakistan was set early by a narrow circle at the top of the bush administration and has been largely focused on the war effort rather than on pakistan ’ s internal situation . ”
they also emphasize that “ us engagement with pakistan is highly militarized and centralized , with very little reaching the vast majority of pakistanis . ”
they quote george bush as saying , “ when [ musharraf ] looks me in the eye and say s … there won ’ t be a taliban and won ’ t be al-qaeda , i believe him , you know ? ”
this militarized approach is leading the world into a downward spiral of violence and conflict .
each new us weapons system “ sold ” or given to the region increases the chances of expanded war and further military coups , and to the chance that the arms will be turned on the us itself .
none of it helps to address the underlying problems of poverty , child mortality , water scarcity , and lack of livelihoods in places like pakistan ’ s northwest frontier province , sudan ’ s darfur region , or somalia .
these places are bul ging with people facing a tightening squeeze of insufficient rainfall and degraded past u rel ands .
naturally , many join radical causes .
the bush administration fails to recognize these fundamental demographic and environmental challenges , that $ 800 billion of security spending won ’ t bring irrigation to afghanistan , pakistan , sudan , and somalia , and therefore won ’ t bring peace .
a more peaceful world will be possible only when americans and others begin to see things through the eyes of their supposed enemies , and realize that today ’ s conflicts , having resulted from desperation and despair , can be solved through economic development rather than war .
we will have peace when we heed the words of president john f. kennedy , who said , a few months before his death , “ for , in the final analysis , our most basic common link is that we all in habit this small planet . we all breathe the same air .
we all cher ish our children ’ s future . and we are all mortal . ”
america ’ s financial levi athan
berkeley – in 1950 , finance and insurance in the united states accounted for 2.8 % of gdp , according to us department of commerce estimates .
by 1960 , that share had grown to 3.8 % of gdp , and reached 6 % of gdp in 1990 .
today , it is 8. 4 % of gdp , and it is not shrinking .
the wall street journal ’ s just in la hart reports that the 2010 share was higher than the previous peak share in 2006 .
la hart goes on to say that growth in the finan ce- and- insurance share of the economy has “ not , by and large , been a bad thing ... . deploying capital to the places where it can be best used helps the economy grow ... ”
but if the us were getting good value from the extra 5.6 % of gdp that it is now spending on finance and insurance – the extra $ 750 billion diverted annually from paying people who make directly useful goods and provide directly useful services – it would be obvious in the statistics .
at a typical 5 % annual real interest rate for risky cash flows , diverting that large a share of resources away from goods and services directly useful this year is a good bargain only if it boosts overall annual economic growth by 0.3 % – or 6 % per 25- year generation .
there have been many shocks to the us economy over the past couple of generations , and many factors have added to or sub tracted from economic growth .
but it is not obvious that the us economy today would be 6 % less productive if it had had the finan ce- insurance system of 1950 rather than the one that prevailed during the past 20 years .
there are five ways that an economy gains from a well-functioning finan ce- insurance system .
first , people are no longer as vulnerable to the effects of fires , floods , medical disasters , unemployment , business collapses , sectoral shifts , and so forth , because a well- working finan ce- insurance system diversi fies and thus dissip ates some risks , and deals with others by matching those who fear risk with those who can comfortably bear it .
while it might be true that america ’ s current finan ce- insurance system better distribu tes risk in some sense , it is hard to see how that could be the case , given the experience of investors in equities and housing over the past two decades .
second , well-functioning financial systems match large , illiquid investment projects with the relatively small pools of money contributed by individual savers who value liquidity highly .
there has been one important innovation over the past two generations : businesses can now issue high- yield bonds .
but , given the costs of the bankruptcy process , it has never been clear why a business would rather issue high- yield bonds ( besides gam ing the tax system ) , or why investors would rather buy them than take an equity stake .
third , improved opportunities to borrow allow one to spend more now , when one is poor , and save more later , when one is rich .
households are certainly much more able to borrow , thanks to home- equity loans , credit- card balances , and pay day loans .
but what are they really buying ?
many are not buying the ability to spend when they are poor and save when they are rich , but instead appear to be buying postpon ement of the “ unpleasant financial retrenchment ” talk with the other members of their household .
and that is not something you want to buy .
fourth , we have seen major improvements in the ease of transactions .
but , while electronic transactions have made a great deal of financial life much easier , this should have been accompanied by a decrease , not an increase , in the finance share of gdp , just as automated switching in telecommunications led to a decrease in the number of telephone swit ch board operators per phone call .
indeed , the operations of those parts of the financial system most closely related to technological improvements have s lim med down markedly : consider what has happened to the checking operations of the regional federal reserve banks .
finally , better finance should mean better corporate governance .
since shareholder democracy does not provide effective control over entrenched , runaway , self- indul g ent management , finance has a potentially powerful role to play in ensuring that corporate managers work in the interest of shareholders .
overall , however , it remains disturbing that we do not see the obvious large benefits , at either the micro or macro level , in the us economy ’ s efficiency that would justify spending an extra 5.6 % of gdp every year on finance and insurance .
la hart cites the conclusion of new york university ’ s thomas philipp on that today ’ s us financial sector is out sized by two percentage points of gdp .
and it is very possible that philipp on ’ s estimate of the size of the us financial sector ’ s hyper tro ph y is too small .
why has the devo tion of a great deal of skill and enterprise to finance and insurance sector not paid obvious economic dividends ?
there are two sustainable ways to make money in finance : find people with risks that need to be carried and match them with people with unused risk- bearing capacity , or find people with such risks and match them with people who are clu eless but who have money .
are we sure that most of the growth in finance stems from a rising share of financial professionals who undertake the former rather than the latter ?
america ’ s fiscal isolationism
denver – patience might be a virtue , but not necessarily when it comes to american foreign policy .
consider “ the long war , ” a bold concept embraced a few years ago to describe the continuing struggle against terrorism , the grudg ing progress that could realistically be achieved , and the enormous financial burden that it would impose for years to come .
it was also a realpolitik acknowledgement of the setbacks to be expected along the way ( the “ slo g , ” as then defense secretary donald rumsfeld put it ) .
above all , the term was an effort to communicate to americans , accustomed to waging war with speed and decis iveness ( and insist ent on it since vietnam ) , the long-term sacrifice and commitment needed to win a war of survival .
its proponents also understood that the war would not be limited to weapons , but would need to be a sustained effort , involving , as they put it , the “ whole of government , ” with civilian agencies marsh aled behind military – or param il itary – objectives .
daunting as the effort would be , its advocates assumed a sustainable political consensus to support it .
after all , the united states had been attacked .
today , that consensus is unraveling as america ’ s politicians wrest le with a federal budget that is itself turning into a long war – one with its own casualties .
the battle lines in this struggle suggest that there is little accord among political elites for any spending , let alone for a long war with far- fl ung commitments .
as a result , basic assumptions are being questioned at every turn .
indeed , the current budget war seems to be re opening old divisions about america ’ s view of itself and the world .
the outcome is far from certain , but even isolationism , a per ennial american mal ady , seems to be making a comeback .
isolationism is a familiar refrain in us foreign policy among those elements of the right that consider the us too good for the world , as well as among those on the left who consider america a destructive global force .
but this time , as perhaps never before , a bipartisan isolationist impulse is being driven by the budget .
america ’ s fiscal crisis is profound , and it is not just about numbers .
as the emotions in washington today suggest , the aversion to tax increases runs far deeper than concern about their effect on current economic performance and job growth .
in part , it represents a fundamental – some would say fundamentalist – view that taxes are to government what a bottle of whis ky is to an alcohol ic .
government , as ronald reagan told us , is the problem , not the solution .
that message is bad news for american diplomacy .
the link age between politicians ’ unwillingness to fund domestic programs and the imper iled commitment to “ the long war ” might el ude those in us foreign-policy circles , but it is not lost on the rest of the country .
opinion surveys suggest that americans want to maintain many of the “ discretionary ” domestic programs – schools , hospitals , transportation infrastructure , recre ational parks , etc . – that are now on the ch opping block in budget negotiations .
in places like rural el pas o county , on the eastern pl ains of color ado , far from the federal budget debate ’ s epicenter , spending cuts are the order of the day .
these cuts are having a very real and immediate impact on el pas o county ’ s residents .
can they , and other americans who are losing vital services , really be expected to rise above it all and support funding to build new schools in afghanistan ?
not only are america ’ s public schools starting to look second- rate , but so is its infrastructure , which had long been a source of national pride .
how many travelers nowadays can fail to note the difference between asia ’ s new , efficient airports and the aging , clo gged antiqu es in some major us cities ?
the budget war is not producing any consensus on fixing america ’ s infrastructure , but it is beginning to produce a view that afghanistan and pakistan are far from being core us national interests .
why , people ask , are schools and roads in afghanistan and iraq more important than those in color ado or california ?
at one point in 2008 , the us military picked up the cost of trans porting a tiger for the baghdad zo o .
when was the last time the us government did that for a us zo o ( outside of washington , of course ) ?
how this debate sorts itself out will have profound consequences for how america conduc ts itself in the world .
but it might also take a toll on how the world re acts to america ’ s fastest-growing export : un sol ic ited advice .
countries take others ’ advice for many reasons .
sometimes they respect the adviser ’ s wisdom and insights ( fairly rare in diplomacy ) .
or they might fear the consequences of not taking the advice ( an offer one can not refuse , so to speak ) .
or , as is true of many of america ’ s diplomatic transactions , accepting advice could open the way to a better relationship and to additional assistance .
in short , diplomacy – and us diplomacy , in particular – often involves money .
but what if there is no money to offer ?
what if americans , tired of the budget cuts in their neighborhoods , refuse to support funds even for “ the long war ” ?
at that point , senior us officials might well arrive in a country , offer advice , and find that nobody is bo thering to listen .
learning from america ’ s forgotten default
los angeles – one of the most pervasive myths about the united states is that the federal government has never defaulted on its debts .
every time the debt ceiling is debated in congress , politicians and journalists dust off a common tro pe : the us doesn ’ t stiff its creditors .
there ’ s just one problem : it ’ s not true .
there was a time , decades ago , when the us behaved more like a “ ban ana republic ” than an advanced economy , restructuring debts unilaterally and retro actively .
and , while few people remember this critical period in economic history , it holds valuable lessons for leaders today .
in april 1933 , in an effort to help the us escape the great depression , president franklin roosevelt announced plans to take the us off the gold standard and devalue the dollar .
but this would not be as easy as f dr calculated .
most debt contracts at the time included a “ gold clause , ” which stated that the debtor must pay in “ gold coin ” or “ gold equivalent . ”
these clauses were introduced during the civil war as a way to protect investors against a possible inflationary surge .
for f dr , however , the gold clause was an obstacle to devaluation .
to solve this problem , congress passed a joint resolution on june 5 , 1933 , ann ul ling all gold clauses in past and future contracts .
the door was opened for devaluation – and for a political fight .
republicans were dis ma yed that the country ’ s reputation was being put at risk , while the roosevelt administration argued that the resolution didn ’ t amount to “ a repudiation of contracts . ”
on january 30 , 193 4 , the dollar was officially de valued .
the price of gold went from $ 20 . 67 an ounce – a price in effect since 18 34 – to $ 35 an ounce .
not surprisingly , those holding securities protected by the gold clause claimed that the abrog ation was un constitutional .
lawsuits were filed , and four of them eventually reached the supreme court ; in january 193 5 , justices heard two cases that referred to private debts , and two concerning government obligations .
the underlying question in each case was essentially the same : did congress have the authority to alter contracts retro actively ?
on february 18 , 193 5 , the supreme court announced its decisions .
in each case , justices ruled 5- 4 in favor of the government – and against investors seeking compensation .
according to the majority opinion , the roosevelt administration could invoke “ necessity ” as a justification for ann ul ling contracts if it would help free the economy from the great depression .
justice james clar k m cre yn olds , a southern lawyer who was us attorney general during president woodrow wilson ’ s first term , wrote the diss enting opinion – one for all four cases . in a brief speech , he talked about the sanc ti ty of contracts , government obligations , and repudiation under the gu ise of law .
he ended his presentation with strong words : “ shame and humiliation are upon us now . moral and financial chaos may be confidently expected . ”
most americans have forgotten this episode , as collective am nes ia has pap ered over an event that contradicts the image of a country where the rule of law prevails and contracts are sacred .
but good lawyers still remember it ; today , the 193 5 ruling is invoked when attor neys are defending countries in default ( like venezuela ) .
and , as more governments face down new debt- related dangers – such as unfunded liabilities associated with pension and health-care obligations – we may see the argument surface even more frequently .
according to recent estimates , the us government ’ s unfunded liabilities are a staggering 2 60 % of gdp – and that does not include conventional federal debt and unfunded state and local government liabilities .
nor is this a problem only for america ; in many countries , pension and health- related liabilities are increasing , while the ability to cover them is diminishing .
a key question , then , is whether governments seeking to adjust contracts retro actively may once again invoke the legal argument of “ necessity . ”
the 1933 abrog ation of the gold clause provides abundant legal and economic reasons to consider this possibility .
the us supreme court agreed with the “ necessity ” argument once before .
it is not far-fetched to think that it may happen again .
the m add ening of america
boston – the relative global decline of the united states has become a frequent topic of debate in recent years .
proponents of the post- american view point to the 2008 financial crisis , the prolonged recession that followed , and china ’ s steady rise .
most are inter national- relations experts who , viewing geopolitics through the lens of economic competitiveness , imagine the global order as a se es aw , in which one player ’ s rise necessarily implies another ’ s fall .
but the exclusive focus on economic indicators has prevented consideration of the geopolitical implications of a us domestic trend that is also frequently discussed , but by a separate group of experts : america ’ s ever-increasing rates of severe mental disease ( which have already been very high for a long time ) .
the claim that the spread of severe mental illness has reached “ epidemic ” proportions has been heard so often that , like any commonplace , it has lost its ability to shock .
but the repercussions for international politics of the disab ling conditions diagnosed as man ic- depressive illnesses ( including major unipolar depression ) and sch iz oph ren ia could not be more serious .
indeed , the most common of these illnesses , unipolar depression , is the least complex in terms of its symptoms , but also the most lethal : 20 % of depressed patients are estimated to commit suicide .
both man ic- depressive illness and sch iz oph ren ia are psycho tic conditions , characterized by the patient ’ s loss of control over his or her actions and thoughts , a recur rent state in which s/ he can not be considered an agent with free will .
obs essive suicidal thinking and paralyzing lack of motivation allow depressed patients to be classified as psycho tic as well .
these conditions are often accompanied by elaborate delu sions – images of reality that confuse information generated in the mind with that provided from outside .
often the distinction between symbols and their refer ents is lost , and patients begin seeing people solely as represent ations of some imagined force .
the judgment of such people can not be trusted , to put it mil dly .
a massive statistical study , conducted from 2001 to 2003 by the us national institute of mental health ( nim h ) , estimated the lifetime prevalence of major depression among american adults ( ages 18- 54 ) at more than 16 % .
lifetime prevalence for sch iz oph ren ia was estimated at 1.7 % .
there is no known cure for these chronic diseases ; after onset ( often before the age of 18 ) , they are likely to last until the end of the patient ’ s life .
surveys among us college students estimated that 20 % fit criteria for depression and anxiety in 2010 , and that nearly 25 % fit these criteria in 2012 .
other studies have consistently shown rising rates of prevalence with each successive generation , and it is argued that , if older statistics were faulty , they er red on the side of under estimating the spread of mental illness .
all of this suggests that as many as 20 % of american adults may be severely mentally ill .
in view of disputes over the significance of available data , let ’ s assume that only 10 % of american adults are severely mentally ill .
as these conditions are presumed to be distributed uni form ly within the population , they must afflic t a significant share of policymakers , corporate executives , educators , and military personnel of all ranks , recurr ently rendering them psycho tic , delu sional , and deprived of sound judgment .
if it is deemed sens ati onal ist to characterize this situation as terrifying , one may add that a much larger share of the population ( estimated at close to 50 % in the nim h study ) is affected by less severe forms of mental disease that only occasionally distur b their func tionality .
comparative epidemi ologists have repeatedly noticed something remarkable about these illnesses : only western countries ( or , more precisely , societies with mon o the istic traditions ) – particularly prosperous western countries – are subject to prevalence rates of this magnitude .
southeast asian countries appear to be especially immune to the bane of severe mental illness ; in other regions , poverty , or lack of development , seems to offer a protective barrier .
as i argue in my recent book mind , modernity , madness , the reason for high concentrations of severe mental illness in the developed west lies in the very nature of western societies .
the “ virus ” of depression and sch iz oph ren ia , including their mil der forms , is cultural in origin : the embarrassment of choices that these societies offer in terms of self- definition and personal identity leaves many of their members dis oriented and ad rift .
the us offers the wid est scope for personal self- definition ; it also leads the world in judg ment- impa iring disease .
unless the growing prevalence of serious psych op ath ology is taken seriously and addressed effectively , it is likely to become the only indicator of american leadership .
the rise of china is unrelated to this .
obama ’ s under achieving foreign policy
paris – to evaluate an american president ’ s foreign-policy performance after one term is challenging , given the complex diplomatic and strategic environment and significant domestic constraints that confront every us president .
nevertheless , in advance of november ’ s presidential election , it is important to distinguish the forces that have shaped barack obama ’ s foreign policy , and to assess his handling of them .
obama kept his promise to withdraw american forces from iraq during his first term .
but the move proved to be a strategic defeat , given that it significantly diminished the united states ’ political influence in iraq .
indeed , prime minister nour i al- maliki ’ s government is becoming increasingly allied with iran .
obama , who opposed the iraq war , should not be blamed for current circumstances there .
in contrast , obama expanded the war in afghanistan – which he considered to be a war of necessity – and put the taliban on the defensive .
but the us will begin to withdraw troops after 2014 , without having defined a political solution in line with its interests .
meanwhile , america ’ s strategic partnership with pakistan , where obama won a significant symbolic victory by eliminating osama bin laden , is in tat ters .
us- pakistan relations have reg ressed to their level before september 11 , 2001 , with mutual distrust minimizing cooperation .
in fact , in all of the strategic challenges to us security that obama inherited – iran , north korea , iraq , afghanistan , pakistan , and the israeli-palestinian conflict – he has made virtually no significant political gains .
notwithstanding obama ’ s skillful response to the arab spring – the only strategic surprise that he has faced as president – his credibility in the muslim world has steadily declined .
he has failed to deliver on the key promise of his cairo speech in 2009 : “ to seek a new beginning between the united states and muslims around the world . ”
moreover , obama ’ s efforts to improve relations with russia – embodied in the strategic arms reduction treaty ( start ) – did not lead to a genuine “ reset ” in bilateral ties , largely because an increasingly soviet- style russian leadership distr u sts a us establishment that still regards russia as a foe .
and the us-china relationship has deteriorated , with america seeking to manage china ’ s rise strategically – for example , through regional trade agreements and an enhanced military presence in asia .
on multilateral issues , obama ’ s performance is equally un impressive .
after committing to a 17 % reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by 2020 – and despite his declaration that he would not tolerate inaction in this area – he simply stopped raising the issue after the republicans ’ sweeping victory in the november 2010 mid-term elections .
likewise , domestic pressure has caused obama to neglect trade issues .
the us is largely responsible for the failure of the doha round of global trade talks .
obama ’ s one significant foreign-policy breakthrough has been to release the us from the grip of the “ global war on terror . ”
jet tis oning the man ic he an rhetoric of that “ war ” allowed the us to regain the political legitimacy that former president george w. bush had lost , without diminishing its strategic credibility .
after the vietnam war , jimmy carter hoped to make a break with established us policy .
but his administration ’ s actions – including serious blunders in iran and afghanistan – made the us appear weak and in decisive .
while obama ’ s policies have not weakened america ’ s international standing , they also have not led to achievements comparable to richard nixon ’ s rapprochement with china , largely owing to what might be described as the dog matic pragmatism that underlies them – an emphasis on avoiding the worst , rather than on striving for the best .
moreover , obama has been confronted with significant constraints , including the global economic crisis , domestic political polarization , a hostile congress , and the rise of emerging powers that need the us but are unwilling to accept its dominance .
as a result , he has failed to change strategic realities by , for example , reconciling america ’ s broader interests with those of iran ( a declared enemy ) , pakistan ( a “ fren emy ” ) , and israel ( a key ally ) .
to be sure , obama faces a more complex diplomatic and strategic environment than nixon faced in the 1970 ’ s .
unstable coalitions in iran prevent any substantive negotiations between the two countries , while political fragmentation in pakistan significantly hin ders us policy there .
and the fragility of israel ’ s ruling coalition , combined with strong congressional support for prime minister binyamin netanyahu , makes it difficult to influence the country ’ s policies , despite israel ’ s significant impact on us strategy in the arab world .
but obama has also struggled to define the terms of a possible grand bargain .
any agreement with iran would require consent from israel and the gulf countries , which do not share the same objectives .
and the us can not reach an accord with pakistan without india ’ s consent , which america would be unable to force , especially given that it relies on india to counterbalance china ’ s growing clout in asia .
with israel , the terms are ostensibly simpler : in exchange for a stronger us security guarantee , israel would accept the establishment of a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders .
but israel is also a crucial domestic political topic in the us ; indeed , any dist ancing from israel is unacceptable to most americans .
while obama ’ s first term could not be called a foreign-policy disappointment , his achievements – although not trivial – have been limited .
america ’ s grou ch o marx ists
london – grou ch o marx has always been my favorite marxist .
one of his jo kes goes to the heart of the failure of the ideology – the dog matic religion – inflicted on our poor world by his nam es ake , karl .
“ who are you going to believe , ” grou ch o once asked , “ me , or your own eyes ? ”
for hundreds of millions of citizens in commun ist- run countries in the twentieth century , the “ me ” in the question was a dictator or oligarchy ruling with totalitarian or authoritarian powers .
it didn ’ t matter what you could see with your own eyes . you had to accept what you were told the world was like .
reality was whatever the ruling party said it was .
the designated successor to mao zedong in china , hua gu of en g , raised this attitude to an art form . he was known as a “ what ever ist . ”
the party and people should faith fully follow whatever mao instructed them to do .
grou ch o posed two in super able problems for the “ what ever ists ” of communism . first , your own eyes and your reason would surely tell you before long that the communist id y ll – the with ering away of the state and the triumph over need – would never come .
communism , like the horizon , was always just beyond reach .
it would be interesting to know how many of those at beijing ’ s central party school – the party ’ s main educational institute – believe that the chinese state is about to wi ther away , or ever will .
the second application of grou ch o ’ s question was that citizens of most communist countries soon learned that the loss of freedom that they suffered was not compensated by greater prosperity or a higher quality of life .
the more that russians , poles , cz ech s , and others saw of the life- style in the western democracies , the more they questioned their own system .
in his mag ist erial book the rise and fall of communism , arch ie brown notes how travel abroad opened mikhail gorbachev ’ s eyes to the failure of the system that he had lived under all his life .
so , in the political sphere , reason has trum ped both faith in an un attainable goal and self- delusion about the consequences of its pursuit .
authoritarian par ty- states , such as china and vietnam , survive , but not through commitment to communism . their legitimacy depends on their ability to deliver economic growth through state- managed capitalism .
democracies , of course , allow people to use their reason to make choices based on the evidence of their own eyes .
when you don ’ t like a government , you can turn the r asc als out without over throwing the whole system .
change can be made in an evolutionary , rather than a revolutionary , way .
but no one should think that debate in democracies is always based on reason , or that democracy necessarily makes people more rational .
sometimes reason does prevail . this is what appeared to happen in the last indian election , and the election in the united states of president barack obama was also plainly a suprem ely rational moment .
but reason does not seem to be getting much of a hearing during the current health-care debate in the us .
outsiders , even admir ers , have often wondered how the most globalized country in the world – a continent inhabited by people from every land – can be so ir rationally insul ar on some issues .
we scratch our heads about america ’ s gun laws . we were aston ished during president george w. bush ’ s first term at the administration ’ s hostility to science , reflected in its stance on climate change and charles darwin ’ s theory of evolution .
the opposition to health-care reform is a similar cause of b em us ement .
we know that despite its great wealth – and its groundbreaking medical research – america ’ s health-care system is aw ful . it is hugely expensive .
its costs overwhelm workplace health-insurance schemes . the poor go un protected .
too many of the sick are un treated . overall health statistics are worse than those in comparable countries .
his proposals would lead , it is said , to the state mur dering the elderly .
they would introduce soviet communism into the us – just like what apparently exists in canada and britain , with their state-sponsored health systems .
communism in tor onto and london ?
or just better , cheaper , more reliable health care for all ?
reason seems to be having a hard time of it in the us just now .
maybe it ’ s no coincidence that grou ch o marx was an american citizen .
but surely the way a society cares for its sick and ne edy and elderly is sufficiently important to deserve serious and thoughtful argument based on what we really can see with our own eyes rather than on un informed partisan prejudice .
gun control after new town
new york – the brutal murder of 20 children and seven adults in new town , connec tic ut , sha kes us to the core as individuals and requires a response as citizens .
the united states seems to re el from one mass gun killing to another – roughly one a month this year alone .
easy access to guns in the us leads to horrific murder rates relative to other highly educated and wealthy societies .
america needs to find a better way .
other countries have done so .
between the mid- 1970 ’ s and the mid-1990 ’ s , australia had several mass sho ot ings .
after a particularly horrible massacre in 1996 , a new prime minister , john how ard , declared that enough was enough .
he instituted a severe crackdown on gun ownership , and forced would-be gun owners to submit to a rigorous application process , and to document why they would need a gun .
conditions for gun ownership in australia are now very strict , and the registration and approval process can take a year or more .
how ard ’ s government also implemented a rigorous “ buy back ” policy , to enable the government to purchase guns already owned by the public .
the policy worked .
while violent crime has not ended in australia , murders are down , and , even more dramatically , there has not been a single mass shooting since 1996 in which three or more people died ( the definition used in many studies of mass sho ot ings ) .
before the crackdown , there had been 13 such massacres in 18 years .
yet the us still refuses to act , even after this year ’ s string of shocking incidents : the massacre in a movie the at re in color ado , an attack on a si k h community in mil w au ke e , another on a shopping m all in or eg on , and many more before the ruthless slaughter of first grad ers and school staff in new town .
the gun lobby in the us remains powerful , and politicians are afraid to counter it .
given the shooting of then- congres s woman gab ri el le gif for ds in 2011 , perhaps they even fear that they , too , might be targeted .
there can be little doubt that some societies are more steep ed in violence than others , even controlling for obvious factors like income levels and education .
the us homic ide rate is roughly four times that of comparable societies in western europe , and latin america ’ s homic ide rates are even higher than in the us ( and dramatically higher than asian countries at roughly the same income level ) .
what accounts for stagger ingly high rates in the us and latin america ?
american violence is rooted in history .
the us and latin american countries are all “ conquest ” societies , in which europeans ruled over multi- racial societies .
in the us and many latin american countries , slav e holding fueled mass violence as well .
the sl aves – and generations of their descendants – were routinely murdered .
the us also developed a particular populist belief that gun ownership constitutes a vital protection against government tyranny .
the us was born in a citizens ’ revolt against british imperial power .
the right of citizens to organize militias to fight government tyranny was therefore a founding idea of the new country , enshrined in the second amendment to the us constitution , which decla res that , because a country needs a well- regulated militia , the people have the right to bear arms .
since citizens ’ militias are anachron istic , gun owners now use the second amendment merely to defend individual gun ownership , as if that somehow offers protection against tyranny .
a reckless , right-wing supreme court has agreed with them .
as a result , gun ownership has become per vers ely linked to freedom in the vast gun - owning american sub- culture .
but , instead of protection of freedom , americans nowadays are getting massive bloodshed and fear .
the claim that gun ownership ensures freedom is especially absurd , given that most of the world ’ s vibrant democracies have long since cr acked down on private gun ownership .
no tyr ant has risen in australia since how ard ’ s gun - control reforms .
simply put , freedom in the twenty-first century does not depend on unregulated gun ownership .
indeed , america ’ s gun culture is a threat to freedom , after the murder of a president , senator , and other public leaders , and countless assassination attempts against public officials over recent decades .
yet us gun culture remains as pervasive as it is un recorded .
america re els from one shooting disaster to the next , and on nearly every occasion , politicians du ti fully declare their continued devo tion to unregulated gun ownership .
indeed , no one even knows how many guns americans hold .
the number is estimated to be around 2 70 million , or almost one per person on average .
according to one recent poll , 47 % of households have a gun at home .
the shooting in new town was not only especially horrific and heart breaking , but is also part of an increasingly common pattern – a specific kind of murder - suicide that has been carefully studied by psychologists and psychi atr ists .
lon ers , often with paranoid tendencies , commit these he inous acts as part of their own suicide .
they use carefully planned and staged mass murders of inno cents in order to take revenge on society and to glor ify themselves as they take their own lives .
the perpetrators are not hardened criminals ; many have no previous criminal record .
they are pathetic , der anged , and often have struggled with mental instability for much of their lives .
they need help – and society needs to keep guns out of their reach .
america has now suffered around 30 shooting massacres over the past 30 years , including this year ’ s deadly dozen ; each is a gu t- wrenching tragedy for many families .
and yet , each time , gun owners scre am that freedom will be eliminated if they are unable to buy assault weapons and 100- round cli ps .
the blood ba th in new town is the time to stop feeding this gun frenzy .
australia and other countries provide models of how to do it : regulate and limit gun ownership to approved uses .
america ’ s real freedoms depend on san e public policy .
new york – the 2008 financial crisis marked the end of the global order as we knew it .
in advance of the upcoming g-8 summit , it is impossible to overlook the fact that , for the first time in seven decades , the united states can not drive the international agenda or provide global leadership on all of today ’ s most pressing problems .
indeed , the us has tr im med its presence abroad by refusing to contribute to a eurozone bailout , intervene in syria , or use force to contain iran ’ s nuclear breakout ( despite strong israeli support ) .
president barack obama officially ended the war in iraq , and is withdrawing us troops from afghanistan at a pace constrained only by the need to save face .
america is handing off the leadership bat on – even if no other country or group of countries is willing or able to grasp it .
in short , us foreign policy may be as active as ever , but it is down si zing and becoming more exac ting about its priorities .
as a result , many global challenges – climate change , trade , resource scarcity , international security , cyber- warfare , and nuclear proliferation , to name a few – are bound to loom larger .
welcome to the g- zero world , a more turbulent , uncertain environment in which coordination on global policy issues falls by the way side .
paradoxically , this new environment , though daunting , is less troubl esome for the us ; in fact , it provides fresh opportunities for the us to capitalize on its unique position .
the g- zero world is not all bad for the us – if it plays its cards right .
many residual strengths take on greater importance in such a world , and america remains the world ’ s only true superpower and its largest economy – still more than twice the size of china ’ s .
its defense expenditures represent nearly half the world total , and exceed those of the next 17 countries combined .
the dollar remains the world ’ s reserve currency , and investors ’ scramble into us government debt at every peak in the crisis since 2008 has underscored america ’ s saf e- haven status ( even in crises that america caused ) .
likewise , the us continues to lead in entrepreneurship , research and development , higher education , and technological innovation .
moreover , it is now the world ’ s largest natural-gas producer and cal ori e exporter , which has reduced its vulnerability to price shocks or food shortages .
no country rivals america ’ s promotion of the rule of law , liberal democracy , transparency , and free enterprise .
while other countries certainly support these values , only the us has been willing , healthy , and big enough to ensure that they prevail .
so , as america curtail s its global leadership , it will find itself in more demand .
consider asia , for example . as china ’ s economic importance and regional influence grows , its neighbors are seeking to deepen ties with the us .
japan , australia , indonesia , and taiwan have all recently closed trade and security- related deals with the us .
even burma has gotten on board , resum ing diplomatic engagement with the us while trying to work its way out of china ’ s shadow .
in other words , in a g- zero world , an increasingly aggressive global environment makes the us all the more appealing to countries seeking to hedge their bets . as a result , the us has an opportunity to act more precisely in its own interests .
supplying less leadership allows the us to weigh opportunity costs before taking action , and to select the issues and circumstances that suit it the best . in this environment , military intervention in libya does not necess itate the same in syria .
the extent to which the us will capitalize on these opportunities remains to be seen .
in fact , america ’ s short-term advantages pose the biggest obstacle to its long-term outlook .
call this the “ saf e- haven curse ” : as long as the us remains the saf est port in any storm , it faces no immediate pressure to address its weaknesses .
for example , for all of the hand- wringing about america ’ s national debt , investors will continue to loan the us money .
over the long term , however , us policymakers must make steady progress in restoring confidence in the nation ’ s fiscal health by cutting politically sacred programs like social security , medicare , and defense .
officials will have to put aside short-term motives and party orthodoxy to bolster america ’ s aging infrastructure , reform its education and immigration systems , and pursue long-term fiscal consolidation .
but , by cus hi oning against sufficiently calam itous risks , the same advantages allow the us to pro cr ast inate .
american politicians need to recognize the new g- zero reality and rebuild america ’ s domestic sources of strength , even if only incre mentally . if they do , the us will have the vigor and flexibility to shape the next world order .
america ’ s political system usually works well in crises . but , thanks to its residual advantages in a lead er less world , the us need not rely on a crisis to precipitate action .
it need only seize the g- zero moment .
america ’ s houses of cards
there are times when being proven right brings no pleasure .
for several years , i argued that america ’ s economy was being supported by a housing bubble that had replaced the stock market bubble of the 1990 ’ s .
but no bubble can expand forever .
with middle-class incomes in the united states stagnating , americans could not afford ever more expensive homes .
as one of my predecessors as chairman of the us president ’ s council of economic advisers famously put it , “ that which is not sustainable will not be sustained . ”
economists , as opposed to those who make their living gambling on stocks , make no claim to being able to predict when the day of reckoning will come , much less identifying the event that will bring down the house of cards .
but the patterns are systematic , with consequences that unfold gradually , and painfully , over time .
there is a macro- story and a micro- story here .
the macro- story is simple , but dramatic .
some , ob serving the crash of the sub-prime mortgage market , say , “ don ’ t worry , it is only a problem in the real estate sector . ”
but this over looks the key role that the housing sector has played in the us economy recently , with direct investment in real estate and money taken out of houses through refinancing mortgages accounting for two-thirds to three-quarters of growth over the last six years .
booming home prices gave americans the confidence , and the financial where with al , to spend more than their income .
america ’ s household savings rate was at levels not seen since the great depression , either negative or zero .
with higher interest rates depressing housing prices , the game is over .
as america moves to , say , a 4 % savings rate ( still small by normal standards ) , aggregate demand will weaken , and with it , the economy .
the micro- story is more dramatic .
record-low interest rates in 2001 , 2002 and 2003 did not lead americans to invest more – there was already excess capacity .
instead , easy money stimulated the economy by inducing households to refinance their mortgages , and to spend some of their capital .
it is one thing to borrow to make an investment , which strengthens balance sheets ; it is another thing to borrow to finance a vacation or a consumption binge .
but this is what alan greenspan encouraged americans to do .
when normal mortgages did not prime the pump enough , he encouraged them to take out vari able- rate mortgages – at a time when interest rates had nowhere to go but up .
predatory lenders went further , offering negative am or tization loans , so the amount owed went up year after year .
sometime in the future , payments would rise , but borrowers were told , again , not to worry : house prices would rise faster , making it easy to refinance with another negative am or tization loan .
the only way ( in this view ) not to win was to sit on the sidelines .
now reality has hit : newspapers report cases of borrowers whose mortgage payments exceed their entire income .
globalization implies that america ’ s mortgage problem has worldwide repercussions .
the first run on a bank occurred against the british mortgage lender northern rock .
america managed to pass off bad mortgages worth hundreds of billions of dollars to investors ( including banks ) around the world .
they buried the bad mortgages in complicated instruments , buried them so deep that no one knew exactly how badly they were impaired , and no one could calculate how to re- price them quickly .
in the face of such uncertainty , markets fro ze .
those in financial markets who believe in free markets have temporarily abandoned their faith .
for the greater good of all ( of course , it is never for their own selfish interests ) , they argued a bailout was necessary .
while the us treasury and the imf warned east asian countries facing financial crises ten years ago against the risks of bail - outs and told them not to raise their interest rates , the us ignored its own lectures about moral hazard effects , bought up billions in mortgages , and lowered interest rates .
but lower short-term interest rates have led to higher medium-term interest rates , which are more relevant for the mortgage market , perhaps because of increasing worries about inflationary pressures .
it may make sense for central banks ( or fannie mae , america ’ s major government- sponsored mortgage company ) to buy mortgage-backed securities in order to help provide market liquidity .
but those from whom they buy them should provide a guarantee , so the public does not have to pay the price for their bad investment decisions .
equity owners in banks should not get a free ride .
securitization , with all of its advantages in sharing risk , has three problems that were not adequately anticipated .
while it meant that american banks were not hit as hard as they would otherwise , america ’ s bad lending practices have had global effects .
moreover , securitization contributed to bad lending : in the old days , banks that originated bad loans bor e the consequences ; in the new world of securitization , the origin ators could pass the loans onto others .
( as economists would say , problems of asymmetric information have increased . )
in the old days , when borrowers found it impossible to make their payments , mortgages would be restructured ; forec lo sures were bad for both the borrower and the lender .
securitization made debt restructuring difficult , if not impossible .
it is the victims of predatory lenders who need government help .
with mortgages amounting to 95 % or more of the value of the house , debt restructuring will not be easy .
what is required is to give individuals with excessive indebtedness an ex ped ited way to a fresh start – for example , a special bankruptcy provision allowing them to recover , say , 75 % of the equity they originally put into the house , with the lenders bearing the cost .
there are many lessons for america , and the rest of the world ; but among them is the need for greater financial sector regulation , especially better protection against predatory lending , and more transparency .
america ’ s interest-rate puzzle
a great puzzle in today ’ s world economy is the continued low level of long-term real interest rates in the united states .
conventional macro economists like me look at america ’ s current-account deficit , now running at 7 % of gdp , and know that such vast deficits are inevitably followed by large currency depreci ations .
so we expect a substantial depreciation premium on us interest rates .
if the dollar falls 20 % more against the euro sometime in the next ten years , us long-term interest rates should be two percentage points higher than euro rates .
if it falls 40 % against the yen sometime in the next ten years , us long-term interest rates should be four percentage points higher than japanese rates .
but we are not seeing signs of anything like this .
the puzzle is not only that long-term rates are too low when viewed in the international context , but also that they are too low when viewed in america ’ s domestic context .
the bush administration continues to have no plans to se w up the ve ins it has opened with its medieval economic policy , which holds that bleeding revenue from the government cures all economic problems .
this means that unless america ’ s domestic savings rate rises migh tily – which it shows no signs of doing – and unless investment expenditure remains ab normally low for the rest of this decade , the supply of lo an able funds to finance investment will soon be much less than demand when the current-account deficit narrow s to sustainable levels . but when supply is less than demand , prices rise sharply .
in this case , the price of lo an able funds is the real interest rate .
an expectation that interest rates will be high sometime in the next decade should mean high interest rates on long-term bonds today .
yet financial markets are not pricing dollar depreciation and a rise in long-term us interest rates accordingly .
when we macro economists talk to our friends on wall street , we find that they don ’ t view this as a puzzle at all .
on the contrary , they are puzz led about why we view the current low level of us long-term interest rates as worrisome .
from their perspective , today ’ s high demand for long-term dollar-denominated securities is easily explained : asian central banks are buying in order to hold down their currencies , the us treasury is borrowing short ( and thus not issuing that many long-term securities ) , and us companies are not undertaking the kinds of investments that would lead them to issue many long-term bonds .
but for every market mis pricing there is a profit opportunity : if long-term interest rates are , indeed , too low and long-term bond prices too high , investors will short long-term us bonds , park the money elsewhere , wait for bond prices to return to fundamentals , and then cover their short positions .
by doing so , they will push prices close to fundamentals today .
wall stre eters , however , offer a counter argument : for any financial institution to , say , bet on the decline of the dollar against the yuan over the next five years in a serious , leveraged way is to put its survival at risk should the trades go wrong .
and trades do go wrong : remember the collapse of long-term capital management .
the existence of large financial-market actors that do not care about maximizing their profits magn ifies the risk iness of the bets .
if , say , the bank of china and the federal reserve decided to teach speculators a lesson by pushing the dollar ’ s value relative to the yuan up by 20 % for a month , they could do so , bankrup ting many financial institutions with short positions .
similarly , any financial institution that bets on a sharp rise in long-term interest rates over the next five years in a serious , leveraged way also puts its survival at risk .
for where should they park their money ?
real estate r ental yields and stock-market pay outs are low , and real estate and stock prices may well fall as much as or more than bond prices if interest rates spike .
only businesses that can borrow long-term now , lock in a low real interest rate , and invest in expanding their capacity can make the domestic bet that interest rates will rise .
but america ’ s businesses see enough risk in the future to be wary of getting stuck with un utili zed capacity .
economists believe that market forces drive prices to fundamentals .
but we are not careful enough to distinguish situations in which equilibr ium- restoring forces are strong from those in which such forces are weak .
the dollar will fall and us long-term interest rates will rise , but only when traders on wall street and elsewhere decide that holding dollars and long-term us bonds is more risky in the short run .
when that happens , the long-run future will be now .
america ’ s islamist allies of convenience
new delhi – in just one decade , the united states has intervened militarily in three muslim-majority countries and overthrown their governments .
now the same coalition of american liberal interventi onists and neo conservatives that promoted those wars is pushing for punitive airstrikes in syria without reflecting on how us policy has ended up strengthening islamists and fostering anti-americanism .
indeed , the last “ humanitarian intervention ” has clearly backfired , turning libya into a breeding ground for transnational militants .
rather , the desire to protect us “ credibility ” has become the last refuge of those seeking yet another war in the wider middle east .
if “ credibility ” were pur ged from the debate and the focus placed squarely on advancing long-term us interests , it would become apparent that an attack on syria might not yield even temporary geopolitical gains .
beyond the short term , it would unleash major unintended consequences , potentially including an iraq - style “ soft ” partition of syria and the creation of a haven for extremists stretching across much of islam ist- controlled northern syria and into the sunni areas of iraq .
indeed , an attack would most likely increase america ’ s reliance on un sav ory islamist rulers in countries ranging from saudi arabia and qatar to turkey and the united arab emirates .
some arab monarch s have pledged to bank roll the us attack – an investment that they would easily recover , given that the war talk has already increased oil prices .
al qaed a- type groups already have gained ground in the middle east and north africa as an unintended by product of us policies , creating fertile conditions for step pe d-up international terrorism in the coming years .
the us invasion and occupation of iraq , for example , created a major opening for al qaeda , whose affili ates now represent the sunni struggle against the shia- dominated government .
likewise , regime change in libya aided the rise of al qaed a- linked militants , leading to the killing in benghazi of the us ambassador .
a system based on sharia ( islamic law ) has been imposed , human-rights abuses are leg ion , and cross-border movement of weapons and militants has undermined the security of libya ’ s neighbors .
meanwhile , america ’ s support for the regimes in yemen and saudi arabia has contributed to the rise of al qaeda in the arabian peninsula .
in parts of southern yemen , an al qaeda affili ate , ans ar al- sharia , functions as a de facto government .
in syria , where sizable ch un ks of territory are already under islamist control and the pro- al qaeda al n us ra front over shadows the us- backed free syrian army , the obama administration is star ing at the bitter harvest of its previous policy choices .
airstrikes now would merely make matters worse by undercutting the f sa ’ s grassroots legitimacy and aiding islamist forces .
farther east , the us wants an “ hon orable ” exit from afghanistan – the longest war in its history – through a peace deal with the taliban , its main battlefield opponent .
in seeking to co- opt the taliban – an effort that has resulted in the taliban establishing what amounts to a diplomatic mission in doha , qatar – the us is best owing legitimacy on a thu ggish militia that en forces medieval practices in the areas under its control .
america ’ s d alliances with islam ist- leaning political forces – and governments – have been guided by the notion that the clo ak of islam helps to protect the credibility of leaders who might otherwise be seen as foreign pup pe ts .
that simply will not work , even in the short term .
on the contrary , until the egyptian army removed him from the presidency , the muslim brotherhood ’ s mohamed morsi was coming to be seen by many as america ’ s man in cairo .
in the long term , the us will gain nothing – and risk much – by continuing to back oil she i kh doms that fund muslim extremist groups and mad r as as from the philippines and india to south africa and venezuela .
by supporting islamist rulers , the us is contributing to a trend evident from the maghreb to the bad lands of afghanistan and pakistan – muslims killing muslims .
american policy has also contributed to a growing conflict between islamist and secular forces in muslim countries .
this is best illustrated by turkey , where obama has ignored prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan ’ s heavy-handed efforts to annu l free speech and turn himself into a twenty-first-century sultan .
there and elsewhere , the us , motivated by the larger geopolitical goal of containing shia iran and its regional allies , has embraced sunni rulers steep ed in religious and political bigotry , even though they pose a transnational threat to the values of freedom and secularism .
moreover , the clash within islam is likely to be destabilizing regi onally and counterproductive to the interests of the free world .
against this background , obama should heed the doctrine proposed in 1991 by general col in powell .
the powell doctrine stipul ates that the us should use military force only when a vital national-security interest is at stake ; the strategic objective is clear and attainable ; the benefits are likely to outweigh the costs ; adverse consequences can be limited ; broad international and domestic support has been obtained ; and a plausible exit strategy is in place .
given the us record since the doctrine was formulated , another criterion should be added : the main beneficiaries of military intervention are not america ’ s mortal enemies .
drone wars
brussels – “ sometime they ’ ll give a war and nobody will come , ” the american poet carl sand burg wrote hop efully in 1936 .
rather , wars are increasingly fought remotely , with drones – or un man ned aerial vehicles ( u av s ) – doing the killing .
under president barack obama , the number of drone strikes carried out by the united states has soared , with more than 300 u av attacks reported in pakistan alone .
in march 2011 , the us air force for the first time trained more pil ots for drones than for any other purpose .
this raises serious ethical questions .
with no military personnel risking their lives , u av s make it easier to kill , and to justify war operations to the public at home .
moreover , a human being ’ s retic ence to kill is in vers ely related to the distance between att acker and target .
in the case of a pilot flying drones over yemen by operating a jo ys tick in ne v ada , the threshold to pulling the trigger is dangerously low .
killing is just a part of the job , to be followed by bow ling , perhaps , or a quiet evening at home .
meanwhile , the mere sound of drones terror izes whole populations , indicating to enemies and civilians alike that they are being watched and might be attacked at any moment – which could well play into the hands of terrorist recruit ers .
from a legal and human-rights point of view , the us drone program is even more alarming .
after all , countries such as pakistan , yemen , and somalia do not belong to declared war zones .
outside the context of war , in turn , state killings are legal only if they prove absolutely necessary to save lives .
they must be conducted either in self-defense after an attack , or in anticip atory self-defense against an immediate threat , when taking time to discuss non- lethal alternatives is not feasible .
more than a decade after september 11 , america ’ s drone program does not fall into the first category of re active self-defense .
likewise , there is no evidence that any presumed terrorist who was killed outside of official war zones in the last few years represented a threat so immediate to us citizens ’ lives that preventive and pre med itated killing was the only option .
unless us leaders prove otherwise in every case , american u av attacks in countries like pakistan or yemen should be called what they are : extra judicial killings .
us state department legal adviser har old ko h dis agrees , arguing that america is involved in a worldwide “ armed conflict with al qaeda , as well as the taliban and associated forces . ”
so , ko h claims , drone attacks are part of a global war , fought both in declared war zones and non- war countries ; therefore , they are legal .
but , even under this adventur ous assumption , human-rights issues arise .
the laws of war con done targeted killings only of “ combatants ” who “ directly participate in hostilities . ”
the killings must be proportion ate , strategically necessary , and publicly justified .
avoiding harm to civilians should be the top priority .
at the slightest sign of il legality , an investigation must be conducted , off enders prosecuted , and victims compensated .
the us drone program ’ s legal basis is entirely unclear , however .
given that most information about u av activity is classified , it is impossible to know whether all drone targets directly participated in hostilities .
and , while the obama administration ’ s claim of zero or single- digit civilian fat alities may be true according to the official definition , it rests on the premise that any military- age male killed in a drone strike is a militant , unless intelligence pos th um ously proves otherwise .
a recent report by the law schools at stanford university and new york university concludes that , in reality , civilian casualties in pakistan may have accounted for up to 75 % of all u av victims between 2008 and 2011 .
others estimate a lower , but still alarming , rate of 30 % .
the legal obligation of proportion ality is clearly being violated .
drone operations are carried out by the central intelligence agency , an organization whose activities are sh rou ded in secrecy .
and , unlike military personnel , cia agents enjoy extensive immunity , undermining international legal standards .
without increased transparency , to declare america ’ s u av campaign legal is impossible , both in the context of war and outside of armed conflict .
as long as the us keeps the rest of the world in the dark , illegal acts – including possible war crimes – may be committed with impunity .
just as citizens worldwide are demanding increased economic and financial accountability , more pressure must be placed on the us to either prove that its drone activities are necessary and legal , or to stop them immediately .
victims of u av attacks , their families , and civil-society groups have begun to speak out against america ’ s questionable drone campaign , and to pursue legal action .
others should feel encouraged to follow suit .
in the meantime , every drone strike will not only undermine human rights and international humanitarian law , but will also further widen a legal loop hole that other governments and armed groups will not hesitate to exploit .
the us drone program does not make the world a safer place ; it creates an environment in which un law ful killings can happen virtually anywhere , at any time , violating the fundamental human right not to be arbitr arily deprived of one ’ s life .
america ’ s loc ust years
berkeley – it is hard right now to write about american political economy .
nobody knows whether the debt- ceiling trip wire will be ev aded ; if so , how ; or what will happen if it is not .
if no deal to raise the debt ceiling is reached by august 3 , interest rates on united states treasury bonds could spike , or they could remain stable , as investors decide they have other problems to worry about .
or the us federal reserve , the peoples bank of china ( pbc ) , or both – or even some other body – could support the market .
or interest rates could rise if people expect a much weaker global economy – and , in a weaker global economy with no inflation , investors should be holding more us treasuries , not fewer .
frankly , no one knows what legislative deal will be struck to raise the debt ceiling .
all we know as of this writing is that a deal would probably involve cuts in near-term spending , meaning weaker growth and higher unemployment over the next 18 months .
and we can assume that it would be repe aled and replaced by something else come january 2013 , either by a re-elected president barack obama , or by a new , republican president .
so , rather than talking about the us debt ceiling , let us think instead about all of the things that the debt- ceiling impasse has prevented the us government from doing during the past six months – all of the useful policies that might have been debated and enacted , but were not .
the risks imposed by global warming , for example , have not gone away .
the sooner the world starts preparing to deal with those threats , the better .
another six months should not be lost .
the employ ment- to- population ratio in the us remains flat – mired at the very low levels to which it fell during the recession .
with households desperately trying to rebuild their balance sheets , and with capital investment remarkably healthy , the only places to boost spending to restore capacity utilization and unemployment to normal levels are exports , government purchases , and construction investment .
but opportunities to pursue the necessary policies have not been gras ped .
here , too , another six months should not be lost .
likewise , the us could have fulfilled its normal role as the conduc tor of the international economic orchestr a . it has not , even as the european union continues to respond inadequately to its own slow- moving solvency crises .
the mandar ins of northern europe continue to measure out a dr ip - feed of support with coffee spo ons .
another six months have been lost .
solving any of these three problems would go a long way toward resolving the long-run financing imbalance between current tax rates and america ’ s long-run social- insurance promises that the debt- ceiling debate ’ s instig ators supposedly want to address .
but the us government won ’ t address them . six months that could have been spent boosting the long-run growth potential of the american economy through infrastructure investment , educational reform , or an overhaul of health-care financing – greatly easing america 's long-run deficit and debt dilemmas in the process – have been lost .
during the run-up to world war ii , winston churchill , speaking in parliament , lamented “ the years that the locu sts ha th e at en ” – the period during which prepar atory action to face the great crisis of his day ( the rise of continental fascism ) could have been taken , but was not .
over the past century – with the notable exception of the great depression – the us political system has been remarkably good at forese eing crises long before they have happened , and at least setting the foundation for dealing with them when they have occurred .
but so far in the third millennium , this skill – or simply run of luck – has deser ted the us .
my view is that the problem would fix itself easily if only the republican party of dwight d. eisenhower could stage a comeback ( though without richard nixon and joseph mcc ar thy ) .
it is becoming increasingly clear , however , that the problem is one not only for the us , but for the rest of the world as well .
since december 7 , 1941 , the world has in large part been able to rely on global governance by a some what - competent hyper power .
that america may be gone for good .
if it is , the world needs to develop other institutions for global management – and quickly .
america ’ s misguided immigration debate
a debate on immigration is beginning in the united states senate , which will take up several proposals .
these include a hat eful bill – which the house of representatives has already approved – that provides for the construction of a wall along the us- mexican border and makes un authorized entry into the us a fel ony .
the us senate will also consider a bill co- author ed by senator edward kennedy and senator john mccain , which proposes stronger border enforcement , a temporary workers program with a path to resid ency and citizenship , and legalization for people already in the us without papers .
another idea is to require anyone in the us wanting to regul ar ize their immigration status to go home and wait in line there .
this last component is largely rhetoric ; it is hard to imagine any mexican already in the us voluntarily returning to , say , z ac at ec as to wait pati ently in line for a new visa .
president george w. bush has been skir ting the question ever since he committed himself to an immigration agreement with mexico when he visited president vic ente fox in gu ana ju ato almost exactly five years ago .
finally , and perhaps most importantly , there is senate judiciary committee chairman ar len specter ’ s compromise proposal .
specter ’ s proposal also provides for reinforced security at the border , as well as a six -year non- renewable temporary workers program without a path to resid ency , although it would allow un authorized immigrants to remain in the us with a new , non- immigrant status .
the latter status may or may not include a path to resid ency and citizenship ; fu dg ing the issue may be a negotiating tactic to avoid debate over whether this is a form of disguised amnesty ( which , fortunately , to a certain extent , it is ) .
what ’ s missing in the debate is the latin american context .
there was a time when north-south migr atory flows in the western hemisphere were limited to mexico and the caribbean .
that changed in the 1980 ’ s , when central america ’ s civil wars sent hundreds of thousands of migrants thr u mexico to the us , and then in the 1990 ’ s , when people fleeing violence in colombia , venezuela , peru , and ecuador also began searching for opportunity .
today , even brazil , traditionally a country of immigration , has become one of emigration .
moreover , these migrants are no longer exclusively of rural origin , nor do they travel only to traditional areas in the us ; they are , literally , everywhere .
their remittances contribute immensely to the economic welfare of their families , communities , and home countries ’ economies .
thus , whatever immigration policy emerges in the us will have an enormous impact south of the rio gr ande well beyond mexico .
this will occur precisely at a time when latin america is sw er ving left , with country after country drif ting back to anti-american , populist stances : venezuela in 1999 , bolivia last year , perhaps mexico , peru , and nicaragua later this year .
if the perception of further us hostility toward latin america persists , the tilt toward an irresponsible , demagog ic left will har den .
the best way to accent uate the region ’ s growing anti-american sentiment is to try to close the us- mexican border ( which will be futile ) .
instead , the us should establish humane , secure , and legal mechanisms of temporary or permanent entry for people the american economy needs and wants , and it should work with , not against , governments in latin america .
five years ago , mexico ’ s president vic ente fox tried to convince bush that something had to be done before a nativist backlash in the us complicated its relations with latin america and made goals such as a free trade agreement of the americas ( f ta a ) impossible .
but matters have gotten worse : border tensions between the us and mexico have grown , the proposed wall has rightly provoked indig nation , more un authorized immigrants than ever are entering the us , and the f ta a has collapsed .
bush must begin to use what political capital he has left to support enlightened immigration reform , along the lines of the kenne d y- mccain bill .
he will never get a gu est- worker program without democratic support , which in turn is unlikely unless the white house supports access to a program for un authorized immigrants already in the us that includes some type of path to residence and citizenship .
mexico and the us must be sensitive to domestic political concerns in both countries .
no immigration deal is feasible north of the border without addressing security matters ; south of the border , there is no conceivable mexican cooperation on border security or on a temporary workers program if immigration reform ignores the nearly five million mexican citizens without papers currently living in the us .
mexico must act on what fox has called “ shared responsibility . ”
the best imaginable deal between the us and mexico , or the best imaginable us immigration reform , will not eliminate the flow of undocumented migrants from mexico and south america overnight .
mexico has to assume responsibility for regulating this traffic , which means more than se aling off its southern border .
the government could , for example , double welfare payments to households whose male heads stay home , threaten to revo ke land reform rights after years of absence in rural communities , and establish cho ke points on highways at the te hu ant ep ec is th m us .
fox has said that he is willing to break with old mexican taboos , but the bush administration has never taken him up on it .
that is unfortunate , because fox will not be around forever .
immigration has always been an immensely complex and delicate issue inside the us , and now for latin america as well .
a window of opportunity opened at the beginning of bush ’ s first term , and closed shut after the terrorist attacks of september 2001 .
it is opening again and should be taken advantage of before it is too late .
why iran won ’ t bud ge
tel aviv – no one really believed that the latest round of international negotiations with iran over its nuclear program would produce a breakthrough .
so it was no surprise that it did not , despite the concessions that were made at the meeting in kazakhstan by the p5+1 ( china , france , russia , the united kingdom , and the united states , plus germany ) .
america ’ s belief that a harsh sanctions regime could co ax iran into a deal has proved – at least so far – to be unrealistic .
despite being isolated and ostr ac ized , iran has managed to gain some strategic breathing room with the help of countries like china , russia , india , syria , and venezuela , allowing it to resist western pressure .
more important , even though the severe sanctions regime led by the united states is bound to be imperfect – it only hard ens further iran ’ s resistance to “ america ’ s designs . ”
to be sure , iran ’ s alliances are vulnerable to erosion and , in the case of two staunch allies , syria and venezuela , to outright collapse .
the end of chav ism o would threaten iran ’ s vast interests in venezuela and its considerable presence in the and es , while the fall of the assad dynasty would be a devastating blow to iran ’ s regional strategy .
even so , russia and china continue to take a much more len ient approach to iran than europe and the us have since the international atomic energy agency ’ s report in november 2011 described in detail iran ’ s activities in pursuing the capability to produce nuclear weapons .
while the western powers have embraced ever- harsh er sanctions , russia and china view iran as a tool in their global competition with the us .
china ’ s iranian interests boil down to economics .
bilateral trade stands at about $ 40 billion a year , and china is not only iran ’ s largest customer for crude oil , but also a colossal investor – somewhere between $ 40 billion and $ 100 billion – in iran ’ s energy and transport sectors .
but , while china has supported the mandatory sanctions set by the united nations security council , it has rejected the west ’ s unilateral measures .
with bilateral trade worth only about $ 5 billion annually , russia ’ s economic interests in iran are fairly modest .
but it fears iran ’ s ability to cause trouble , particularly by stir ring up unrest among russia ’ s muslim citizens .
moreover , america has refused to pay the kremlin ’ s high price – curtail ment of congressional human-rights legislation , repeal of col d- war- era restrictions on russian- us trade , and abandonment of plans for ballistic missile defense in europe – for russian support on iran ( or , for that matter , on any other trouble spot , such as syria ) .
the problem with the us drive to have key stakeholders join its anti- iran crus ade is that some of them live in neighborhoods where iran is an important factor .
india is a case in point .
india is certainly alarmed at the possibility of iran developing nuclear weapons , not to mention its concern at the possible effects of iran ’ s islamist fundamentalism on kash mir i muslims .
but its $ 14 billion in annual bilateral trade , and dependence on iranian oil – many of india ’ s refin eries have been built to run solely on iranian crude – are key strategic considerations .
moreover , india needs iran as an alternative trade and energy condu it to central asia , byp assing rival pakistan , and also as a hedge against an uncertain future in afghanistan after america ’ s withdrawal in 2014 .
as a result , india ’ s policy mirrors china ’ s : it has aligned itself with mandatory international sanctions , but has ab jured voluntary western financial restrictions .
the best one can expect is that india continues to act at the margin – for example , by reducing dependence on iranian oil while increasing imports from saudi arabia , already its largest supplier of crude .
the equiv ocal nature of iran ’ s alliances , however , can be a mixed blessing .
yes , a harsh sanctions regime might still gain additional supporters , but an iran with its back against the wall would probably be even more obst inate in its nuclear drive .
after all , iraq was an easy target in the first gulf war precisely because it had abandoned its nuclear program , and possessed no weapons of mass destruction .
similarly , libya ’ s muammar el-qaddafi exposed himself to a nato on sl aught by relinqu ishing his w m ds .
by contrast , north korea shows that defiance , rather than accommodation , is a strategy that works .
that is why syria , with north korean assistance , tried to develop a nuclear program ( presumably destroyed by israel ’ s officially un acknowledged “ operation or ch ard ” in 2007 ) . iran will not consider abandoning its nuclear insurance policy unless a broad agenda is agreed upon that addresses iran ’ s concerns as a regional power and sec ures the immunity of its islamist regime from american actions .
albert einstein ’ s definition of in sanity as “ doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results ” could be applied to america ’ s iran policy .
the diplomacy of sanctions , ostr ac ism , and brinkmanship has failed res ound ingly .
as iran ’ s uran ium- enrichment and other weapon s- development activities continue unab ated , the us needs to make a break with the old rules of engagement .
america ’ s misplaced deficit complacency
cambridge – the united states still faces a dangerous fiscal deficit , but one might not know it from the complacency that dominates budget discussions in washington .
regarded as an urgent problem until recently , the federal deficit is now being placed on the back bur ner of american politics .
the shift in thinking was triggered by the revised deficit forecasts recently published by the congressional budget office , the independent technical agency responsible for advising congress on budget issues .
according to the cbo ’ s report , the us fiscal deficit will decline from 7 % of gdp in 2012 to 4 % in 2013 .
this reduction reflects the cuts in government spending on defense and non- defense programs mandated by the budget “ sequ ester ” that took effect in march , as well as the rise in revenue caused by higher rates for income and payroll taxes since the end of 2012 .
more striking is the cbo ’ s projection that the deficit will continue to decline rapidly , reaching just 2.1 % of gdp in 2015 , before rising gradually to just 3.5 % of gdp in 20 23 , the end of the cbo ’ s official forecast period .
that path of deficits implies that the government debt/gdp ratio will remain at about the current level of 75 % for the next ten years .
unfortunately , these head lin e- grabbing numbers are not likely to be borne out in reality ; indeed , even the cbo does not believe that they represent what will occur .
the cbo ’ s “ baseline budget ” assumes that all of the deficit- reducing features in current law will remain unchanged .
these include , for example , an old legislative requirement that payments to physicians in the government ’ s medicare program be reduced sharply in future years , a requirement that congress has voted each year to “ postpone . ”
in order to provide better guidance , the cbo presents an “ alternative fiscal scenario , ” in which such very unlikely features are removed from the forecast .
the alternative forecast implies that the annual budget deficit at the end of ten years will be back up to 4.7 % of gdp , with the debt/gdp ratio at 83 % and rising .
and those estimates are based on the optimistic assumption that the economy will have returned gradually to full employment with low inflation and moderate interest rates .
officials and others who favor stimulating growth through increased government spending ignore the cbo ’ s more realistic alternative scenario .
they buttress their argument that the deficit is not an immediate problem by pointing to very low interest rates on long-term government debt , with a 2 % yield on the ten-year treasury bond and a negative real interest rate on treasury inflation- protected bonds ( ti ps ) .
but such low rates do not reflect ordinary market sentiment ; rather , they stem from the fact that the federal reserve is now buying more long-term securities than the government is issuing to finance the budget deficit .
looking further ahead , the cbo warns that the combination of a rapidly aging population and the increase in medical costs will cause the deficit to rise rapidly , driven by the higher costs of pension and health-care benefits for middle-income retirees .
according to the cbo , without legislative changes , the fiscal deficit in 20 37 will be 17 % of gdp , while the national debt will increase to more than 19 5 % of gdp .
a large and rising national debt is a serious danger to an economy ’ s health .
higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and reduce economic growth .
by the end of the decade , the us will have to pay an amount equivalent to more than one-third of the revenue from person al- income taxes just to pay the interest on the national debt .
foreign investors now hold more than half of that debt .
paying interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than the us receives from the rest of the world .
that requires a weaker dollar to make us goods more attractive to foreign buyers and to make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers .
the weaker dollar reduces the us standard of living .
a large national debt also limits the government ’ s ability to respond to emergencies , including both military threats and economic downturns .
and it makes the us vulnerable to changes in financial-market sentiment , as the european experience has shown .
reducing future deficits and reversing the rise in the national debt require raising tax revenue and slowing the growth of government pension and health-care programs .
tax revenue can be raised without increasing marginal tax rates by limiting the tax subsidies that are built into the current tax code .
those subsidies are a hidden form of government spending on everything from home mortgages and health insurance to the purchase of hybrid cars and residential solar panels .
slowing the growth of the pension and health-care programs for middle-class retirees can not be done abruptly .
it must begin by giving notice to those who are now a decade away from retirement – which is why it is important to launch such reforms now .
unfortunately , the new complacency about future deficits makes it difficult , if not impossible , to enact the legislation needed to begin the process of tr im ming america ’ s long-term fiscal deficit .
it is important for policymakers and the public alike to understand the real fiscal outlook and the damage that high deficits will cause if prompt action is not taken .
merely moving the problem to the back bur ner will not prevent it from bo iling over .
meeting america ’ s growth challenge
berkeley – the united states continues to recover from its deepest economic slump since the great depression , but the pace of recovery remains frustr at ingly slow .
prolonged recession or a financial crisis in europe and slower growth in emerging markets are the main external sources of potential danger .
at home , political infighting underlies the two greatest risks : failure to reach a deal to raise the debt ceiling and an additional round of fiscal contraction that stym ies economic growth .
since 2010 , tepid average annual gdp growth of 2.1 % has meant weak job creation .
in both this recovery and the previous two , the rebound in employment growth has been weaker and later than the rebound in gdp growth .
but the loss of jobs in the most recent recession was more than twice as large as in previous recessions , so a slow recovery has meant a much higher unemployment rate for a much longer period .
weak aggregate demand is the primary culprit for subdued gdp and employment growth .
the 2008 recession was triggered by a financial crisis that erupted after the collapse of a credit- fueled asset bubble decimated the housing market .
private-sector demand contracts sharply and recovers only slowly after such crises .
the private-sector financial balance swung from a deficit of 3.7 % of gdp in 2006 , at the height of the boom , to a surplus of about 6. 8 % of gdp in 2010 and about 5 % today .
this represents the shar p est contraction and weakest recovery in private-sector demand since the end of world war ii .
growth in two components of private demand , residential investment and consumption , which account for more than 75 % of total spending in the us economy , has been especially slow .
both sources of demand are likely to strengthen in 2013 .
residential investment is still at an historic low as a share of gdp as a result of over building during the 2003- 2008 housing boom and the tsunami of forec lo sures that followed .
but the headwinds in the housing market are dissip ating .
home sales , prices , and construction all rose last year , while forec lo sures declined .
residential investment should be a source of output and job growth this year .
large losses in household wealth , deleveraging from unsustainable debt , weak wage growth , and a decline in labor ’ s share of national income to a historic low have combined to constrain consumption growth .
real median household income is still nearly 7 % below its 2007 peak , real median household net worth dropped by 35 % between 2005 and 2010 ( and remains significantly below its pre- recession peak ) , and about 90 % of the income gains during the recovery have gone to the top 1 % .
to be sure , the balance-sheet headwinds holding back consumption have eased .
households have slashed their debt – often through painful forec lo sures and bankruptcies – and their debt relative to income has sunk to its 2005 level , significantly below its 2008 peak . helped by low interest rates , debt service relative to household income has fallen back to levels not seen since the early 1980 ’ s .
but consumption will be hit by the exp ir ation of the payroll tax cut , which will reduce household income by about $ 125 billion this year .
another factor holding back recovery has been weak growth in spending on goods and services by both state and local governments , and more recently by the federal government .
indeed , since the recession ’ s onset , state and local governments have cut nearly 600,000 jobs and reduced spending for infrastructure projects by 20 % .
the fiscal trends for 2013 are mixed , but negative overall .
while state and local government cutbacks in spending and employment are ending as the recovery boosts their tax revenues , the fiscal drag at the federal level is strengthening .
the american taxpayer relief act – the tax deal reached in early january to avoid the “ fiscal cliff ” – sha ves about $ 750 billion from the deficit over the next ten years and could take a percentage point off the 2013 growth rate .
in addition , although less widely appreciated , significant reductions in federal spending are already under way , with more likely to come .
spending cuts and revenue increases that have been legisl ated since 2011 will reduce the projected deficit by $ 2.4 trillion over the next decade , with three-quarters coming from spending cuts , almost exclusively in non- defense discretionary programs .
based on current economic assumptions , the us needs about $ 4 trillion in savings to stabilize the debt/gdp ratio over the next decade .
the so-called sequ ester ( the across-the-board spending cuts scheduled to begin in march ) , would slash another $ 100 billion this year and $ 1.2 trillion over the next decade .
although it could stabilize the debt/gdp ratio , the sequ ester would be a mistake : it fails to distinguish among spending priorities , would undermine essential programs , and would mean another significant dent in growth this year .
moreover , despite the warnings of deficit alarm ists , the us does not face an imminent debt crisis .
currently , the federal debt held by the public is just over 70 % of gdp , a level not seen since the early 1950 ’ s .
however , government debt so ars by an average of 86 % after severe financial crises , so the increase in the federal debt by 70 % between 2008 and 2012 is not surprising .
nor is it alarming .
the us economy grew rapidly for several years after wwii with a higher debt/gdp ratio , and today ’ s ratio is lower than in all other major industrial countries ( and roughly half that of greece , analogies to which are absurd and misleading ) .
during the last two years , washington has been obsessed with the need to cut the deficit and put the debt/gdp ratio on a “ sustainable ” path , even as global investors have f locked to us government debt , driving interest rates to historic lows .
the considerable progress that has been made on deficit reduction over the next ten years has been overlooked .
also overlooked have been the immediate challenges of low growth , weak investment , and high unemployment .
it is time to re focus .
the us needs a plan for faster growth , not more deficit reduction .
ev sey dom ar , a legendary growth economist ( and one of my mit professors ) counsel ed that the problem of allevi ating the debt burden is essentially a problem of achieving growth in national income .
we should heed his wisdom .
america ’ s new progressive era ?
new york – in 1981 , us president ronald reagan came to office famously declaring that , “ government is not the solution to our problem .
government is the problem . ”
thir ty- two years and four presidents later , barack obama ’ s recent inaugural address , with its r inging endorsement of a larger role for government in addressing america ’ s – and the world ’ s – most urgent challenges , looks like it may bring down the curtain on that era .
reagan ’ s statement in 1981 was extraordinary .
it signaled that america ’ s new president was less interested in using government to solve society ’ s problems than he was in cutting taxes , mainly for the benefit of the wealthy .
more important , his presidency began a “ revolution ” from the political right – against the poor , the environment , and science and technology – that lasted for three decades , its tenets upheld , more or less , by all who followed him : george h. w. bush , bill clinton , george w. bush , and , in some respects , by obama in his first term .
the “ reagan revolution ” had four main components : tax cuts for the rich ; spending cuts on education , infrastructure , energy , climate change , and job training ; massive growth in the defense budget ; and economic deregulation , including privatization of core government functions , like operating military bases and prisons .
bil led as a “ free-market ” revolution , because it promised to reduce the role of government , in practice it was the beginning of an assault on the middle class and the poor by wealthy special interests .
these special interests included wall street , big oil , the big health insurers , and arms manufacturers .
they demanded tax cuts , and got them ; they demanded a roll back of environmental protection , and got it ; they demanded , and received , the right to attack unions ; and they demanded lucrative government contracts , even for param il itary operations , and got those , too .
for more than three decades , no one really challenged the consequences of turning political power over to the highest bid ders .
in the meantime , america went from being a middle-class society to one increasingly divided between rich and poor .
ceos who were once paid around 30 times what their average workers earned now make around 2 30 times that amount .
once a world leader in the fight against environmental degradation , america was the last major economy to acknowledge the reality of climate change .
maybe , just maybe , obama ’ s recent address marks not only the end of this destructive agenda , but also the start of a new era .
indeed , he devoted almost the entire speech to the positive role of government in providing education , fighting climate change , rebuilding infrastructure , taking care of the poor and disabled , and generally investing in the future .
it was the first inaugural address of its kind since reagan turned america away from government in 1981 .
if obama ’ s speech turns out to mark the start of a new era of progressive politics in america , it would fit a pattern explored by one of america ’ s great historians , arthur sch les inger , jr. , who documented roughly 30-year interv als between periods of what he called “ private interest ” and “ public purpose . ”
in the late 18 00 ’ s , america had its gil ded age , with the creation of large new industries by the era ’ s “ rob ber bar ons ” accompanied by massive inequality and corruption .
the subsequent progressive era was followed by a temporary return to plutocr acy in the 1920 ’ s .
then came the great depression , franklin roosevelt ’ s new deal , and another 30 years of progressive politics , from the 1930 ’ s to the 1960 ’ s .
the 1970 ’ s were a transition period to the age of reagan – 30 years of conservative politics led by powerful corporate interests .
it is certainly time for a re birth of public purpose and government leadership in the us to fight climate change , help the poor , promote sustainable technologies , and modernize america ’ s infrastructure .
if america re alizes these bold steps through purpos eful public policies , as obama outlined , the innovative science , new technology , and powerful demonstration effects that result will benefit countries around the world .
it is certainly too early to declare a new progressive era in america .
vested interests remain powerful , certainly in congress – and even within the white house .
these wealthy groups and individuals gave billions of dollars to the candidates in the recent election campaign , and they expect their contributions to yield benefits .
moreover , 30 years of tax cutting has left the us government without the financial resources needed to carry out effective programs in key areas such as the transition to low-carbon energy .
still , obama has wisely thrown down the ga un t let , calling for a new era of government activism .
he is right to do so , because many of today ’ s crucial challenges – saving the planet from our own excesses ; ensuring that technological advances benefit all members of society ; and building the new infrastructure that we need nationally and globally for a sustainable future – demand collective solutions .
implementation of public policy is just as important to good governance as the vision that underlies it .
so the next task is to design wise , innovative , and cost-effective programs to address these challenges .
unfortunately , when it comes to bold and innovative programs to meet critical human needs , america is out of practice .
it is time to begin anew , and obama ’ s full- thro ated defense of a progressive vision points the us in the right direction .
america ’ s new trade hypocrisy
as the current “ development round ” of trade talks moves into its final stages , it is becoming increasingly clear that the goal of promoting development will not be served , and that the multilateral trade system will be undermined .
nowhere is this clearer than in a provision that is supposed to give the least developed countries almost du ty- free access to developed countries ’ markets .
a year ago , the leaders of the world ’ s richest countries committed themselves to allevi ating the plight of the poorest .
at doha in november 2001 , they pledged to give something more valuable than money : the opportunity for poor countries to sell their goods and earn their way out of poverty .
with great fanfare , developed countries seemed for a while to be making good on their promise , as europe extended the “ everything but arms ” initiative ( e ba ) , under which it was unilaterally to open its markets to the poorest countries of the world .
the opening was less than it seemed .
the devil is in the details , as many less developed countries discovered that e ba ’ s complicated rules of origin , together with supply-side constraints , meant that there was little chance for poor countries to export their newly liberalized products .
but the coup de grace was delivered by the world ’ s richest country , the united states , which once again decided to demonstrate its hypocrisy .
the developing countries were disappointed with the results of europe ’ s e ba initiative , and europe has responded by committing itself to dealing with at least part of the problem that arises from the rules of origin tests .
america ’ s intention was , to the contrary , to seem to be opening up its markets , while doing nothing of the sort , for it appears to allow the us to select a different 3 % for each country .
the result is what is mock ingly coming to be called the eb p initiative : developing countries will be allowed freely to export everything but what they produce .
they can export j et engines , super computers , air planes , computer chips of all kind s — just not textiles , agricultural products , or processed foods , the goods they can and do produce .
consider bangladesh .
if we go by the most widely used six- digit tariff lines , bangladesh exported 40 9 tariff lines to the us in 2004 , from which it earned about $ 2.3 billion .
but its top 12 tariff lines – 3 % of all tariff lines – accounted for 5 9. 7 % of the total value of its exports to the us .
this means that the us could erect barriers to almost three- fifths of bangladeshi exports .
for cambodia , the figure would be about 62 % .
the situation is no better if the 3 % rule applies to the tariff lines that the us imports from the rest of the world ( rather than to the lines individual poor countries export to the us ) , for then the us can exclude roughly 300 tariff lines from du ty- free and quo ta - free treatment .
for bangladesh , this implies that 75 % of the tariff lines , accounting for more than 90 % of the value of its exports to the us , could be excluded from du ty- free treatment .
exclusion from du ty- free treatment could reach 100 % for cambodia , which exported only 2 77 tariff lines to the us in 2004 .
the official argument for the 3 % exclusion is that it affects “ sensitive products . ”
in other words , while the us lectures developing countries on the need to face the pain of rapid adjustment to liberalization , it refuses to do the same .
( indeed , it has already had more than 11 years to adjust to liberalization of textiles . )
but the real problem is far worse because the 3 % exclusion raises the specter of an o dious policy of divide and conqu er , as developing countries are invited to vie with each other to make sure that america does not exclude their vital products under the 3 % .
the whole exclusion simply undermines the multilateral trading system .
indeed , there may be a further hidden agenda behind the 97 % proposal .
at the world trade organization ’ s meeting canc un in 2003 , the developing countries stood together and blocked efforts to forge a trade agreement that was almost as unfair as the previous uruguay round , under which the poorest countries actually became worse off .
it was imperative that such unity be destroyed .
america ’ s strategy of bilateral trade agreements was aimed at precisely that , but it en listed only a few countries , representing a fraction of global trade .
the 97 % formula holds open the possibility of extending that fragmentation into the wto itself .
the us has already had some success in pit ting the poor against each other .
preferential access for african countries , under the african growth and opportunity act ( ag o a ) and more recent initiatives , seems to be largely a matter of trade diversion – taking trade from some poor countries and giving it to others .
for example , bangladesh ’ s share in us clothing markets declined from 4.6 % in 2001 to 3.9 % in 2004 .
during the same period , ag o a countries ’ market share in the us clothing sector increased from 1.6 % to 2.6 % , and it is likely to increase further when ag o a countries start to take full advantage of du ty- free access .
ag o a had a sun set clause , but if the du ty- free access becomes permanent for less developed countries in africa – as stipul ated in hong kong – then poor countries in asia will continue to lose us market share .
the wto is supposed to prevent these trade- diversi onary agreements , but so far no case has been successfully brought .
even if america succeeds in dividing the developing countries , however , it may inspire a degree of unity elsewhere .
game chang ers for growth
berkeley – the recent g-20 meeting of finance ministers in saint petersburg confirmed that the debate between growth and austerity is over – at least for now .
with protracted recession in europe and slow downs in emerging markets , concern about budget deficits has given way to apprehension about growth .
in july , the international monetary fund revised its global growth forecast downward for the second time this year .
both japan and the united states stand out as bright spots in the subdued global outlook , but for different reasons .
in japan , prime minister shinzo abe has unleashed a combination of aggressive monetary and fiscal expansion along with promised reforms of the labor market , corporate governance , regulation , and trade .
in response to rapid and bold stimulus measures , japan ’ s economy is expected to grow at a rate of around 3 % this year – one of the highest rates among advanced economies – and the ni k ke i index rose 80 % in the six- month period ending in may of this year .
now abe has signaled his intention to move forward with tough structural reforms .
if he delivers , his policies will be game chang ers for japan .
in the us , the story is one of continued recovery as the headwinds slowing growth dissip ate .
state-  and local-government budgets are improving , the housing market is strengthening , and households are deleveraging and repairing their balance sheets .
counterproductive and excessive fiscal austerity at the federal level has damp ened growth this year , but the private sector has proved more resilient than expected .
under current law , fiscal contraction is sl ated to ease next year and monetary policy is likely to remain supportive , so most forecasters predict an acceleration of growth .
but growth prospects could be undermined by another bru ising political battle over the federal budget , resulting in deep spending cuts .
the current republican rhetoric in the house of representatives port ends additional fiscal austerity .
earlier this year , the congressional budget office warned that the potential us growth rate has declined as a result of years of subpar investment rates , the aging of the population , and smaller productivity gains .
every year of below- capacity growth means lower growth capacity in the future , owing to lost investment , erosion of worker skills and experience , and diminished risk-taking .
still , there are often- overlooked reasons for optimism about america ’ s future potential growth .
a recent mckinsey global institute study identifies five mutually reinforcing “ game chang ers ” that could have a significant effect on gdp growth , productivity , and employment in the us by 2020 : shale energy , big- data analytics , exports in knowledge- intensive industries , infrastructure investment , and talent development .
two of these – shale energy and big- data analytics – build on ongoing technological breakthroughs in which the us has a strong lead and depend primarily on private-sector action , not macroeconomic or structural policies .
us production of shale gas and oil has been growing by more than 50 % annually over the last five years .
as a result of increasing supplies , us natural-gas prices have declined by two-thirds since 2008 and are likely to remain significantly lower than prices in the rest of the world at least through 2020 .
this price advantage will enhance america ’ s competitiveness as a manufacturing location , particularly for energy-intensive activities .
the us has the largest recover able shale-gas reserves and the second-largest recover able shale- oil reserves in the world .
it also enjoys a technological lead in shale- energy technologies , and it already has a vast network of pipelines , refin eries , and ports in the energy sector that can be re pur posed for shale gas and oil ( though much more investment will be needed ) .
growth in shale energy will mean more investment , production , and jobs in the energy sector itself .
lower gas prices will boost manufacturing production , particularly in downstream industries like petro chemicals and primary metals that use natural gas as fuel and feed stock .
growth in energy and energy-intensive industries will fuel additional demand , output , and employment across a wide swath of supporting activities , including transportation , construction , and professional services .
overall , mckinsey estimates that growth in shale energy could add 2- 4 % to annual gdp and create up to 1.7 million jobs by 2020 .
and shale gas em its co2 when burned , even though it has half the carbon content of coal and has played a significant role in cutting us carbon emissions to mid-1990 ’ s levels .
not surprisingly , the president of the natural resources defense council , an admired environmental group , recently remarked that “ fracking is about the most complicated thing i have encountered . ”
more research on the environmental risks and benefits of shale energy , and the development of new standards and regulations to control these risks are required .
big data and advanced analytics are another technology-driven game changer for us growth .
as more data are generated , stored , and transmitted in digital form , new data sets relevant to personal and business decisions are growing exponentially .
as a result of advances in computing power , the advent of cloud computing , and new software tools , more of these data sets can be quickly analyzed and used by businesses to reduce costs , boost productivity , and create new products and services .
big data and advanced analytics can also reduce costs and enhance efficiency in health care and government , and can create value for consumers through greater product variety and quality , as well as enhanced convenience – benefits that are not captured in gdp statistics .
mckinsey estimates that big- data analytics could add about $ 3 25 billion , or 1.7 % to annual gdp in the retail and manufacturing sectors , while generating up to $ 2 85 billion in productivity gains and cost savings in health care and government by 2020 .
the potential savings in health-care costs would ease pressures on government budgets and release resources to boost growth in the rest of the economy .
new information and communications technologies were game chang ers that boosted the potential growth rate of the us economy in the 1990 ’ s .
mckinsey ’ s research suggests that shale energy and big- data technologies will be game chang ers with similar benefits for the economy ’ s potential growth over the next several years .
america ’ s opposing futures
i recently learned something interesting : american international finance economists and american domestically oriented macro economists have very different – indeed , opposing – views of the likely consequences of america ’ s huge current-account deficit .
international finance economists see a financial crisis as likely , followed by a painful and perhaps prolonged recession in the united states .
domestically oriented macro economists , by contrast , see a forthcoming fall in the value of the dollar not as a crisis , but as an opportunity to accelerate growth .
domestically oriented macro economists look at the situation roughly like this : at some point in the future , foreign central banks will become less willing to continue buying massive amounts of dollar-denominated securities in order to prop up the green back .
when they cease their large-scale dollar- purchase programs , the value of the dollar will fall – and it will fall hard .
but , according to this view , as the dollar ’ s value declines , us exports will become more attractive to foreigners and american employment will rise , with labor re- allocated to the new ly- vibrant export sector .
it will be like what happened in britain after it abandoned its exchange-rate peg and allowed the pound to depreciate relative to the deutsch mark , or what happened in the us in the late 1980 ’ s , when the dollar depreciated against the pound , the deutsch mark , and – most importantly – the japanese yen .
international finance economists see a far ble aker future .
they see the end of large-scale dollar- purchase programs by central banks leading not only to a decline in the dollar , but also to a spike in us long-term interest rates , which will curb consumption spending immediately and thro t tle investment spending after only a short lag .
to be sure , international finance economists also see us exports benefiting as the value of the dollar declines , but the lags in demand are such that the export boost will come a year or two after the decline in consumption and investment spending .
eight to ten million people will have to shift employment from services and construction into exports and import - competing goods , implying that structural unemployment will rise .
moreover , there may be a financial panic : large financial institutions with short-term liabilities and long-term assets will have a difficult time wea thering a large rise in long-term dollar-denominated interest rates .
this mismatch can cause financial stress and bankruptcy just as easily as banks ’ local- currency assets and dollar liabilities caused stress and bankruptcy in the mexican and east asian crises of the 1990 ’ s and in the argent ine an crisis of this decade .
when international finance economists ske tch this scenario , domestically oriented macro economists respond that it sounds like a case of incompetent monetary policy .
why should the federal reserve allow long-term interest rates to spike just because other central banks have ceased their dollar- purchase programs ?
should not the fed step in and replace them with its own purchases of long-term us treasury bonds , thereby keeping long-term interest rates at a level conducive to full employment ?
to this , international finance economists respond that the fed does not have the power to do so .
therefore , since a fall in the value of the dollar raises import prices , and thus functions as a negative shock to the supply side of the economy , the fed will have to raise , not lower , interest rates , and sell , not buy , bonds .
serious economists whom i respect enormously find themselves taking strong positions on opposite sides of this debate .
i ’ m not wise enough to say which side is right , but i certainly know which side i hope is wrong .
america ’ s other 30 %
new haven – the american consumer is but a shadow of its former al mighty self .
personal consumption in the united states expanded at only a 1.5 % annual rate in real ( inflation-adjusted ) terms in the second quarter of 2012 – and that was no aberr ation .
unfortunately , it continues a pattern of weakness that has been evident since early 2008 .
over the last 18 quarters , annualized growth in real consumer demand has averaged a mere 0.7 % , compared to a 3.6 % growth trend in the decade before the crisis erupted .
never before has the american consumer been this weak for this long .
the cause is no secret .
consumers made huge bets on two bubbles – housing and credit .
reckless monetary and regulatory policies turned the hum ble abo de into an at m , allowing families to extract dollars from bubbles and live beyond their means .
both bubbles have long since burst , and us households are now dealing with post- bubble financial devastation – namely , underwater assets , record-high debt , and profound shortages of savings .
at the same time , sharply elevated unemployment and subpar income growth have combined to tighten the no ose on over- extended consumers .
as a result , american households have hun kered down as never before .
consumers are diverting what little income they earn away from spending toward paying down debt and rebuilding savings .
that is both logical and rational – and thus not something that the us federal reserve can offset with unconventional monetary easing .
american consumers ’ unprecedented retrenchment has turned the us economy ’ s growth calculus inside out .
consumption typically accounts for 70 % of gdp ( 71 % in the second quarter , to be precise ) .
but the 70 % is barely growing , and is unlikely to expand strongly at any point in the foreseeable future .
that puts an enormous burden on the other 30 % of the us economy to generate any sort of recovery .
in fact , the other 30 % has not done a bad job , especially considering the severe headwinds coming from consumers ’ 70 % .
the 30 % mainly consists of four components – capital spending by firms , net exports ( exports less imports ) , residential construction , and government purchases .
( technically , the pace of inventory investment should be included , but this is a cyclical buffer between production and sales rather than a source of final demand . )
given the 0.7 % trend in real consumption growth over the past four and a half years , the us economy ’ s anemic 2.2 % annualized recovery in the aftermath of the great recession is almost mirac ulous .
credit that mainly to the other 30 % , especially to strong exports and a rebound in business capital spending .
by contrast , the government sector has been moving in the opposite direction , as state and local governments retren ch and federal purchases top out after post-crisis deficit explo sions .
the housing sector has started to recover over the past five quarters , but from such a severely depressed level that its growth has had little impact on the overall economy .
given the strong likelihood that consumers will remain weak for years to come , america ’ s growth agenda needs to focus on getting more out of the other 30 % .
prospects for these two sources of growth will not only influence the vigor , or lack there of , of any recovery ; they could well be decisive in bringing about an important shift in the us growth model .
the 7 0 / 30 split underscores the challenge : the us must face up to a fundamental rebalancing – we an ing itself from excessive reliance on internal demand and drawing greater support from external demand .
capital spending and exports , which together account for about 24 % of gdp , hold the key to this shift .
at just over 10 % of gdp , the share of capital spending is well below the peak of nearly 13 % in 2000 .
but capital spending must exceed that peak if us businesses are to be equipped with state- of-the- art capacity , technology , and private infrastructure that will enable them to recapture market share at home and abroad .
only then could export growth , impressive since mid- 2009 , sustain further increases .
and only then could the us stem the rising tide of import penetration by foreign producers .
the other 30 % is also embl ematic of a deeper strategic issue that america faces – a profound competitive challenge .
a shift to external demand is not there for the asking . it must be earned by hard work , sheer determination , and a long overdue competitive revival .
on that front , too , america has been falling behind .
according to the world economic forum ’ s global competitiveness index , the us slipped to fifth place in 2011- 2012 , from fourth place the previous year , continuing a general downward trend evident since 2005 .
the erosion is trac eable to several factors , including deficiencies in primary and secondary education as well as poor macroeconomic management .
but the us also has distur b ingly low rankings in the quality of its infrastructure ( # 24 ) , technology availability and absorption ( # 18 ) , and the sophistication and bread th of its supply- chain production processes ( # 14 ) .
improvement on all counts is vital for america ’ s competitive revival .
but meeting the challenge will require vigorous growth from america ’ s other 30 % – especially private capital spending .
with the american consumer likely to remain on ice , the same 30 % must also continue to shoulder the burden of a sluggish economic recovery .
none of this can occur in a vacuum .
the investment required for competitive revival and sustained recovery can not be funded without a long-overdue improvement in us saving .
in an era of outsize government deficits and subpar household saving , that may be america ’ s toughest challenge of all .
america 's other 87 deficits
new haven – the united states has a classic multilateral trade imbalance .
while it runs a large trade deficit with china , it also runs deficits with 87 other countries .
a multilateral deficit can not be fixed by putting pressure on one of its bilateral components .
but try telling that to america ’ s growing chorus of china bash ers .
america ’ s massive trade deficit is a direct consequence of an unprecedented shortfall of domestic saving .
the broad est and most meaningful measure of a country ’ s saving capacity is what economists call the “ net national saving rate ” – the combined saving of individuals , businesses , and the government .
it is measured in “ net ” terms to strip out the depreciation associated with aging or obsol es cent capacity .
it provides a measure of the saving that is available to fund expansion of a country ’ s capital stock , and thus to sustain its economic growth .
in the us , there simply is no net saving any more .
never before in modern history has the world ’ s leading economic power experienced a saving shortfall of such epic proportions .
yet the us found a way to fin esse this problem .
exploiting what val é ry gis card d ’ est a ing called the “ exorbitant privilege ” of the world ’ s reserve currency , the us borrowed surplus savings from abroad on very attractive terms , running massive balance-of-payments , or current-account , deficits to attract foreign capital .
the us current account , which was last in balance in 1991 , hit a record deficit of $ 8 0 1 billion ( 6 % of gdp ) in 2006 .
this gap has narrowed in the past couple of years , but much of the improvement probably reflects little more than the temporary impact of an unusually tough business cycle .
this is where america ’ s multilateral trade deficit enters the equation , for it has long accounted for the bulk of america ’ s balance-of-payments gap .
since 2000 , it has made up fully 96 % of the cumulative current-account shortfall .
and that is what ultimately makes the china- centric blame game so absurd .
without addressing the root of the problem – america ’ s chronic saving shortfall – it is lu dic rous to believe that there can be a bilateral solution for a multilateral problem .
yet that is exactly what us officials , together with many prominent economists , believe america needs .
since the trade deficit is widely thought to put pressure on us jobs and real wages , the us-china trade imbalance has come under special scrutiny in these days of great ang st .
yes , china does account for the largest component of america ’ s multilateral trade deficit – making up 42 % of the total trade gap in 2010 .
conscious outsourcing and supply- chain management decisions by us multinationals play an important role in exagger ating china ’ s share .
but that does little to let china off the hook in the eyes of washington .
long-standing charges of currency manipulation provide the proverbial smoking gun that us politicians – of both parties – believe justifies the imposition of steep tariffs on china ’ s exports to the us ( which totaled $ 3 65 billion in 2010 ) .
that was precisely the argument behind the us senate ’ s recent overwhelming approval of a “ currency bill ” that took dead aim on china .
while it may be convenient to hold others accountable for america ’ s problems , this is bad economics driving bad politics .
in an era of open-ended us government budget deficits and chronic shortfalls in personal saving , america is doomed to suffer subpar savings and massive multilateral trade deficits for as far as the eye can see .
in that ve in , closing down trade with china , while failing to address the saving shortfall , is like putting pressure on one end of a water ballo on .
the chinese component of america ’ s multilateral trade deficit will simply migrate somewhere else – most likely to a higher- cost producer .
that would be the functional equivalent of a tax hike on beleaguered american families – hardly the solution that us politicians are promising .
this is not to ignore important us-china trade issues that need to be addressed .
market access should be high on the agenda – especially for a sluggish us economy that needs new sources of growth , like exports .
with china now america ’ s third largest – and by far its most rapidly growing – export market , the us should push hard to expand business opportunities in china , especially as the chinese economy til ts increasingly toward internal demand .
china should be viewed as an opportunity , not a threat .
at the same time , the us government should come clean with the american public about charges of chinese currency manipulation and unfair trade practices .
the renminbi has , in fact , appreciated by 30 % relative to the us dollar since mid- 2005 .
in broad multilateral terms – a far more meaningful gauge because it measures a currency ’ s value against a broad cross- section of a country ’ s trading partners – the “ real effective ” renminbi currently stands about 8 % above its most recent 12 -year average ( 199 8- 2010 ) .
yes , china continues to accumulate a vast fund of foreign-exchange reserves .
china- bashing in the us speaks to a corrosive shift in the american psych e .
it defl ects attention away from those truly responsible for perpetuating the greatest saving shortfall in history .
washington has been seduc ed by the political economy of false prosperity .
that seduc tion has encouraged america to squ ander its savings and live beyond its means for nearly two decades .
now the game is up .
the ultimate test of any nation ’ s character is to look inside itself at moments of great challenge . swept up in the blame game , the us is doing the opposite .
and that could well be the greatest tragedy of all .
after all , america ’ s 88 deficits did not arise of thin air .
the american consumer is not ok ay
new haven – the sp in- doctors are hard at work talking up america ’ s subpar economic recovery .
all eyes are on households .
thanks to falling unemployment , rising home values , and record stock prices , an emerging consensus of forecasters , market participants , and policymakers has now concluded that the american consumer is finally back .
don ’ t believe it .
first , consider the facts : over the 21 quarters since the beginning of 2008 , real ( inflation-adjusted ) personal consumption has risen at an average annual rate of just 0.9 % .
that is by far the most protracted period of weakness in real us consumer demand since the end of world war ii – and a massive slowdown from the pre-crisis pace of 3.6 % annual real consumption growth from 1996 to 2007 .
with household consumption accounting for about 70 % of the us economy , that 2. 7- percentage-point gap between pre-crisis and post-crisis trends has been enough to kno ck 1.9 percentage points off the post-crisis trend in real gdp growth .
look no further for the cause of unacceptably high us unemployment .
to appreciate fully the unique character of this consumer- demand shortfall , trends over the past 21 quarters need to be broken down into two distinct sub- periods .
first , there was a 2.2 % annualized decline from the first quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2009 .
this was crisis- driven carnage , highlighted by a 4.5 % annualized collapse in the final two quarters of 2008 .
second , this six- quarter plunge was followed , from mid- 2009 through early 2013 , by 15 quarters of annualized consumption growth averaging just 2 % – an upturn that pal es in comparison with what would have been expected based on past consumer- spending cycles .
that key point appears all but lost on the consumer- recovery crowd .
in recent speeches and discussions with current and former central bankers , i have been criticized for focusing too much on the 0.9 % trend of the past 21 quarters and paying too little attention to the 2 % recovery phase of the post-crisis period .
at least it ’ s a recovery , they claim , and a sign of healing that can be attributed mainly to the heroic , unconventional efforts of the us federal reserve .
this brings us to the second part of the argument against optimism : analytics .
one of the first concepts to which an economics student is exposed in a basic macro course is “ p ent- up ” consumer demand .
discretionary consumption is typically deferred during recessions , especially for long-lasting durable goods such as motor vehicles , fur nit ure , and appliances .
once the recession ends and recovery begins , a “ stock - adjustment ” response takes hold , as households compensate for for eg one replacement and update their aging durable goods .
over most of the postwar period , this post- recession release of p ent- up consumer demand has been a powerful source of support for economic recovery .
by contrast , the release of p ent- up demand in the current cycle amounted to just 3 % annualized growth in the five quarters from early 2010 to early 2011 .
moreover , the strongest quarterly gain was a 4.1 % increase in the fourth quarter of 2010 .
this is a stunning result .
the worst consumer recession in modern history , featuring a record collapse in dur able- goods expenditures in 2008-2009 , should have triggered an outsize surge of p ent- up demand .
yet it did anything but that .
instead , the release of p ent- up consumer demand was literally half that of previous business cycles .
the third point is more diagnostic : the shoc kingly anemic pattern of post-crisis us consumer demand has resulted from a deep japan -like balance-sheet recession .
with the benefit of hindsight , we now know that the 12 -year pre-crisis us consumer- spending binge was built on a precarious foundation of asset and credit bubbles .
when those bubbles burst , consumers were left with a massive overhang of excess debt and subpar saving .
the post- bubble aversion to spending , and the related focus on balance-sheet repair , reflects what nom ura research institute economist richard ko o has called a powerful “ debt rejection ” syndrome .
while ko o applied this framework to japanese firms in japan ’ s first lost decade of the 1990 ’ s , it rings true for america ’ s crisis- battered consumers , who are still struggling with the lingering pressures of excessive debt lo ads , underwater mortgages , and woefully inadequate personal saving .
through its unconventional monetary easing , the fed is attempting to create a short cut around the imperative of household sector balance-sheet repair .
this is where the wealth effects of now- reb ounding housing prices and a surging stock market come into play .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all that they are made out to be ?
yes , the stock market is now at an all-time high – but only in current dollars .
in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak .
similarly , while the case- sh iller index of us home prices is now up 1 0.2 % over the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak .
wealth creation matters , but not until it re coups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
sadly , most american households are still far from recovery on the asset side of their balance sheets .
moreover , though the us unemployment rate has fallen , this largely reflects an alarming decline in labor-force participation , with more than 6.5 million americans since 2006 having given up looking for work .
at the same time , while consumer confidence is on the mend , it remains well below pre-crisis read ings .
in short , the american consumer ’ s nightmare is far from over .
spin and fro thy markets aside , the healing has only just begun .
america ’ s political recession
berkeley – the odds are now about 36 % that the united states will be in a recession next year .
the reason is entirely political : partisan polarization has reached levels never before seen , threatening to send the us economy tum bling over the “ fiscal cliff ” – the automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect at the beginning of 2013 unless democrats and republicans agree otherwise .
more than a century ago , during the first gil ded age , american politics was sharply polarized as well .
in 18 96 , future president the od ore roosevelt was a republican attack dog .
he denounced democratic presidential candidate william j en nings br yan as a mere pup pet of the sinister governor of ill in ois , john peter al t g eld .
the “ free coin age of silver ” would be “ but a step towards the general socialism which is the fundamental doctrine of his political belief . ”
he and al t g eld “ seek to over turn the ... essential policies which have controlled the government since its foundation . ”
such language is as extreme as any we hear today – and from a man who was shortly to become vice president ( and later president , following the assassination of william mckin ley ) .
we have heard texas governor rick per ry call ob liqu ely for the lyn ching of his fellow republican , federal reserve chairman ben bernanke , should he come to the l one star state .
and we have seen kansas secretary of state kr is k ob ach explore the possibility of removing president barack obama from the ballot in kansas , because , k ob ach suggested , obama is “ not a natural- born citizen . ”
but neither per ry nor k ob ach is likely ever to be a us president , whereas the od ore roosevelt was more than a partisan .
he was happy to make deals with democrats – to put himself at the head not just of the republican party but of the bipartisan progressive coalition , trying either to yo ke the two forces together or to t ack back and forth between them to achieve legislative and policy goals .
obama broadly follows ronald reagan ’ s ( second- term ) security policy , george h.w . bush ’ s spending policy , bill clinton ’ s tax policy , the bipartisan squ am lake group ’ s financial- regulatory policy , per ry ’ s immigration policy , john mccain ’ s climate-change policy , and mitt romney ’ s health-care policy ( at least when romney was governor of massachusetts ) .
and yet he has gotten next to no republicans to support their own policies .
indeed , like clinton before him , obama has been unable to get republican senators like su san coll ins to vote for her own campaign - finance policies , mccain to vote for his own climate-change policy , and – most laugh ably – romney to support his own health-care plan .
likewise , he has been unable to get republican vice- presidential candidate paul ryan to endorse his own medicare cost- control proposals .
there are obvious reasons for this .
a large ch unk of the republican base , including many of the party ’ s largest donors , believes that any democratic president is an illegitimate enemy of america , so that whatever such an incumbent proposes must be wrong and thus should be thwarted .
and the republican cad res believe this of obama even more than they believed it of clinton .
this view clearly influences republican offic e- holders , who fear the partisan be ast that man s their campaigns ’ phone banks and holds the pur se strings .
moreover , ever since clinton ’ s election in 1992 , those at the head of the republican party have believed that creating gridlock whenever a democrat is in the white house , and thus demonstrating the government ’ s in capacity to act , is their best path to electoral success .
that was the republicans ’ calculation in 2011- 2012 .
and november ’ s election did not change the balance of power anywhere in the american government : obama remains president , the republicans remain in control of the house of representatives , and the democrats control the senate .
now , it is possible that republican legislators may rebel against their leaders , arguing that they ran for office to govern , not to paraly ze the government in the hope that doing so will give the party power to reign as it wishes after the next election .
it is possible that republican leaders like representatives john bo e hner and eric can tor and senator mit ch mc connell will conclude that their policy of obstruc tion has been a failure .
they might note that , although the economy remains deeply troubled and depressed in the aftermath of a financial crisis for which they set the stage , obama ’ s policies have been by far the most successful of those in any major advanced country , and conclude that he has been a relatively good president , and one worth supporting .
but don ’ t count on it .
right now , every senior politician in america is telling their favor ites in the press that they are confident that compromise on the “ fiscal cliff ” will be reached before the end of december .
but they are telling their favor ites this because they think that pessimism now will lead to their being blamed for gridlock later .
it seems to me that the odds are around 60 % that real negotiation will not begin until tax rates go up on january 1 .
and it seems to me that , if gridlock continues into 2013 , the odds are 60 % that it will tip the us back into recession .
let us hope that it will be short and shallow .
b ye - by e , middle east ?
paris – for some time now , a certain strategic vision has been gaining traction : the united states is becoming energy- independent , paving the way for its political retreat from the middle east and justifying its strategic “ pivot ” toward asia .
energy- hungry america has long depended on the global market to meet domestic demand .
in 2005 , the us imported 60 % of the energy that it consumed .
since then , however , the share of imports has decreased , and it should continue to do so .
the us is expected to become energy self-sufficient in 2020 , and to become an oil exporter by 2030 .
this scenario would grant the us three enormous advantages .
it would enhance us economic competitiveness , especially relative to europe , given the lower costs involved in the extraction of shale gas .
it would also reduce america ’ s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world .
finally , it would increase the relative vulnerability of america ’ s main strategic rival , china , which is becoming increasingly dependent on middle east energy supplies .
these facts obviously need to be taken seriously , but their implications for us foreign policy in the middle east should not be too has tily drawn .
above all , though energy dependence is a key element of us policy in the region , it is far from being the only factor .
israel ’ s security and the desire to contain iran are equally important .
moreover , the middle east ’ s role in the global geopolitics of energy will grow in the coming decades , making it difficult to see how a superpower like the us could simply walk away from the region .
within the next 15 years , opec countries will account for 50 % of global oil production , compared to only 42 % today .
furthermore , the country on which this increase will most likely hin ge is iraq .
could the us ignore a country that in roughly ten years will become the world ’ s second-largest oil exporter , generating more than $ 200 billion annually in revenue , while increasingly being dominated by an authoritarian shia regime that is close to iran ?
would it withdraw in the face of the consequ ent strategic threat to its three allies – saudi arabia , turkey , and israel – in the region ?
such a possibility seems even more far-fetched as long as the iranian nuclear crisis remains unresolved and the syrian crisis continues to widen the region ’ s shia- sunni divide ( reflected in increased tension between turkey and iran ) .
even as us president barack obama was visiting asia in november – a trip meant to underscore america ’ s “ pivot ” – he was forced to devote considerable time and attention to medi ating a cease-fire between israel and hamas in gaza .
indeed , if oil were truly america ’ s only or paramount interest in the middle east , its special relationship with israel would be my sti fying , given the harm that it implies for us interests among arab oil exporters .
even when its energy dependence on the middle east was at its peak , the us rarely altered its policy of support for israel .
it is also important to bear in mind that in 1973 , the us suffered less from the opec oil embargo than europe did , even though america , which had re supplied israel in its war with egypt and syria in october of that year , was the primary target .
in the end , america ’ s position in the region strengthened after egypt became a us ally and made peace with israel .
china ’ s growing interest in the middle east also decreas es the likelihood of an american withdrawal .
the us will remain concerned about ensuring the security of energy supplies for its asian allies , which , like china , are increasingly dependent on the region ’ s oil exporters .
nevertheless , while an american withdrawal from the middle east seems highly unlikely , us exposure to the region will indeed decline ; as that happens , america ’ s role there will probably become more subdued – and perhaps more cynical .
its involvement in the israeli-palestinian conflict will likely be limited to maintaining the status quo rather than seeking a comprehensive settlement .
this stance – suggested by america ’ s opposition to granting palestine obser ver - state status at the united nations – would amount to an admission by the us that it has given up on the creation of two states in the middle east .
that would certainly satisfy israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu and the palestinian fringe seeking to weaken the palestinian authority .
but it would fully v indicate those who believe that obama is more a man of good will than a visionary .
has the united states transc ended the laws of economics ?
as the new year begins , the us continues to race ahead of its rich-country counterparts .
the g arg an tu an us trade deficit ?
no problem .
in 2005 , it widened further , and the dollar only strengthened .
low investment and a deteriorating primary education system ?
not to worry .
the super- flexible us economy keeps managing to produce more with less .
nor are there any signs of america ’ s economic hegemony starting to fold under the weight of maintaining its unilateral military dominance .
instead of feeling the pin ch of wartime priv ations , like in any ordinary country , american consumers are b inging as if it were christmas all year round .
there are those who truly believe in the idea that america is exceptional .
those true believers argue that america ’ s consumers can long pursue their sp end thrift ways because their country ’ s economy is better than everyone else ’ s .
the us labor market is more flexible than europe ’ s , enabling it to react more nim bly to the ever shifting sands of globalization .
and , unlike most countries , especially in latin america and asia , the us system ruth lessly pr un es weak corporate leadership .
moreover , the true believers cite america ’ s better- funded and hyper- competitive university system , which suc ks in a disproportionate share of the world ’ s top students and researchers .
many ultimately choose to imm igrate to america permanently , and it is relatively easy for them to do so , thanks to a society that still wel comes outsiders with open arms ( even if things have become more difficult since 2001 ) .
on top of all this , the us military , rather than being a burden , feeds the country ’ s technological superiority by subsidizing basic research .
by contrast , skeptics hold that the us economy already contains the seeds of its own socio- economic decline .
they point to worsening income inequality , as images be amed worldwide from post- hurricane new orleans illustrated all too clearly .
poor children do not have reasonable access to health care .
nor are the non- poor f aring particularly well , as wage growth has remained virtually flat for a very long time , even as corporate profits are booming .
indeed , this disconnect may explain why polls do not give president bush the credit for economic management that his strong record would seem to merit . nor does it help americans ’ mood that they spend far more of their lives working than do citizens in europe or , these days , even japan .
all of these factors place deep stresses on the social fabric which , so the skeptics argue , will ultimately play out in the political arena .
interestingly , both sides cite america ’ s g aping trade deficit – believe it or not , the us is so aking up two-thirds of global excess saving – to support their arguments .
the true believers view the deficits as evidence that the world recognizes how special the us is and wants to buy in . skeptics see an empire living on borrowed money and borrowed time .
so which is it ?
in my view , those who think that america is about to collapse are likely to be disappointed .
nevertheless , i suspect that the age of american exceptionalism is near an end , and soon per capita income in europe and japan will approach that of the us , rather than falling farther behind .
though the next few years are likely to underscore some of the weaknesses that the skeptics highlight , the end will come mainly because other countries will find creative ways to mim ic the most effective us institutions , albeit within their own legal , political , and social frameworks .
the last 15 years have of course revealed deep flaws in japan ’ s financial system .
but another major factor contributing to japan ’ s decline was that firms elsewhere began adopting japanese methods , such as just- in- time supply chains .
surely , im itation will someday imp inge on superior us growth performance as well .
perhaps the biggest weakness in the true believers ’ argument is the trade deficit .
for the moment , america ’ s ability to borrow vast sums at low interest rates acts like a huge dose of ster o ids on the economy . it artificially pro ps up consumption growth and allows the government to def er hard choices between taxes and military expenditures .
at some point , the party is going to end .
the unwinding of the us economy might even begin in 2006 , particularly if japan continues to grow out of its dol drums , the us housing market sof tens dramatically , and europe ’ s economic recovery accelerates .
individually , these are each highly plausible scenarios , and collectively they would hit the us trade deficit like a perfect storm .
perhaps the end will come in a different way , but it is difficult to imagine the age of us exceptionalism lasting indefinitely .
can the end come abruptly in 2006 ?
this is not the most likely scenario , but it is not unthinkable .
america ’ s strategy vacuum
new haven – apparently , policymakers at the federal reserve are having second thoughts about the wisdom of open-ended quantitative easing ( qe ) .
they should .
not only has this untested policy experiment failed to deliver an acceptable economic recovery ; it has also heightened the risk of another crisis .
the minutes of the january 2 9- 30 meeting of the fed ’ s federal open market committee ( fomc ) speak to a simmering discontent : “ [ m ] any particip ant s … expressed some concerns about potential costs and risks arising from further asset purchases . ”
the concerns range from worries about the destabilizing ramifications of an exit strategy from qe to apprehension about capital losses on the fed ’ s rapidly ballo oning portfolio of securities ( currently $ 3 trillion , and on its way to $ 4 trillion by the end of this year ) .
as serious as these concerns may be , they overlook what could well be the greatest flaw in the fed ’ s unprecedented gambit : an emphasis on short-term tactics over longer-term strategy .
blind sided by the crisis of 2007-2008 , the fed has compounded its original mis diagnosis of the problem by repeatedly doubling down on tactical responses , with two rounds of qe preceding the current , open-ended iter ation .
the fomc , drawing a false sense of comfort from the success of qe 1 – a massive liquidity injection in the depths of a horrific crisis – mistakenly came to believe that it had found the right tem plate for subsequent policy actions .
that approach might have worked had the us economy been afflicted by a cyclical disease – a temporary shortfall of aggregate demand .
in that case , countercyclical policies – both fiscal and monetary – could eventually be expected to plug the demand hole and get the economy going again , just as keynesians argue .
but the us is not suffering from a temporary , cyclical mal ady . it is afflicted by a very different disease : a protracted balance-sheet recession that continues to hob ble american households , whose consumption accounts for roughly 70 % of gdp .
two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families borrowed freely , have long since burst .
but the after shocks ling er : house hol d- debt lo ads were still at 1 13 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and the person al- saving rate averaged just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7. 9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) .
understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , us consumers have not taken the ba it from their monetary and fiscal authorities .
instead , they have cut back on spending .
gains in inflation-adjusted person al- consumption expenditure have averaged a mere 0.8 % over the past five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in consumer demand growth in the post-world war ii era .
the br ute force of massive monetary and fiscal stimulus rings hollow as a cyclical remedy to this problem .
the focus , instead , should be on accelerating the process of balance-sheet repair , while at the same time returning monetary and fiscal policy levers to more normal settings .
forgiveness of “ underwater ” mortgages ( where the outstanding loan exceeds the home ’ s current market value ) , as well as reducing the forec los ure overhang of some 1.5 million homes , must be part of that solution .
how else can the crisis- battered housing market finally clear for the remainder of us homeowners ?
the same can be said for enhanced saving incentives , which would contribute to longer-term financial security for american households , most of which suffered massive wealth losses in the great recession .
expanded individual retirement accounts and 40 1 k pension schemes , special incentives for low-income households ( most of which have no retirement plans ) , and an end to the financial repression that the fed ’ s zero- interest-rate policy imposes on savers must also be part of the solution .
yes , these are controversial policies .
debt forgiveness raises thor ny ethical concerns about con don ing reckless and irresponsible behavior .
but converting underwater “ non- recourse ” mortgage loans , where only the house is at risk , into so-called “ recourse liabilities , ” for which non payment would have consequences for all of a borrower ’ s assets , could address this concern , while simultaneously temper ing america ’ s culture of leverage with a much greater sense of responsibility .
timing is also an issue , especially with respect to saving incentives .
to avoid the shortfall in aggregate demand that might arise from an abrupt surge in saving , these measures should be phased in over a period of 3- 5 years .
the main benefit of these proposals is that they are more strategic than tactical – better aligned with the balance-sheet problems that are actually afflicting the economy .
as the qu int essential laissez-faire system , the us has outsourced strategy to the invisible hand of the market for far too long .
that has left the government locked into a re active and often misguided approach to unexpected problems .
thus , the fed is focused on cleaning up after a crisis rather than on how to avoid another one .
the same is true of us fiscal policy , with an ev ent- driven debate that now has ever- shorter time horizons : the fiscal cliff on january 1 , sequ estr ation of expenditures on march 1 , exp ir ation of the continuing budget resolution on march 27 , and the new may 18 debt- ceiling limit .
a compliant bond market , which may well be the next bubble , is mistakenly viewed as the ultimate valid ation of this my op ic approach .
the dangers of america ’ s strategy vacuum and the related penchant for short-termism have been mounting for some time .
harvard business school professor michael porter famously raised this concern in a 1996 article in the harvard business review .
his focus was on corporate decision-making and mis aligned incentives leading to a worrisome dic ho tom y between the short-term tactics of “ operational effectiveness ” ( cost cutting , outsourcing , and re engineering ) and the long-term visionary bets that frame successful strategies .
while porter ’ s critique was directed at business managers , it bears critically on the current us policy debate .
a successful long-term strategy can not be seen as a succession of short-term fixes .
the internal debate in the fomc represents a healthy and long-overdue recognition that the central bank may be di gging itself into an ever- deeper hole by committing to misguided policies aimed at the wrong problem .
a comparable debate is raging over fiscal policy .
can america finally face up to the perils of its strategy vacuum ?
america ’ s political class struggle
new york – america is on a collision course with itself .
this month ’ s deal between president barack obama and the republicans in congress to extend the tax cuts initiated a decade ago by president george w. bush is being hailed as the start of a new bipartisan consensus . i believe , instead , that it is a false truce in what will become a pit ched battle for the soul of american politics .
as in many countries , conflicts over public morality and national strategy come down to questions of money . in the united states , this is tru er than ever .
the us is running an annual budget deficit of around $ 1 trillion , which may widen further as a result of the new tax agreement .
the problem is america ’ s corrup ted politics and loss of civic morality .
one political party , the republicans , stands for little except tax cuts , which they place above any other goal .
the democrats have a bit wider set of interests , including support for health care , education , training , and infrastructure .
but , like the republicans , the democrats , too , are keen to show er tax cuts on their major campaign contributors , predominantly rich americans .
the result is a dangerous paradox .
the us budget deficit is enormous and unsustainable .
the poor are squeezed by cuts in social programs and a weak job market .
one in eight americans depends on food st amps to eat .
yet , despite these circumstances , one political party wants to gut tax revenues altogether , and the other is easily dragged along , against its better instincts , out of concern for keeping its rich contributors happy .
this tax- cutting frenzy comes , incredibly , after three decades of elite fiscal rule in the us that has favored the rich and powerful .
since ronald reagan became president in 1981 , america ’ s budget system has been geared to supporting the accumulation of vast wealth at the top of the income distribution .
amaz ingly , the richest 1 % of american households now has a higher net worth than the bottom 90 % .
the annual income of the richest 1 2,000 households is greater than that of the poorest 24 million households .
the republican party ’ s real game is to try to lock that income and wealth advantage into place .
they fear , rightly , that sooner or later everyone else will begin demanding that the budget deficit be closed in part by raising taxes on the rich .
after all , the rich are living better than ever , while the rest of american society is suffering .
it makes sense to tax them more .
the republicans are out to prevent that by any means .
this month , they succeeded , at least for now .
but they want to follow up their tactical victory – which postpon es the restoration of pre- bush tax rates for a couple of years – with a longer-term victory next spring .
their leaders in congress are already declaring that they will slash public spending in order to begin reducing the deficit .
ironically , there is one area in which large budget cuts are certainly warranted : the military .
but that is the one item most republicans won ’ t touch .
they want to slash the budget not by ending the useless war in afghanistan , and by eliminating unnecessary weapons systems , but by cutting education , health , and other benefits for the poor and working class .
in the end , i don ’ t think they will succeed .
for the moment , most americans seem to be going along with republican arguments that it is better to close the budget deficit through spending cuts rather than tax increases .
yet when the actual budget proposals are made , there will be a growing backlash .
with their backs against the wall , i predict , poor and working-class americans will begin to ag itate for social justice .
this may take time .
everything now is about money to run electoral campaigns , which have become incredibly expensive .
the mid-term elections cost an estimated $ 4.5 billion , with most of the contributions coming from big corporations and rich contributors .
these powerful forces , many of which operate anonym ously under us law , are working relentlessly to defend those at the top of the income distribution .
but make no mistake : both parties are implicated .
there is already talk that obama will raise $ 1 billion or more for his re-election campaign .
that sum will not come from the poor .
the problem for the rich is that , other than military spending , there is no place to cut the budget other than in areas of core support for the poor and working class .
is america really going to cut health benefits and retirement income ? will it really balance the budget by slashing education spending at a time when us students already are being out- performed by their asian counterparts ?
will america really let its public infrastructure continue to deteriorate ?
the rich will try to push such an agenda , but ultimately they will fail .
obama swept to power on the promise of change .
so far there has been none .
his administration is filled with wall street bankers .
his top officials leave to join the banks , as his budget director peter or s z ag recently did .
he is always ready to serve the interests of the rich and powerful , with no line in the sand , no limit to “ compromise . ”
if this continues , a third party will emerge , committed to cleaning up american politics and restoring a measure of decency and fairness .
this , too , will take time .
the political system is deeply skewed against challenges to the two incumbent parties .
yet the time for change will come .
the republicans believe that they have the upper hand and can per vert the system further in favor of the rich . i believe that they will be proved wrong .
america 's problems run deeper than wall street
cambridge – with less than two months remaining before america ’ s presidential election , much attention is focused on the state of the american economy and the challenges that it will present to the next president .
we are in the midst of a financial crisis caused by the serious mis pricing of all kinds of risks and by the collapse of the housing bubble that developed in the first half of this decade .
what started as a problem with sub-prime mortgages has now spread to houses more generally , as well as to other asset classes .
the housing problem is contributing to the financial crisis , which in turn is reducing the supply of credit needed to sustain economic activity .
indeed , the financial crisis has worsened in recent weeks , reflected in the us federal reserve ’ s takeover of quasi- government mortgage lenders fannie mae and freddie mac – which may cost american taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars – as well as the bankruptcy of lehman brothers and the sale of mer r ill lyn ch .
ultimately , these financial failures reflect the downward spiral of house prices and the increasing number of homes with negative equity , i.e. , with substantial mortgage debt in excess of market values .
negative equity is significant because mortgages in the united states are generally “ no recourse ” loans .
if a home owner defaults , creditors can take the house , but they can not take other property or income to make up any unpaid balance .
we can not be sure about how much further house prices will fall .
experts say another 15 % decline is required just to return to the pre- bubble price path .
but there is nothing to stop the decline from continuing once it reaches that point .
the growing gap between mortgage debts and house prices will continue to increase the rate of defaults .
many homeowners who can afford to make their mortgage payments will choose to default , move to r ental housing , and wait to purchase until house prices have declined further .
as homeowners with large negative equity default , the forec los ed homes contribute to the excess supply that drives prices down further .
and the lower prices lead to more negative equity and therefore to more defaults and forec lo sures .
it is not clear what will stop this self-reinforcing process .
declining house prices are key to the financial crisis and the outlook for the economy , because mortgage-backed securities , and the derivatives based on them , are the primary assets that are weakening financial institutions .
until house prices stabilize , these securities can not be valued with any confidence .
and that means that the financial institutions that own them can not have confidence in the liquidity or solvency of potential counter parties – or even in the value of their own capital .
without this confidence , credit will not flow and economic activity will be constrained .
moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , the shortage of credit is exacerbated by their need to deleverage .
since raising capital is difficult and costly , they deleverage by lending less .
but the macroeconomic weakness in the us now goes beyond the decreased supply of credit . falling house prices reduce household wealth and therefore consumer spending .
falling employment lowers wage and salary incomes .
the higher prices of food and energy depress real incomes further .
and declining economic activity in the rest of the world is lowering demand for us exports .
the us federal reserve has , in my judgment , responded appropriately by reducing the federal funds interest rate sharply and creating a variety of new credit facilities .
the low interest rate helped by making the dollar more competitive , but otherwise monetary policy appears to have lost traction because of the condition of the housing sector and the dysfunctional state of the credit markets .
the us congress and the bush administration enacted a $ 100 billion tax reb ate in an attempt to stimulate consumer spending .
those of us who supported this policy generally knew that history and economic theory implied that such one-time fiscal transfers have little effect , but we thought that this time might be different .
our support was , in the words of samu el johnson , a triumph of hope over experience .
in the end , our hopes were frustrated .
the official national income accounting data for the second quarter are now available , and they show that the reb ates did very little to stimulate spending .
more than 80 % of the reb ate dollars were saved or used to pay down debt .
very little was added to current spending .
so that is where the us is now : in the middle of a financial crisis , with the economy sliding into recession , monetary policy already at maximum easing , and fiscal transfers im potent .
that is an un enviable situation , to say the least , for any incoming president .
ar l ington – the rapprochement between the united states and myanmar ( burma ) has proceeded at a b list ering pace .
a year ago , the two countries did not even have ambass ad ors in each other ’ s capitals .
in may , president the in sein became the first leader from myanmar to visit the white house in nearly a half-century .
but has barack obama ’ s administration been too quick to embrace what was , until recently , one of the world ’ s most repressive regimes ?
or , on the contrary , is decisive us support essential to myanmar ’ s fled gling reform process ?
until the recent opening , myanmar , which gained independence in 1948 , had been ruled by a secre tive military junta since 1962 .
as recently as 2010 , the regime held elections so blat antly rigged that the main opposition party refused to participate .
but in 2011 , shortly before assuming the presidency , sein , a general who served as prime minister under the junta , began to take steps that impressed even the most skeptical observers .
unlike the token gestures of reform offered by previous rulers , sein ’ s actions appeared substantive and meaningful .
one important change was the release of hundreds of political prisoners , including the regime ’ s most prominent opponent , aung san suu kyi , who had been under house arrest for nearly 15 years .
moreover , sein initiated a dialogue with suu kyi , a nobel peace prize winner and the leader of the national league for democracy ( n ld ) , about a transition to civilian rule .
the subsequent elections bolstered hope for myanmar ’ s democratic future .
in 1990 , when the n ld won 81 % of the seats in parliament , the junta promptly vo ided the results and arrested suu kyi .
in 2012 , the n ld won 43 of the 44 seats that it contested , and the military accepted suu kyi as the reform movement ’ s legitimate leader .
furthermore , sein has reached out to the kar en , k ach in , and other ethnic minorities – groups whose members have suffered decades of official persecution and mistre at ment .
and efforts to open myanmar ’ s economy to international trade have transformed the country ’ s commercial capital , y ang on ( ran go on ) , with businesspeople now arriving on direct flights from at least a half- dozen foreign capitals and once- empty streets now cong ested with imported cars .
but , in some areas , reform has been painfully slow .
in fact , when it comes to human rights and minority protections , myanmar may even be regres sing .
the liberalization process has exposed the country ’ s long-standing religious divisions , leading to a wave of sectarian violence aimed primarily at the minority muslim community .
from coastal ra kh ine to in land towns like me ik til a and tat k on , buddhist monks have incited violence against muslims ( and sometimes vice versa ) , with local officials often tac itly permitting religious blood letting .
at his meeting with sein in washington , dc , obama condemned the violence against myanmar ’ s muslims , which has displaced many of them .
on the same day , the us state department released its annual report on religious freedom , in which myanmar was included among the world ’ s eight worst off enders .
this has not always been the case .
although myanmar is an overwhelmingly buddhist country , dozens of religious and ethnic communities have long lived there side by side .
in the heart of y ang on , the golden d ome of the su le p ag oda stands just across the street from the min are ts of the beng ali mosque .
in order to achieve the peace and stability needed to consolidate myanmar ’ s democratic transition , both sein and suu kyi should do more to establish themselves as representatives of all of myanmar ’ s citizens .
muslims need to be assured of their personal security and guaranteed full civil rights .
the obama administration has st aked significant political capital on the w ager that myanmar ’ s promise may finally bear fruit .
and , indeed , the rate of change in myanmar over the last two years has been nothing short of remarkable .
how it cop es with these problems – and those that have yet to arise – will determine whether america has given its blessing prematurely .
america 's renminbi fix ation
new york – for seven years , the united states has allowed its fix ation on the renminbi ’ s exchange rate to defl ect attention from far more important issues in its economic relationship with china .
the upcoming strategic and economic dialogue between the us and china is an excellent opportunity to examine – and rethink – america ’ s priorities .
since 2005 , the us congress has repeatedly flir ted with legislation aimed at defending hard- pressed american workers from the presumed threat of a cheap chinese currency .
bipartisan support for such a measure sur faced when senators charles schum er ( a liberal democrat from new york ) and lin d sey gra ham ( a conservative republican from south carolina ) introduced the first chinese currency bill .
the argument for legislative action is tant aliz ingly simple : the us merchandise trade deficit has averaged a record 4.4 % of gdp since 2005 , with china accounting for fully 35 % of the shortfall , supposedly owing to its currency manipulation .
the chinese , insists a broad coalition of politicians , business leaders , and academic economists , must re value or face sanctions .
this reasoning resonates with the us public .
opinion polls conducted in 2011 found that fully 61 % of americans believes that china represents a serious economic threat .
as such , the currency debate looms as a major issue in the upcoming us presidential campaign .
“ enough is enough , ” president barack obama replied , when qu er ied on the renminbi in the aftermath of his last meeting with chinese president hu jintao .
obama ’ s presumptive republican challenger , mitt romney , has promised to declare china guilty of currency manipulation the day he takes office .
but , however appealing this logic may be , it is wrong .
first , america ’ s trade deficit is multilateral : the us ran deficits with 88 nations in 2010 .
a multilateral imbalance – especially one that it is trac eable to a saving shortfall – can not be fixed by putting pressure on a bilateral exchange rate .
indeed , america ’ s major threat is from within .
blaming china merely impedes the heavy lifting that must be done at home – namely , boosting saving by cutting budget deficits and encouraging households to save income rather than rely on asset bubbles .
second , the renminbi has now appreciated 3 1.4 % against the dollar since mid- 2005 , well in excess of the 2 7.5 % increase called for by the original schum er- gra ham bill .
mindful of the lessons of japan – especially its disastrous concession on sharp yen appreciation in the pl az a accord of 1985 – the chinese have opted , instead , for a gradual revaluation .
recent moves toward renminbi internationalization , a more open capital account , and wider currency trading bands leave little doubt that the endgame is a market-based , fully conver tible renminbi .
third , there has been significant improvement in china ’ s external imbalance .
the international monetary fund estimates that china ’ s current-account surplus will narrow to just 2.3 % of gdp in 2012 , after pe aking at 1 0.1 % in 2007 .
american officials have long b emo aned china ’ s saving glut as a major source of global instability .
but they should look in the mirror : america ’ s current-account deficit this year , at an estimated $ 5 10 billion , is likely to be 2.8 times higher than china ’ s surplus .
finally , china has evolved from the world ’ s factory to its assembly line .
research shows that no more than 20 % to 30 % of chinese exports to the us reflect value added inside china .
roughly 60 % of chinese exports represent ship ments of “ foreign invested enterprises ” – in effect , chinese subsidiaries of global multinationals .
think apple .
rather than vil ifying china as the principal economic threat to america , the relationship should be rec ast as an opportunity .
the largest component of us aggregate demand – the consumer – is on ice .
with households focused on repairing severely damaged balance sheets , inflation-adjusted private consumption has expanded at an anemic 0.5 % average annual rate over the past four years .
consumer deleveraging is likely to persist for years to come , leaving the us increasingly desperate for new sources of growth .
exports top the list of possibilities .
china is now america ’ s third largest and most rapidly growing export market .
there can be no mist aking its potential to fill some of the void left by us consumers .
the key to realizing that opportunity lies in access to chinese markets – all the more significant in light of china ’ s upcoming pro- consumption rebalancing .
historically , china has had an open development model , with imports running at 28 % of gdp since 2002 – nearly three times japan ’ s 10 % import ratio during its high-growth era ( 196 0- 1989 ) .
as a result , for a given incre ment of domestic demand , china is far more pre dis posed toward foreign sourcing .
as the chinese consumer emerges , demand for a wide variety of us- made goods – ranging from new - generation information technology and bio tech to autom otive components and aircraft – could surge .
the same is true of services .
at just 43 % of gdp , china ’ s services sector is relatively tiny .
there is enormous scope for america ’ s global services companies to expand in china , especially in transac tion s- intensive distribution sectors – wholesale and retail trade , domestic transportation , and supply- chain logistics – as well as in the processing segments of finance , health care , and data w are housing .
the us needs to re focus the us-china trade agenda toward expanded market access in these and other areas – pushing back against chinese policies and government procurement practices that favor domestic production and indigenous innovation .
some progress has been made , but more is needed – for example , getting china to join the world trade organization ’ s government procurement agreement .
at the same time , the us should reconsider antiqu ated cold war restrictions on chinese purchases of technology- intensive items .
for a growth- starved us , the opportunities of market access far outweigh the currency threat .
the long- dormant chinese consumer is about to be unleashed .
this plays to one of america ’ s greatest strengths – its zeal to compete in new markets .
shame on the us if it squand ers this extraordinary chance by di gging in its heels at the upcoming strategic and economic dialogue .
america 's retreat from asia
the united states ' planned withdrawal of troops from asia , which president george w. bush announced on august 16 , need not harm peace and stability in the region and particularly in korea .
but a key condition for a smooth re deployment of us troops is close consultations by america with its allies , something it has not done well up to now .
south korea and japan need to have their views taken into serious account if this now inevitable withdrawal is to succeed .
by contrast , unilaterally announcing the withdrawal - and then unilaterally implementing it - may harm the very purpose that the remaining us troops in asia are intended to serve : as suring deterrence , stability , and non proliferation in korea and asia .
the withdrawal plan is causing countless worries .
in japan , there are concerns that it will make the country america 's frontline command post in asia , possibly beyond the scope of its bilateral security treaty with the us .
one result is that china feels nervous about the implications of any expansion of the american- japanese military partnership .
in june , the bush administration revealed its plan to withdraw some 1 2,500 of the 3 7,000 us soldiers stationed in south korea by the end of 2005 . these include 3, 600 troops from the 2 n d brig ade of the 2 n d inf an try division , who are already ear marked for re deployment in iraq .
the us defense department justifies this change as part of the so-called `` global posture review '' that it has been carrying out to provide more flexibility and mobility in deploying troops to more urgently needed places around the world .
but the unilateral nature of the announcement , and the abrupt timing of the plan , has incited alarm in south korea , and perhaps in japan , that withdrawal could pose serious risks to the vital role that us forces have performed in deterring another war in korea .
south koreans genuinely fear that the plan may weaken deterrence by sending north korea - which is demanding a us military withdrawal while refusing to abandon its nuclear weapons ambitions - the message that intransigence pays .
indeed , it should not be forgotten that north korea maintains an army of 1.1 million troops .
moreover , the manner in which the bush administration unveiled its withdrawal plan has weakened the credibility of the us- korean alliance .
america 's unilateral announcement has fuel led rumors to the effect that withdrawal must have something to do with the rising tide of anti-americanism in south korea , and especially with the country 's reluctance and delay in dispat ching an additional 3, 600 of its own soldiers to iraq .
the bush administration tries to re but these charges by saying that the plan will not weaken the deterrence capabilities of american forces , for america 's far more powerful air and naval presence in the area will be maintained .
moreover , the us plans to strengthen south korea 's own forces by supplying some $ 11 billion worth of high- technology equipment over the next five years .
militarily , this argument does make sense .
politically and psychologically , however , the method , let alone the timing and implementation of the withdraw als , raises many questions about the ongoing viability of the us- korean security alliance , for the alliance now seems ad rift , without a common purpose and with little direction from either side .
yet the bush administration insists : `` the us views south korea as a strong and stead fast ally . we are committed to south korea 's security and to our alliance and partnership with seoul . ''
if washington is serious about these words , it should transform this commitment into a long-term and comprehensive alliance that can survive the current estr ang ement - and continue even after korean unification - by making a joint declaration with south korea 's government at the highest level .
in order to all ay mis giv ings and restore trust in the alliance , it is necessary for the us and south korea to reaffirm their common interests and values in pursuing deterrence , non proliferation , stability , and democracy on the korean peninsula and across asia .
once they resolve to continue their alliance with these purposes in mind , it should be possible for responsible officials to work out guiding principles for concrete security cooperation .
specific negotiations on withdrawing american troops from korea or on re deploying them from the d m z to south of seoul must be carried out according to these principles .
in so doing , america must treat south korea as a full partner with its own voice in making decisions that affect its security interests .
as an american ally for 51 years , and as east asia 's third-largest economy , south korea is entitled to be fully consulted on such decisions .
despite anti-american sentiments among some south koreans , a majority of the country 's people wants american forces to remain as a stabilizing force .
securing a peaceful and nuclear- free korean peninsula , a place where the interests of china , japan , russia , and america directly inter sect , is one of the most important security goals anywhere on the planet .
for this reason , america and south korea must restore a strategic vision for the future .
america 's sch iz oph ren ic economy
the news about america 's economy that dr ib bled out over the first half of march painted - once again - a picture that only a sch iz oph ren ic could create .
real investment ( investment adjusted for the declining prices of high-tech and information- related capital goods ) continued to ro ar ahead .
production and sales were consistent with the consensus forecast of real gdp growth at an annual rate of 4 % or more .
yet , despite all this , employment remained stagnant : net job creation in the united states continues to stall .
this does not mean that employment in america can not grow .
roughly 300,000 more americans are employed in education and health care than a year ago - an annual rate of employment growth of 1.7 % .
a quarter of a million more americans are employed in business and professional services than a year ago - a 1.6 % annual rate of employment growth .
this is easy to demonstrate .
total nominal spending in america grows at 5.5 % per year . inflation is 1.5 % per year .
and overall productivity growth is 3.5 % per year .
so the equation is simple : 5.5 % - 1.5 % - 3.5 % =  0.5 % .
that 0.5 % is all that is left for job growth , because that 's all the job growth required to meet demand given the remarkably strong rate of growth of productivity .
where america 's productivity growth is coming from is clear .
a relatively small part of it is coming from simple spe ed -up : in an economy where the amount of time it takes for the unemployed to find new jobs is close to a post-wwii record high , demands for spe ed ing -up the pace of work will be met with a `` yes , boss ! '' rather than a `` take this job and sho ve it ! ''
a bigger part of this increased productivity comes from the extraordinary technological revolutions in computers and communications that have led to dramatic increases in the usefulness - and decreas es in the cost - of high-tech capital .
the boost to wealth provided by the `` new economy '' is exceeding even its most a vid boo sters ' wil dest dreams .
what is unexpected is that the new wealth is flowing not to the shareholders of do t- com companies , but to purchas ers and users of high-tech capital and the consumers they serve .
but why does this seem so surprising ?
at the end of the nineteenth century the huge amount of investment and technological progress in america 's rail roads appeared to benefit everyone but the stock holders and bondholders of rail road companies , as bust followed boom and ram ming worth less securities down the thro ats of investors became wall street 's favorite sport .
yet another part of us productivity growth due to the fact that high-tech capital gives america 's firms enormous incentives to make massive but hard to see - and even harder to measure - investments in organization and business processes that are complementary to compu ter ization and networking .
for the us to have a rate of productivity growth of 3.5 % per ann um rather than the pre- 1995 rate of 1.2 % is amazing .
that means an annual incre ment to world income of $ 250 billion from this source alone .
that 's the equivalent of adding productive power equal to a quarter of the economy of india - and adding it every year .
this persistent acceleration in american productivity growth has , however , created a massive political problem for president george w. bush .
demand growth at a pace that in any previous decade would have been seen as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately insufficient , and bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) for the slack labor market that has resulted .
but for everyone except bush - and those left unemployed by the lag in demand - it is an extraordinary opportunity .
the remarkable boosts to productivity that have been within america 's grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth of real profits and real wages , if only us policy makers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient , but economically damaging , measures to `` protect '' output and employment .
as the world 's lead ing-edge economy , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must create - not only copy and adapt - new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations .
if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less- developed economies , especially since one powerful effect of ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make it much easier to participate in the global division of labor now centered in the us .
so the sch iz oph ren ic american economy is a sign that the world is entering an economic era of truly wonderful things - if only we properly , and pati ently , grasp them .
america ’ s scor ched earth management
signs of the american economy ’ s perilous condition are everywhere – from yawning fiscal and current-account deficits to plummeting home prices and a feeble dollar .
but something that shows up in none of the economic indicators may be driving many of them : the deterioration of american management , which is undermining not only many of america ’ s great enterprises , but also its legendary spirit of enterprise .
paradoxically , one indicator that has been improving steadily in the us – productivity – may be the clearest sign of the problem .
when it comes to productivity , managers either invest in employee training , more efficient manufacturing processes , and the like , or they take steps that appear to boost productivity in the short run but that erode it in the long run .
productivity is a measure of output per hour worked .
of course , no company can do that , but many us companies have been shedding workers and middle managers in great numbers – the figures for january 2008 were up 19 % from a year earlier .
meanwhile , those employees left behind must work that much harder , often without increased compensation .
workers ’ wages , adjusted for inflation , fell in 2007 , continuing a trend throughout this decade .
that , too , is “ productive ” – until these over worked people quit or burn out .
a sustainable company is not a collection of “ human resour c es . ” it is a community of human beings .
its strength re sides in its people , its culture , and the goodwill it has built up among its customers and suppliers .
so , as workers and middle managers have been depar ting these companies , they have taken with them not only much critical information , but often also the hearts and sou ls of their enterprises , with profound effects on american competitiveness .
consider high technology , where america is supposed to exc el .
according to a november 2006 report by the task force on the future of american innovation , made up of prominent universities , think tanks , industry trade associations , and corporations , the high-tech trade deficit widened in 2005 , for the third consecutive year .
this is not clothing or cars , but america ’ s largest , and most renowned , export sector .
this deficit reflects an underlying research deficit .
of the 25 companies granted the most us patents in 2006 , only eight were american ; 12 were japanese .
perhaps this helps to explain why , in a survey of more than 60,000 people in 29 countries conducted in 2007 by the new yor k -based reputation institute to rank the “ world ’ s most respected companies , ” the first us company on the list appeared in 15 th place ; the second was in 2 5th place .
no one can determine how much of america ’ s productivity gains in recent years have resulted from squeezing human capital , because such things are not measured .
but there has clearly been a great deal of reliance on this strategy , with companies shedding employees not only because they must , but often because they have not met wall street analysts ’ financial expectations .
managers ’ increased focus on maximizing shareholder value won many adherents when the idea was introduced in the 1980 ’ s : the im personal discipline of financial markets would force companies to become more productive and innovative .
and , in fact , much of the us productivity increase in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s can likely be attributed to large-scale investment in information and communications technology .
but , as the marginal productivity gains from such investment began to fall , senior managers ’ survival and compensation continued to be tied to stock-market performance .
as a result , many simply learned to manage their companies ’ short-term share price at the expense of attention to their products and customers .
moreover , because maximizing shareholder value is a poor incentive for workers and middle managers , companies ’ boards have increasingly centralized power around chief executives , thereby encouraging a “ heroic ” form of leadership that is det ached from the rest of the enterprise .
indeed , in many cases , the ceo – frequently a wall stre et- endorsed “ superstar ” par ach uted in to “ shake things up ” – now is the company , despite having little knowledge of its products , customers , and competitors .
this shift to “ heroic ” leadership can be seen in ballo oning ceo compensation .
according to a january 2008 report by the ha y group , the ceo ’ s of the 50 largest us companies are now paid almost three times what their european counterparts receive ­– which is many hundreds of times more than their own workers .
until recently , the us asset-price bubble ­– first in the stock market , then in real estate – masked the underlying depreciation of american enterprises .
but the bubble itself resulted from the same management path ologies as those afflicting the real economy .
after all , managing for the short run encouraged mortgage lenders to offer artificially low “ te as er ” interest rates to lure potential homeowners .
and then those who bought these mortgages never bothered to investigate their underlying value – a spectacular abdic ation of managerial responsibility .
now that the bubble has burst , america ’ s current economic downturn is likely to be far worse than previous ones , because us enterprises will have to be rebuilt , slowly and carefully .
the dramatic weakening of the us dollar may help america to narrow its massive trade deficit , but we should not expect any sustained improvement without drastic changes in american management .
while american economists , politicians , and business leaders have for years sought to sell their model of management abroad , many companies elsewhere have not been buying it .
as a result , other key economies remain healthier than america ’ s .
make no mistake : this problem was made in america , and that is where it will have to be solved .
america ’ s self-defeating hegemony
when i wrote about the “ end of history ” almost twenty years ago , one thing that i did not anticipate was the degree to which american behavior and mis judgments would make anti-americanism one of the chief fa ul t- lines of global politics .
and yet , particularly since the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , that is precisely what has happened , owing to four key mistakes made by the bush administration .
first , the doctrine of “ preemp tion , ” which was devised in response to the 2001 attacks , was in appropriately broadened to include iraq and other so-called “ rogue states ” that threatened to develop weapons of mass destruction .
to be sure , preemp tion is fully justified vis-à-vis stat eless terrorists wielding such weapons .
but it can not be the core of a general non-proliferation policy , whereby the united states interven es militarily everywhere to prevent the development of nuclear weapons .
the cost of executing such a policy simply would be too high ( several hundred billion dollars and tens of thousands of casualties in iraq and still counting ) .
this is why the bush administration has shi ed away from military confrontations with north korea and iran , despite its v ener ation of israel ’ s air strike on iraq ’ s osi ra k reactor in 1981 , which set back saddam hussein ’ s nuclear program by several years .
after all , the very success of that attack meant that such limited intervention could never be repeated , because would-be prolifer ators learned to bury , hide , or dupl icate their nascent weapons programs .
the second important miscalculation concerned the likely global reaction to america ’ s exercise of its hegemonic power .
many people within the bush administration believed that even without approval by the un security council or nato , american power would be legitimized by its successful use .
this had been the pattern for many us initiatives during the cold war , and in the balkans during the 1990 ’ s ; back then , it was known as “ leadership ” rather than “ unilateralism . ”
but , by the time of the iraq war , conditions had changed : the us had grown so powerful relative to the rest of the world that the lack of reciprocity became an intense source of irr itation even to america ’ s closest allies .
the structural anti-americanism arising from the global distribution of power was evident well before the iraq war , in the opposition to american- led globalization during the clinton years .
but it was exacerbated by the bush administration ’ s “ in- your - face ” disregard for a variety of international institutions as soon it came into office – a pattern that continued through the onset of the iraq war .
america ’ s third mistake was to overestimate how effective conventional military power would be in dealing with the weak states and networked transnational organizations that characterize international politics , at least in the broader middle east .
it is worth pon dering why a country with more military power than any other in human history , and that spends as much on its military as virtually the rest of the world combined , can not bring security to a small country of 24 million people after more than three years of occupation .
at least part of the problem is that it is dealing with complex social forces that are not organized into centralized hierarch ies that can enforce rules , and thus be deterred , coer ced , or otherwise manipulated through conventional power .
israel made a similar mistake in thinking that it could use its enormous margin of conventional military power to destroy hezbollah in last summer ’ s lebanon war .
both israel and the us are nostalgic for a twentieth-century world of nation-states , which is understandable , since that is the world to which the kind of conventional power they possess is best suited .
but nostalgia has led both states to mis interpret the challenges they now face , whether by linking al-qaeda to saddam hussein ’ s iraq , or hezbollah to iran and syria .
this link age does exist in the case of hezbollah , but the networked actors have their own social roots and are not simply pa w ns used by regional powers .
this is why the exercise of conventional power has become frustrating .
finally , the bush administration ’ s use of power has lacked not only a compelling strategy or doctrine , but also simple competence .
in iraq alone , the administration mis estimated the threat of w m d , failed to plan adequately for the occupation , and then proved unable to adjust quickly when things went wrong .
to this day , it has dropped the ball on very straightforward operational issues in iraq , such as funding democracy promotion efforts .
many of the voices that called for , and then bun g led , military intervention in iraq are now calling for war with iran .
why should the rest of the world think that conflict with a larger and more resolute enemy would be handled any more cap ably ?
but the fundamental problem remains the lop sided distribution of power in the international system .
any country in the same position as the us , even a democracy , would be tempted to exercise its hegemonic power with less and less restraint .
america ’ s founding fathers were motivated by a similar belief that unchecked power , even when democratically legitim ated , could be dangerous , which is why they created a constitutional system of internally separated powers to limit the executive .
such a system does not exist on a global scale today , which may explain how america got into such trouble .
a smo other international distribution of power , even in a global system that is less than fully democratic , would pose fewer temptations to abandon the prudent exercise of power .
america ’ s self-inflicted decline
melbourne – if the broad post-world war ii prosperity that has endured for six decades comes to an end , both the united states and europe will be responsible .
with rare exceptions , politics has become a discredited profession throughout the west .
tomorrow is always treated as more important than next week , and next week prevails over next year , with no one seeking to secure the long-term future .
now the west is paying the price .
president barack obama ’ s instincts may be an exception here , but he is fighting powerful hi deb ound forces in the united states , as well as a demagog ic populism , in the form of the tea party , that is far worse – and that might defeat him in 2012 , seriously damaging america in the process .
america ’ s friends around the world watched with dis may the recent bra w l in over raising the federal government ’ s debt ceiling , and the us congress ’ s inability to come to anything like a balanced and forward-looking compromise .
on the contrary , the outcome represents a significant victory for the tea party ’ s min ions , whose purpose seems to be to reduce government obligations and expenditures to a bare minimum ( some object even to having a central bank ) , and to maintain president george w. bush ’ s outrageous tax breaks for the wealthy .
america ’ s current fiscal problems are rooted in a long period of unfunded spending .
bush ’ s wars in afghanistan and iraq , and the manner in which he conducted the “ global war on terror ” made matters much worse , contributing to a totally unsustainable situation .
indeed , obama inherited an almost impossible legacy .
in the weeks since the debt ceiling agreement , it has become increasingly clear that good government might be impossible in the us .
the coming months of campaigning for the us presidency will be spent in petty bra w ling over what should be cut .
the example of recent weeks gives us no cause for optimism that us legislators will rise above partisan politics and ask themselves what is best for america .
in these circumstances , it is not surprising that financial markets have returned to extreme volatility .
the expenditure cuts mandated by the outcome of the debt- ceiling debate will reduce economic activity , thereby undermining growth and making debt reduction even more difficult .
providing further fiscal stimulus to boost economic growth would carry its own risks , owing to the debt ceiling and another , more ominous factor : america is already overly indebted , and there are signs that major holders of us government securities are finally tired of being repaid in depreciated currency .
most importantly , china ’ s call for the introduction of a new reserve currency stems from its frustration with the failure of major governments – whether in the us or europe – to govern their economic affairs with realism and good sense .
china recognizes that america is in great difficulty ( indeed , it recognizes this more clearly than the us itself ) , and that , given the poisonous political atmosphere prevailing in washington , there will be no easy return to good government , economic stability , and strong growth .
america ’ s leadership in world affairs began to weaken with the unilateralism of bush , and today ’ s economic problems are reinforcing this tendency .
to reverse america ’ s decline , obama needs bipartisan support for his ( quite mainstream ) policies , but so far the us congress has shown no stomach for a principled approach to its legislative duties .
if germany ’ s half- hear ted efforts to stabilize europe somehow turn out to be successful , america ’ s position will be further eroded , and central banks around the world will begin to regard the euro once again as a reliable alternative to the dollar as a reserve currency .
these realities represent a power shift of a kind that we have not experienced in our life times .
china ’ s economic power over the us is now substantial , and will limit not only america ’ s influence in the financial markets , but also its capacity to use military power .
if this forces america back towards what the inter national- relations scholar joseph ny e calls “ soft power and multilateral diplomacy , ” it may well be a good thing .
but such approaches are anathema to the us republican party , and to its tea party faction in particular , and they might un nerve the many asians who are nervous at china ’ s growing military might .
the counter- argument – that any sel l- off or failure by china to continue to buy us government securities would hurt china as much as america – is not valid .
as each year passes , china ’ s markets expand worldwide , and its domestic market comes to represent a greater percentage of its own gdp .
as a result , china will not need a strong dollar in the long term .
americans need to get their economic house in order before china loses its incentive to support the dollar .
on several occasions in the post-wwii period , the us has learned with great pain that there are limits to the effective use of military power .
american objectives could not be achieved in vietnam .
the outcome in iraq will not be determined until the last american troops have been withdrawn .
in afghanistan , where withdrawal dates have already been set , it is difficult to believe that a cohesive unified state can be established .
as the efficacy of military power is reduced , so the importance of economic power grows .
recognition of these central realities – and bi parti san ship in addressing them – is critical for america ’ s future , and that of the west .
america ’ s socialism for the rich
with all the talk of “ green shoots ” of economic recovery , america ’ s banks are pushing back on efforts to regulate them .
while politicians talk about their commitment to regulatory reform to prevent a recurrence of the crisis , this is one area where the devil really is in the details – and the banks will muster what muscle they have left to ensure that they have ample room to continue as they have in the past .
the old system worked well for the bankers ( if not for their shareholders ) , so why should they embrace change ?
indeed , the efforts to rescue them devoted so little thought to the kind of post-crisis financial system we want that we will end up with a banking system that is less competitive , with the large banks that were too big too fail even larger .
it has long been recognized that those america ’ s banks that are too big to fail are also too big to be managed .
that is one reason that the performance of several of them has been so dismal .
because government provides deposit insurance , it plays a large role in restructuring ( unlike other sectors ) . normally , when a bank fails , the government engineers a financial restructuring ; if it has to put in money , it , of course , gains a stake in the future .
officials know that if they wait too long , zombie or near zombie banks – with little or no net worth , but treated as if they were viable institutions – are likely to “ gamble on resurrec tion . ”
if they take big bets and win , they walk away with the proceeds ; if they fail , the government pic ks up the t ab .
this is not just theory ; it is a lesson we learned , at great expense , during the savings & loan crisis of the 1980 ’ s .
when the at m machine says , “ insufficient funds , ” the government doesn ’ t want this to mean that the bank , rather than your account , is out of money , so it interven es before the ti ll is empty .
in a financial restructuring , shareholders typically get wiped out , and bondholders become the new shareholders .
sometimes , the government must provide additional funds ; sometimes it looks for a new investor to take over the failed bank .
the obama administration has , however , introduced a new concept : too big to be financially restructured .
markets would panic . so , not only can ’ t we touch the bondholders , we can ’ t even touch the shareholders – even if most of the shares ’ existing value merely reflects a bet on a government bailout .
i think this judgment is wrong .
i think the obama administration has succumbed to political pressure and sca re- mongering by the big banks .
as a result , the administration has confused bailing out the bankers and their shareholders with bailing out the banks .
restructuring gives banks a chance for a new start : new potential investors ( whether in equity or debt instruments ) will have more confidence , other banks will be more willing to lend to them , and they will be more willing to lend to others .
the bondholders will gain from an orderly restructuring , and if the value of the assets is truly greater than the market ( and outside analysts ) believe , they will eventually reap the gains .
but what is clear is that the obama strategy ’ s current and future costs are very high – and so far , it has not achieved its limited objective of re starting lending .
the taxpayer has had to pon y up billions , and has provided billions more in guarantees – bills that are likely to come due in the future .
re writing the rules of the market economy – in a way that has benefited those that have caused so much pain to the entire global economy – is worse than financially costly .
most americans view it as grossly unjust , especially after they saw the banks divert the billions intended to enable them to revive lending to payments of out sized bonuses and dividends .
tear ing up the social contract is something that should not be done lightly .
but this new form of er sat z capitalism , in which losses are soci alized and profits privatized , is doomed to failure .
incentives are distorted .
there is no market discipline .
the too-big-to- be - restructured banks know that they can gamble with impunity – and , with the federal reserve making funds available at near-zero interest rates , there are ample funds to do so .
some have called this new economic regime “ socialism with american characteristics . ”
but socialism is concerned about ordinary individuals .
by contrast , the united states has provided little help for the millions of americans who are losing their homes .
workers who lose their jobs receive only 39 weeks of limited unemployment benefits , and are then left on their own .
and , when they lose their jobs , most lose their health insurance , too .
america has expanded its corporate safety net in unprecedented ways , from commercial banks to investment banks , then to insurance , and now to automobiles , with no end in sight .
in truth , this is not socialism , but an extension of long standing corporate wel far ism .
the rich and powerful turn to the government to help them whenever they can , while ne edy individuals get little social protection .
we need to break up the too-big-to-fail banks ; there is no evidence that these beh emo ths deliver societal benefits that are commensurate with the costs they have imposed on others .
and , if we don ’ t break them up , then we have to severely limit what they do .
they can ’ t be allowed to do what they did in the past – gamble at others ’ expenses .
this raises another problem with america ’ s too-big-to-fail , too-big-to- be - restructured banks : they are too politically powerful .
their lobbying efforts worked well , first to dereg ulate , and then to have taxpayers pay for the clean up .
their hope is that it will work once again to keep them free to do as they please , regardless of the risks for taxpayers and the economy .
america ’ s sputnik moment in beijing
new york – august 8 , 2008 , may someday be remembered as the first day of the post- american era .
or it could be remembered as another “ sputnik moment , ” when , as with the soviet for ay into outer space in 1957 , the american people realized that the country had lost its footing and decided it was time for the united states to get its act together .
there was no mist aking the power and symbolism of the opening ceremon ies for the beijing olympic games on august 8 .
that multi media spectacular did far more than trace china ’ s 5 ,000- year history ; it was a statement that china is a major civilization that demands and deserves its righ tful place in the global hierarchy .
there was also no mist aking the symbolism of seeing president bush , w aving cheer fully from his spot in the ble ach ers while chinese president hu jintao sat behind what looked more like a throne .
it is hard to imagine that china ’ s government , which obs esses over every minute issue of diplomatic protocol , had not orchestrated this stark image of america ’ s decline relative to the country to which it owes $ 1.4 trillion .
it would be hard to imagine franklin roosevelt or ronald reagan accepting a similar relative position .
at the very same time that bush was w aving from the stands , russia was invading georgia , america ’ s closest partner in the caucasus .
russia ’ s message to other west - leaning countries in the former soviet world was clear : america can not protect you .
frigh ten ingly , the russians were likely correct .
while the iraq quagmire has made it difficult for america to project force around the world , america ’ s growing debt , conflicts with friends and enemies alike , absence of any perce iv able strategy for changing times , and its political system ’ s seeming inability to take action to address these challenges have combined to turn america into a struggling giant .
today , from iran to darfur to zimbabwe to georgia , the world is witnessing the effects of a bud ding post- american world , and the picture does not look pretty .
as much as we all value the rise of new powers like china and india , it remains to be seen whether these countries will become as benevolent a power as america , however flawed , has been over the past half-century .
neo- colonialism is returning to africa , the global project of human rights is in retreat , and the world trade system is becoming far less open .
brutal dictators go un punished because their interests are protected by large powers with stakes in their natural resources .
reversing this trend is not only in america ’ s interest , but also in the world ’ s interest .
to do so , americans must identify and address the great challenges the united states faces , starting from the ground up .
fixing america ’ s campaign finance structure , which leads to massive mis allocations of government funds , re susc itating america ’ s wildly uneven and often moribund education system , building an immigration system that actively recruits the most talented people from around the world via a fast track to us citizenship , and developing a national energy policy that moves the us far more quickly toward energy independence would all be important steps in this direction .
working to rebuild the traditional bipartisan foreign-policy consensus would also make the us a far more predictable partner to friends and allies around the world .
and america must be a respectful partner in order to encourage rising powers like india and china to play more constructive roles in international affairs .
the world is not ready for the post- american era , and countries like china and india must play a far greater role in strengthening the existing institutions of world peace and , where appropriate , building new ones that can promote a positive agenda of security , dignity , rights , and prosperity across the globe .
the world community is not there yet , and until it is , the world needs a new kind of american leader – a leader able to inspire americans to fix their problems at home and work with partners across the globe in promoting a common agenda as bold and progressive as the order built from the ashes of world war ii 60 years ago .
the beijing olympics could be remembered as a new “ sputnik moment ” for the us , inspiring the country to meaning fully face the music of a changing world .
but america can make it so only by recognizing the great challenges it faces and taking bold steps towards addressing them , at home and with allies abroad .
america ’ s perilous pivot
madrid – the pacific or the middle east ?
for the united states , that is now the primary strategic question .
the violence in gaza , coming as president barack obama was meeting asia ’ s leaders in ph n om pen h , perfectly enc ap sul ates america ’ s dilemma .
of the two geopolitical fo cal points demanding america ’ s attention , one represents the future and the other the past .
whereas asia played an important role in a us presidential election campaign that was marked by often- heated references to china ’ s rise , the middle east has kept the us bo gged down for decades .
in addition to the eternal israel-palestine conflict , iraq ’ s instability , the arab spring , syria ’ s civil war , and the ongoing nuclear standoff with iran all demand america ’ s attention .
if the iran crisis were to boil over , the pivot to asia would no longer be america ’ s main foreign-policy priority .
but if the dispute with iran is resolved diplom atically , the middle east might , perhaps , be relegated to a position of lesser importance , as obama clearly desires .
the question , therefore , is whether the us will find itself drawn into another war in a region on which it depends less and less for energy .
indeed , the revolution in non- conventional hydrocarbons , particularly shale gas and oil , which the international energy agency recently predicted would make the us the world ’ s largest oil producer by 2020 , and the top energy producer overall by 2030 , will have enormous global repercussions .
for the us , energy self- sufficiency is the perfect excuse for a phased withdrawal from the middle east ; freed from energy dependency , america should be able to concentrate on the pacific .
although maintaining stable global energy prices and its alliance with israel means that the us can not cut itself off completely from the middle east ’ s troubles , the shift in focus to asia began early in obama ’ s first administration , with clinton announcing america ’ s strategic re orientation even before us troops began withdrawing from iraq .
following his re-election , obama ’ s first foreign visit was to myanmar , thailand , and cambodia – a choice that can not have pleased china , as all three are asean members , while myanmar was , until it began its democratic transition , a close chinese ally .
asia is , of course , experiencing rapid economic growth , but managing the region ’ s strong nationalist tensions calls for the creation of regional security structures , together with closer economic integration .
complicating matters even more is what us scholar kenneth li e ber th al and wang j isi , the dean of international studies at pe king university , called in a recent paper for the brookings institution “ strategic distrust . ”
cultivating strategic trust between the twenty-first century ’ s leading powers will be fundamental to the international system ’ s harmonious functioning .
but how can this be achieved ?
as china will be importing three-quarters of its oil from the middle east by 2020 , one step forward would be china ’ s cooperation in finding solutions to the region ’ s problems .
after the january 2013 israeli elections , iran will again move to the top of obama ’ s foreign-policy agenda .
military intervention in iran – which itself will be holding a presidential election in june – would incite not only regional , but global , instability .
the arab world , russia , and china would be forced to take sides , str aining global relations between the different poles of power and raising tensions in the pacific .
so china has a large strategic interest in working with the us to avoid a showdown .
beyond iran , the volatile situation throughout the middle east urgently demands solutions .
the latest eruption of violent conflict between hamas and israel underscores the importance of reviving the peace process .
syria ’ s civil war , in which a growing number of regional players have become involved , is beginning to look increasingly like a trial run for all-out war between sunni muslims ( saudi arabia and the other gulf states , turkey , and egypt ) and shia muslims ( iran and hezbollah ) for regional dominance .
iran ’ s leaders appear to believe that the us , having incurred extremely high economic and human costs from more than a decade of war , would rather avoid another military intervention .
us public opinion seems to confirm this .
a recent survey by the chicago council on global affairs indicated that 67 % of americans believe that the iraq war was not worthwhile .
moreover , 69 % do not believe that the us is safer from terrorism since the war in afghanistan , and 71 % say that the experience in iraq shows that the us should take greater care in how it uses force .
but , if americans seem unlikely to be willing to invest billions of dollars in another dead - end foreign adventure , iran ’ s leaders , for their part , are increasingly h em med in by international sanctions , which are beginning to wreak havoc on the country ’ s economy .
both sides may believe that their best option – at least for now – is to negotiate .
peaceful resolution of the iranian question would help the us to complete its shift toward asia .
after all , another middle east conflict would poison and distort relations in the region for decades , which would be the worst of all possible consequences – for the us and china alike .
america ’ s suicidal statecraft
since its victory in the cold war , america ’ s global hegemony has rested on three pillars : economic power , military might , and a vast capacity to export its popular culture .
the recent emergence of additional powers – the european union , china , india , and a russia driven to recover its lost status – has eroded america ’ s capacity to shape events unilaterally .
even so , america remains by far the world ’ s most powerful country ; its decline has more to do with its incompetent use of power than with the emergence of competitors .
it is american leaders ’ “ suicidal statecraft , ” to use ar n old to yn be e ’ s pi thy phrase for what he considered the ultimate cause of imperial collapse , that is to blame for america ’ s plight .
consider the middle east .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region better than the contrast between america ’ s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and the hubris and dece it of today ’ s iraq war .
in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , and led it in a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after saddam hussein ’ s invasion of kuwait .
in 2003 , america went to war without its trans- atlantic allies after manipulating false assertions .
in doing so , the us embarked on a pre po ster ous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’ s tyrann ical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy to take root throughout the arab world .
the result has been utter failure : military defeat and a severe degradation of america ’ s moral standing .
rather than undermining radical islam , the us has legitimized it , in iraq and beyond .
indeed , what will now shape the future of the region is not democracy , but the violent divide between shi ites and sunnis that the iraq war precip itated .
it is this muslim civil war that is allowing al-qaeda to gain a larger pool of recruits .
with iraq probably becoming the first arab country to be ruled by shi ites , and hence integrated into an expanding shiite iranian empire , america ’ s sunni allies in the region now view the us as unreliable .
indeed , the us is seen as practically complicit in inciting a monumental reversal of islam ’ s fortunes , the shia revival .
nor is the gos pel of democracy especially dear to america ’ s arab allies , for the call to democrati ze has only emboldened the islamists to challenge the incumbent elites for power .
admittedly , violent islamic fundamentalism has deeper roots in the fading promise of arab nationalism .
but america ’ s mis be gotten democratic message has ended up alien ating both its conservative regional allies , as it gave a new lease on life to political islam , which can use the ballot box as a route to power , and the islamists , whose electoral gains are then rejected by the us .
america ’ s biggest strategic blunder in the middle east arguably concerns the emergence of iranian power .
by destroying iraq as a counter balancing regional force , the us dealt a major blow to its traditional gulf allies , for whom iraq served as a barrier against iran ’ s ambitions .
america offered iran on a silver plat ter strategic assets that khomeini ’ s revolution failed to acquire either in eight years of war against saddam or in its abor tive attempts to export the islamic revolution throughout the region .
likewise , iran ’ s nuclear program gained momentum thanks to its sense of impunity following the colossal failure in iraq of america ’ s concept of “ preventive war . ”
the calam itous us military experience in iraq has left it strategically diminished .
iraq has now become god ’ s play ground , and america can hope to achieve a modicum of stability there only with the help of other regional powers .
nevertheless , the us will remain the most influential external actor in the middle east , for its failure is one of leadership , not of actual power .
hum bled by military defeat , america can recover its regional relevance only by avoiding the sin of hubris , and learning to lead without attempting to dominate .
this requires engaging revolutionary forces like iran and syria ; respecting , rather than ostr ac izing , those islamist movements that have opted out from jihadism in favor of political participation ; and leading an international alliance for an arab-israeli peace based on the arab league initiative .
the palestinian issue is not the source of all the middle east ’ s ills , but its resolution would dramatically improve america ’ s standing among arabs .
more importantly , it would deny iran the ability to link popular islamic and arab causes with its own hegemonic ambitions .
america ’ s threat to trans-pacific trade
mumbai – as if undermining the world trade organization ’ s doha round of global free-trade talks was not bad enough ( the last ministerial meeting in geneva produced barely a sque ak ) , the united states has compounded its folly by actively promoting the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) .
president barack obama announced this with nine asian countries during his recent trip to the region .
the tpp is being sold in the us to a compliant media and un suspec ting public as evidence of american leadership on trade .
but the opposite is true , and it is important that those who care about the global trading system know what is happening .
one hopes that this knowledge will trigger what i call the “ drac ula effect ” : expose that which would prefer to remain hidden to sunlight and it will sh ri vel up and die .
the tpp is a testament to the ability of us industrial lobbies , congress , and presidents to ob fus c ate public policy .
it is widely understood today that free-trade agreements ( ft as ) , whether bilateral or plur il ateral ( among more than two countries but fewer than all ) are built on discrimination .
that is why economists typically call them prefer enti al- trade agreements ( pt as ) .
and that is why the us government ’ s public-relations machine calls what is in fact a discriminatory plur il ateral fta , a “ partnership ” invoking a false a ura of cooperation and cosmopolit anism .
countries are , in principle , free to join the tpp .
japan and canada have said they plan to do so .
but a closer look reveals that china is not a part of this agenda .
the tpp is also a political response to china 's new aggres siveness , built therefore in a spirit of confrontation and containment , not of cooperation .
the us has been establishing a tem plate for its pt as that includes several items unrelated to trade . so it is no surprise that the tpp tem plate includes numerous agendas unrelated to trade , such as labor standards and restraints on the use of capital-account controls , many of which preclude china ’ s accession .
from the outset , the tpp ’ s supposed openness has been wholly misleading .
towards this end , the tpp was negotiated with the weaker countries like vietnam , singapore , and new zealand , which were easily bam boo z led into accepting such conditions .
only then were bigger countries like japan offered membership on a “ take it or leave it ” basis .
the pr machine then went into over drive by calling the inclusion of these extr an eous conditions as making the tpp a “ high-quality ” trade agreement for the twenty-first century , when in fact it was a ri p- off by several domestic lobbies .
american regi onalism closer to home shows the us now trying to promote the free trade agreement of the americas ( f ta a ) .
but its preferred tem plate was to expand the north america free trade agreement ( canada , mexico , and the us ) to the an dean countries and include huge doses of non- trade- related issues , which they sw allowed .
this was not acceptable to brazil , the leading force behind the f ta a , which focuses exclusively on trade issues .
brazil ’ s former president luiz lula inácio da silva , one of the world ’ s great trade- union leaders , rejected the inclusion of labor standards in trade treaties and institutions .
the result of us efforts in south america , therefore , has been to frag ment the region into two blocs , and the same is likely to happen in asia .
ever since the us realized that it had chosen the wrong region to be regional with , it has been trying to win a seat at the asian table .
the us finally got it with the tpp , simply because china had become aggressive in asserting its territorial claims in the south china sea , the south china sea , and vis-à-vis india and japan .
many asian countries joined the tpp to “ keep the us in the region ” in the face of chinese heavy- han de dness .
america ’ s design for asian trade is inspired by the goal of containing china , and the tpp tem plate effectively excludes it , owing to the non- trade- related conditions imposed by us lobbies .
the only way that a chinese merger with the tpp could gain credibility would be to make all non- trade- related provisions op tional .
of course , the us lobbies would have none of it .
america ’ s three deficits
berkeley – this year began with a series of reports providing tant alizing evidence that economic recovery in the united states is strengthening .
the pace of job creation has increased , indicators for manufacturing and services have improved , and consumption spending has been stronger than anticipated .
but it is too early to celebrate .
output growth in the us remains anemic , and the economy continues to face three significant deficits : a jobs deficit , an investment deficit , and a long-run fiscal deficit , none of which is likely to be addressed in an election year .
although output is now higher than it was in the fourth quarter of 2007 , it remains far below what could be produced if labor and capacity were fully utili zed .
that gap – between actual and potential output – is estimated at more than 7 % of gdp ( more than $ 1 trillion ) .
the output gap reflects a deficit of more than 12 million jobs – the number of jobs needed to return to the economy ’ s peak 2007 employment level and absorb the 12 5,000 people who enter the labor force each month .
even if the economy grows at 2.5 % in 2012 , as most forecasts anticipate , the jobs deficit will remain – and will not be closed until 20 24 .
america ’ s jobs deficit is primarily the result of inadequate aggregate demand .
consumption , which accounts for about 70 % of total spending , is constrained by high unemployment , weak wage gains , and a steep decline in home values and consumer wealth .
the uptick in consumption in the last months of 2011 was financed by a decline in the household saving rate and a large increase in consumer credit .
neither of these trends is healthy or sustainable .
with an unemployment rate of 8.5 % , a labor-force participation rate of only 64 % , and stagnant real wages , labor income has fallen to an historic low of 44 % of national income .
and labor income is the most important component of household earnings , the major driver of consumption spending .
even before the great recession , american workers and households were in trouble .
the rate of job growth between 2000 and 2007 slowed to only half its level in the three preceding decades .
productivity growth was strong , but far outpaced wage growth , and workers ’ real hourly compensation declined , on average , even for those with a university education .
indeed , the 200 2- 2007 period was the only recovery on record during which the median family ’ s real income declined .
moreover , job opportunities continued to polar ize , with employment growing in high- wage professional , technical , and managerial occupations , as well as in low-wage food- service , person al- care , and protec tive- service occupations .
by contrast , employment in middle- skill , white- collar , and blue-collar occupations fell , particularly in manufacturing .
hard- pressed american households slashed their savings rates , borrowed against their home equity , and increased their debt to maintain consumption , contributing to the housing and credit bubbles that burst in 2008 , requiring painful deleveraging ever since .
three forces have driven the us labor market ’ s adverse structural changes :
· sk ill- biased technological change , which has automated routine work while boosting demand for highly educated workers with at least a college degree .
· global competition and the integration of labor markets through trade and outsourcing , which have eliminated jobs and depressed wages .
· america ’ s declining competitiveness as an attractive place to locate production and employment .
but us policy choices are responsible for the erosion of america ’ s competitiveness .
in particular , the us is under investing in three major areas that help countries to create and retain high- wage jobs : skills and training , infrastructure , and research and development .
spending in these areas accounts for less than 10 % of us government spending , and this share has been declining over time .
the federal government can currently borrow at record-low interest rates , and there are many projects in education , infrastructure , and research that would earn a higher return , create jobs now , and bolster us competitiveness in attracting high- wage jobs .
president barack obama has offered numerous proposals to invest in the foundations of national competitiveness , but congressional republicans have re buff ed them , claiming that the us faces an impending fiscal crisis .
in fact , the federal deficit as a share of gdp will shrink significantly over the next several years , even without further deficit- reduction measures , before rising to unsustainable levels by 2030 .
the us does indeed face a long-run fiscal deficit , largely the result of rising health-care costs and an aging population .
but the current fiscal deficit mainly reflects weak tax revenues , owing to slow growth and high unemployment , and temporary stimulus measures that are fading away at a time when aggregate demand remains weak and additional fiscal stimulus is warranted .
at the very least , to keep the economy on course for 2.5 % growth this year , the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits proposed by obama should be extended through the end of the year .
these measures would provide insurance to the fragile recovery and add nothing to the long-run fiscal gap .
so , how should the us economy ’ s jobs deficit , investment deficit , and long-run fiscal deficit be addressed ?
policymakers should pair fiscal measures to ameliorate the jobs and investment deficits now with a multi-year plan to reduce the long-run fiscal deficit gradually .
this long-run plan should increase spending on education , infrastructure , and research , while curbing future growth in health-care spending through the cost- containment mechanisms contained in obama ’ s health- reform legislation .
approv ing a long-run deficit- reduction plan now but def err ing its starting date until the economy is near full employment would prevent premature fiscal contraction from tipping the economy back into recession .
indeed , enactment of such a package could bolster output and employment growth by easing investor concerns about future deficits and strengthening consumer and business confidence .
painful choices about how to close the long-run fiscal gap should be decided now and implemented promptly once the economy has recovered .
but , for the next few years , the priorities of fiscal policy should be jobs , investment , and growth .
america ’ s un govern able budget
new york – the heart of any government is found in its budget .
politicians can make endless promises , but if the budget doesn ’ t add up , politics is little more than mere words .
the united states is now caught in such a bind .
in his recent state of the union address , president barack obama painted a convincing picture of modern , twenty-first-century government .
his republican party opponents complained that obama ’ s proposals would bust the budget .
but the truth is that both parties are hiding from the reality : without more taxes , a modern , competitive us economy is not possible .
obama rightly emphasized that competitiveness in the world today depends on an educated workforce and modern infrastructure .
that is true for any country , but it is especially relevant for rich countries .
the us and europe are in direct competition with brazil , china , india , and other emerging economies , where wage levels are sometimes one-quarter those in high-income countries ( if not even lower ) .
america and europe will keep their high living standards only by basing their competitiveness on advanced skills , cutting-edge technologies , and modern infrastructure .
that is why obama called for an increase in us public investment in three areas : education , science and technology , and infrastructure ( including broadband internet , fast rail , and clean energy ) .
obama emphasized these themes for good reason .
unemployment in the us now stands at nearly 10 % of the labor force , in part because more new jobs are being created in the emerging economies , and many of the jobs now being created in the us pay less than in the past , owing to greater global competition .
unless the us steps up its investment in education , science , technology , and infrastructure , these adverse trends will continue .
but obama ’ s message lost touch with reality when he turned his attention to the budget deficit .
acknowledging that recent fiscal policies had put the us on an unsustainable trajectory of rising public debt , obama said that moving towards budget balance was now essential for fiscal stability .
so he called for a five-year freeze on what the us government calls “ discretionary ” civilian spending .
the problem is that more than half of such spending is on education , science and technology , and infrastructure – the areas that obama had just argued should be strengthened .
after telling americans how important government investment is for modern growth , he promised to freeze that spending for the next five years !
politicians often change their message from one speech to the next , but rarely contradict it so glar ingly in the same speech .
that contradiction highlights the sad and self-defeating nature of us budget policies over the past 25 years , and most likely in the years to come .
on the one hand , the us government must invest more to promote economic competitiveness .
on the other hand , us taxes are chronically too low to support the level of government investment that is needed .
america ’ s fiscal reality was made painfully clear two days after obama ’ s speech , in a new study from the congressional budget office , which revealed that the budget deficit this year will reach nearly $ 1.5 trillion – a sum almost unimaginable even for an economy the size of the us .
at nearly 10 % of gdp , the deficit is resulting in a mountain of debt that threatens america ’ s future .
the cbo study also made clear that december ’ s tax- cut agreement between obama and the republican opposition will fully and deliberately increased the budget deficit sharply .
various tax cuts initiated by george w. bush were set to expire at the end of 2010 .
obama and the republicans agreed to continue those tax cuts for at least two years ( they will now probably continue beyond that ) , thereby lowering tax revenue by $ 350 billion this year and again in 2012 .
tax cuts for the richest americans were part of the package .
the truth of us politics today is simple .
the key policy for the leaders of both political parties is tax cuts , especially for the rich .
both political parties , and the white house , would rather cut taxes than spend more on education , science and technology , and infrastructure .
and the explanation is straightforward : the richest households fund political campaigns .
both parties therefore c ater to their wishes .
as a result , america ’ s total tax revenues as a share of national income are among the lowest of all high-income countries , roughly 30 % , compared to around 40 % in europe . but 30 % of gdp is not enough to cover the needs of health , education , science and technology , social security , infrastructure , and other vital government responsibilities .
one budget area can and should be cut : military spending .
but even if america ’ s wildly excessive military budget is cut sharply ( and politicians in both parties are resisting that ) , there will still be a need for new taxes .
the economic and social consequences of a generation of tax cutting are clear .
america is losing its international competitiveness , neglecting its poor – one in five american children is trapped in poverty – and leaving a mountain of debt to its young .
for all of the obama administration ’ s lofty rhetoric , his fiscal-policy proposals make no serious attempt to address these problems .
america ’ s un hing ed “ pivot ”
new delhi – president barack obama ’ s first foreign trip since winning a second term highlights asia ’ s new centrality to america ’ s economy and security .
but obama ’ s asian tour also underscores the main question about american policy in the region : will the united states ’ “ pivot ” to asia acquire concrete strategic content , or will it remain largely a rhetorical re packaging of old policies ?
the united states , quick to capitalize on regional concerns triggered by china ’ s increasingly muscular self- assertion , has strengthened its military ties with its existing asian allies and forged security relationships with new friends .
but the heady g low of america ’ s return to center stage in asia has obs cured key challenges in remaining the region ’ s principal security anchor in the face of china ’ s strategic ambitions .
one challenge is the need to arrest the erosion of america ’ s relative power , which in turn requires comprehensive domestic renewal , including fiscal consolidation .
but the need for spending cuts also raises the prospect that the us might be unable to finance a military shift toward the asia-pacific region – or , worse , that it will be forced to retren ch there .
the us under obama has increasingly c eded ground to china , a trend that admittedly began when the bush administration became preoccupied with the wars in afghanistan and iraq .
this has spurred doubts about america ’ s ability to provide strategic he ft to its “ pivot ” by sustaining a higher level of commitment in the asia-pacific region , where it already maintains 3 20,000 troops .
the proposed deployment of an additional 2,500 marines in australia is largely symbolic .
in fact , after raising asians ’ expectations of a more robust us response to china ’ s growing assertiveness , the obama administration has started to t amp down the military aspects of its “ pivot , ” emphasizing instead greater us economic engagement .
that change has come as a relief to those in the region who fear being forced to choose between the us and china .
but , for the countries bearing the brunt of china ’ s recalcitrant approach to territorial and maritime disputes , this emphasis raises new doubts about america ’ s commitment .
in fact , the economic re orientation of the us “ pivot ” correc ts a policy that had over emphasized the military component and put the us on a path toward conflict with china .
it was secretary of state hillary clinton who signaled a more hawk ish us stance on china with her tough talk at the 2010 association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) regional forum in han o i ; now she is moder ating that position by promoting trade and investment during her visits to asian countries .
obama , too , is highlighting the economic aspects of the us “ pivot , ” portr aying his asia tour as an effort to generate more domestic manufacturing jobs through higher exports to “ the most rapidly growing and dynamic region in the world . ”
even his historic visit to myanmar – the first ever by a us president – is as much about trade as it is about we an ing a strategically located , resource-rich country from chinese influence .
the re focus on trade and economic issues has also prompted washington to promote the trans-pacific partnership , which aims to create a new asia-pacific free-trade group that excludes china .
moreover , the us is emphasizing the importance of the east asia summit and asean , whose summit overl aps with the eas meeting in ph n om pen h that obama will be attending .
the us course correction is being dictated by another consideration as well : america has nothing to gain from taking sides in china ’ s disputes with its neighbors – unless , of course , us interests are directly at stake , as in the south china sea , where chinese maritime claims threaten freedom of navigation in some of the world ’ s most heavily traffic ked shipping lanes .
concern for its own national interest explains why america has charted a course of tacit neutrality regarding the revival of sino- indian territorial disputes , including china ’ s sudden resurrec tion of a claim to the large himalayan indian state of ar un achal pradesh .
similarly , the us has urged both china and japan to resolve peacefully their dispute over the japanese- controlled senkaku islands .
america ’ s main goal is to prevent the standoff from escalating to the point that it would be forced – against its own interests – to take japan ’ s side .
when us defense secretary le on pan ett a met chinese leader xi jinping in china in september , he got “ an ear ful ” that the us should stay out of the sino- japanese dispute . indeed , amid the orchestrated anti-japanese protests in china in september , pan ett a – instead of advising china to rein in the often- violent demonstrations – publicly reiterated america ’ s neutrality in the struggle over control of the islands .
the correction in us policy actually extends even to termin ology .
american diplomats have now abandoned the term “ pivot ” altogether , owing to its military con no tation , in favor of “ rebalancing . ”
whatever one calls it , the new policy approach is all about china , with america bolstering alliances and friend ships with countries around china ’ s periphery , including india , japan , the philippines , vietnam , indonesia , and south korea .
yet the obama administration continues to deny that china is at the center of its strategy . in fact , it is reluctant to say or do anything publicly that might raise china ’ s h ack les .
the asia-pacific region will loom larger in obama ’ s second- term agenda , especially as the ongoing us troop withdrawal ends the afghanistan war by 2014 .
the us and the rest of asia must not merely adjust to china ; they must seek to shape a china that plays by the rules .
america ’ s war- torn economy
new york – some say there are two issues in the coming american elections : the iraq war and the economy .
on days when the war seems to be going better than expected , and the economy worse , the economy ecli p ses the war ; but neither is f aring well .
in some sense , there is only one issue , and that is the war , which has exacerbated america ’ s economic problems .
and when the world ’ s largest economy is sick – and it is now very sick – the entire world suffers .
it used to be thought that wars were good for the economy .
after all , world war ii is widely thought to have helped lift the global economy out of the great depression .
but , at least since keynes , we know how to stimulate the economy more effectively , and in ways that increase long-term productivity and enhance living standards .
this war , in particular , has not been good for the economy , for three reasons .
first , it has contributed to rising oil prices .
when the united states went to war , oil cost less than $ 25 a barrel , and futures markets expected it to remain there for a decade .
futures traders knew about the growth of china and other emerging markets ; but they expected supply – mainly from low-cost middle east providers – to increase in tandem with demand .
the war changed that equation .
higher oil prices mean that americans ( and europeans and japanese ) are paying hundreds of millions of dollars to middle east oil dictators and oil exporters elsewhere in the world rather than spending it at home .
moreover , money spent on the iraq war does not stimulate the economy today as much as money spent at home on roads , hospitals , or schools , and it doesn ’ t contribute as much to long-term growth .
economists talk about “ bang for the buck ” – how much economic stimulus is provided by each dollar of spending .
it ’ s hard to imagine less bang than from buc ks spent on a ne pal ese contractor working in iraq .
with so many dollars going abroad , the american economy should have been in a much weaker shape than it appeared .
but , much as the bush administration tried to hide the true costs of the war by incomplete and misleading accounting , the economy ’ s flaws were covered up by a flood of liquidity from the federal reserve and by lax financial regulation .
so much money was pumped into the economy and so lax were regulators that one leading american bank adverti sed its loans with the slogan “ qualified at birth ” – a clear indication that there were , in effect , no credit standards .
in a sense , the strategy worked : a housing bubble fed a consumption boom , as savings rates plummeted to zero . the economic weaknesses were simply being postponed to some future date ; the bush administration hoped that the day of reckoning would come after november 2008 . instead , things began to unravel in august 2007 .
now it has responded , with a stimulus package that is too little , too late , and badly designed .
to see the in adequacy of that package , compare it with the more than $ 1.5 trillion that was borrowed in home equity loans in recent years , most of it spent on consumption .
that game – based on a belief in ever- spir aling home prices – is over .
with home prices falling ( and set to continue to fall ) , and with banks uncertain of their financial position , lenders will not lend and households will not borrow .
so , while the additional liquidity injected into the financial system by the fed may have prevented a meltdown , it won ’ t stimulate much consumption or investment .
instead , much of it will find its way abroad .
china , for example , is worried that the fed ’ s stimulus will increase its domestic inflation .
not only has america already spent a great deal on this war – $ 12 billion a month , and counting – but much of the bill remains to be paid , such as compensation and health care for the 40 % of veterans who are returning with disabilities , many of which are very serious .
moreover , this war has been funded differently from any other war in america ’ s history – perhaps in any country ’ s recent history .
normally , countries ask for shared sacrifice , as they ask their young men and women to risk their lives .
taxes are raised .
there is a discussion of how much of the burden to pass on to future generations . in this war , there was no such discussion .
when america went to war , there was a deficit .
yet remarkably , bush asked for , and got , a reckless tax cut for the rich .
that means that every dollar of war spending has in effect been borrowed .
for the first time since the revolutionary war , two centuries ago , america has had to turn to foreigners for financing , because us households have been saving nothing .
the numbers are hard to believe .
the national debt has increased by 50 % in eight years , with almost $ 1 trillion of this increase due to the war – an amount likely to more than double within ten years .
who would have believed that one administration could do so much damage so quickly ?
america , and the world , will be paying to repair it for decades to come .
obama ’ s year of iran
princeton – as us president barack obama begins his second term , he will have to devote much of his attention to fig uring out how to get america ’ s domestic finances in order .
but foreign-policy issues loom large as well , and , notwithstanding the ongoing conflict in syria and the possible spread of war across africa ’ s sahel region , the consensus in washington is that 2013 will be the “ year of decision ” on iran .
obama began his first administration with an offer to engage with the islamic republic ; as he memor ably put it in his first inaugural address in 2009 , “ we will extend a hand if you are willing to un cl en ch your f ist . ”
he repeated that commitment , although much more ob liqu ely , in his second inaugural address : “ we will show the courage to try and resolve our differences with other nations peacefully – not because we are naive about the dangers we face , but because engagement can more dur ably lift suspicion and fear . ”
as the american scholar and activist hussein ib ish recently argued , obama has appointed a cabinet designed to give him maximum room to negotiate a deal with iran .
in particular , naming military veterans as secretary of state and secretary of defense will provide him with valuable domestic political cover for an agreement that would inevitably require lifting sanctions on iran and almost certainly recognizing its right to enrich uranium at a low level of concentration .
that should signal to iran ’ s rulers not only that the us is serious about a deal , but also that whatever the us offers is likely to be the best deal that they can get .
the obama administration has assembled an extraordinary coalition of countries to impose economic sanctions that are having a demonstr able effect on the price and availability of goods in iran and on the ability of even powerful institutions , such as the revolutionary guard , to do business .
but coalitions do not hold together forever , and the pain of sanctions often cuts both ways , affecting buyers as well as sellers .
countries like south korea and japan , for example , have curtailed their imports of iranian oil only reluct antly ; countries like china and russia rarely play straight on sanctions in the first place .
moreover , obama can threaten that “ all options are on the table ” only so many times without losing credibility with the iranians and other countries in the middle east .
as brookings institution foreign-policy expert su z anne mal on ey points out , countries in the region and beyond are already dis ma yed at the lack of us leadership concerning syria .
if the us gives negotiations one more serious try ( a credible offer and a genuine willingness to engage ) , gets re buff ed , and then does nothing , it will effectively declare itself a paper tiger .
at that point , the sanctions coalition will most likely dis integrate amid a much broader loss of confidence in us leadership .
the us has thus painted itself into a corner .
like us policy toward the soviet bloc during the cold war , “ an iranian military threat aimed at israel or any other us friend in the middle east would be treated as if directed at the united states itself and would precipitate a commensurate us response . ”
i can certainly see the wisdom in br z ez in ski ’ s approach .
but obama has marched the us and its allies too far down the current path .
moreover , and crucially , br z ez in ski for gets that obama ’ s determination to stop iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon does not stem only from his concern for israel ’ s security or the stability of the wider middle east .
obama has repeatedly committed himself to the goal of turning the world in the direction of “ global zero ” – a world without nuclear weapons .
he believes ( as do former secre tar ies of state henry kissinger and george sh ul tz , former secretary of defense william per ry , and former senator sam n un n ) that unless the world finds a way to live without nuclear weapons , we will find ourselves in an international system in which 30- 50 states possess them , raising the danger of accidental or deliberate launch to an unacceptably high level .
convincing great powers to eliminate their nuclear arsenals might seem as politically fanciful as pushing gun - control legislation through the us congress , but on that issue , too , obama has made clear that he is willing to try .
however logical or attractive a containment policy might be , and however disastrous the consequences of bombing are likely to be , obama ’ s commitment to realizing global denuclearization as part of his legacy implies that he will not allow another country to acquire a nuclear weapon on his watch , as his predecessors allowed india , israel , north korea , and pakistan to do .
thus , the stakes for both the us and iran are very high .
other countries would do well not to underestimate obama ’ s resolve ; governments that have relations with iran should emphasize that the time to make a deal is now .
and countries like turkey and brazil ( and perhaps india and egypt ) could play a useful role by devising face- saving ways for the iranians to meet the international community ’ s demands , together with longer-term alternatives for fuel enrichment that would be consistent with reducing the global nuclear threat .
america ’ s allies , in turn , must be prepared to close ranks with it on both the out lines of a deal and the willingness to strike militarily .
the art of statecraft is not to choose between war and diplomacy as if they were mutually exclusive alternatives , but to understand how they fit together .
in the case of syria , the west has repeatedly called for diplomacy while ruling out any military action , with predictably bad results .
the us will not make that mistake with iran .
america the hypocritical
in commemor ating the 23 0th anniversary of america ’ s independence last july , president george w. bush noted that the patri ots of the revolutionary war believed that all men are created equal , and with in ali enable rights .
because of these ideals , he proclaimed , the united states “ remains a beacon of hope for all who dream of liberty and a shining example to the world of what a free people can achieve . ”
but , at the same time , his administration was holding approximately 400 prisoners at the us naval base at guantánamo bay in cuba .
some of them have now been there for more than five years . none of them has ever been put on trial .
last month , a highly reput able source confirmed that the guantánamo prisoners are suffering from more than indefinite detention .
the us federal bureau of investigation released documents showing that an fbi agent witnessed “ on several occasions ” detainees who were “ ch ained hand and foot in [ a ] fe tal position to [ the ] floor , ” without a chair , or food or water .
in these conditions , “ most ur inated or defec ated on [ them ] selves . ”
they were left there for 18 or 24 hours , or more .
on one of these occasions , the agent reported , “ the air conditioning was turned up so low that the b are foo ted detain ee was shaking with cold . ”
on another occasion the room was un v enti l ated , the temperature over 100 degrees fa h ren he it , and the detain ee was almost unconscious on the floor with a pile of hair next to him – “ he had apparently been pulling it out throughout the night . ”
another fbi agent was laugh ingly told by a civilian contractor , “ [ y ] ou have to see this . ”
he was then taken to an interrog ation room where he saw a long ha ired man with a full be ard who was g agged with duc t tape that “ covered much of his head . ”
when the agent asked how the tape would be removed , he was not given any answer .
the fbi report noted these incidents with the comment : “ doesn ’ t seem excessive given department of defense policy . ”
several of the detainees told the fbi agents that they had no connection with terrorism and had no idea why they had been abducted and taken to guantánamo .
many prisoners were not captured fighting in afghanistan .
some were picked up in bosnia , indonesia , thailand , maur it ania , and pakistan .
the bush administration says that the detainees are “ enemy combatants ” in the global war against terror – a war that is being waged around the world , and that could last for decades .
the commander of the guantánamo task force , re ar admir al harry b . har ris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners , claiming , “ they ’ re all terrorists ; they ’ re all enemy combatants . ”
but the cia has made mistakes before .
for example , mur at kur na z , a german- born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for four years before being released last august .
the case of khal ed el- mas ri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another of these errors .
seized by the cia in macedonia , he was taken to afghanistan and interrog ated for five months before being released without charge .
a german court has now issued arrest warr ants for those involved in his abduction .
if there are any human rights at all , the right not to be locked up indefinitely without trial is surely one of them .
the us constitution ’ s bill of rights puts considerable emphasis on that right , spec ifying in the sixth amendment that in all criminal prosecu tions , “ the accused shall enjoy the right to a spe edy and public trial , by an impartial jury ” and “ to be informed of the nature and cause of the accus ation ; to be confronted with the wit nesses against him . ”
none of the guantánamo in mates has been granted these rights .
so it has never been proved , by the standards laid down in the us constitution that any of them really are terrorists .
but the sixth amendment does not apply to the guantánamo prisoners , because they are not us citizens and are in a facility that , technically , is not part of us territory , although it is under the full control of the us government .
whatever us courts say about it , abduc ting people all over the world , locking them up for years without establishing that they are guilty of anything , and subjec ting them to harsh and abusive treatment is a fl agr ant violation of international law .
by any standard of justice , it is also just plain wrong .
t om pain e , the great american revolutionary and author of the rights of man , wrote : “ he that would make his own liberty secure must guard even his enemy from oppression ; for if he violates this duty he establishes a precedent that will reach himself . ”
if america would only follow that advice , it might really be a beacon of hope and a shining example .
but as long as it continues to hold and abuse prisoners without giving them a fair trial , america ’ s prof essed ideals will continue to sound to the rest of the world like the deepest hypocrisy .
america the loser
berkeley – the washington post ’ s ca ther ine ramp ell recently recalled that when us president donald trump held a session for har le y- dav id son executives and union representatives at the white house in february 2017 , he than ked them “ for building things in americ a. ” trump went on to predict that the iconic american motor cycle company would expand under his watch .
“ i know your business is now doing very well , ” he observed , “ and there ’ s a lot of spirit right now in the country that you weren ’ t having so much in the last number of months that you have right now . ”
what a difference a year makes .
har le y- dav id son recently announced that it would move some of its operations to jurisdictions not subject to the european union ’ s retaliatory measures adopted in response to trump ’ s tariffs on imported steel and aluminum .
trump then took to twitter to say that he was , “ surprised that har le y- dav id son , of all companies , would be the first to wave the white flag . ”
he then made a promise that he can not keep : “ … ultimately they will not pay tariffs selling into the eu . ”
then , in a later tweet , trump fal sely stated that , “ early this year har le y- dav id son said they would move much of their plant operations in kansas city to thailand , ” and that “ they were just using tari ff s/ trade war as an excuse . ”
at any rate , trump ’ s point is non sens ical .
if companies are acting in anticipation of his own announcement that he is launching a trade war , then his trade war is not just an excuse .
in yet another tweet , trump turned to threats , warning that , “ har ley must know that they won ’ t be able to sell back into u . s. without paying a big tax ! ”
but , again , this is non sens ical : the entire point of har le y- dav id son shifting some of its production to countries not subject to eu tariffs is to sell tari ff - free motor cycles to europeans .
in a final tweet , trump decre ed that , “ a har le y- dav id son should never be built in another country – never ! ”
he then went on to promise the destruction of the company , and thus the jobs of its workers : “ if they move , watch , it will be the beginning of the end – they surr endered , they quit !
the a ura will be gone and they will be taxed like never before ! ”
needless to say , none of this is normal .
trump ’ s statements are dr ipping with contempt for the rule of law .
and none of them rises to the level of anything that could be called trade policy , let alone governance .
it is as if we have returned to the days of henry vi ii , an impul sive , der anged mon arch who was surrounded by a g agg le of plutocr ats , l ick sp it t les , and flat ter ers , all trying to advance their careers while keeping the ship of state afloat .
trump is clearly incapable of executing the duties of his office in good faith .
the us house of representatives and senate should have impe ached him and removed him from office already – for violations of the us constitution ’ s em ol uments clause , if nothing else .
barring that , vice president mike pence should have long ago invoked the 2 5th amendment , which provides for the removal of a president whom a majority of the cabinet has deemed “ unable to dis charge the powers and duties of his office . ”
and yet , neither speaker of the house paul ryan nor senate majority leader mit ch mc connell nor pence has dared to do anything about trump ’ s assault on american democracy .
republicans are paralyzed by the fear that if they turn on trump , who is now supported by roughly 90 % of their party ’ s base , they will all suffer at the polls in the midterm congressional election this november .
it is nice to think that the election will fix everything .
but , at a minimum , the democratic party needs a six- percentage-point edge to re take the house of representatives , owing to republican ger ry man dering of congressional districts .
democrats also have to overcome a ger ry man dering effect in the senate .
right now , the 49 senators who caucus with the democrats represent 18 1 million people , whereas the 51 who caucus with the republicans represent just 14 2 million people .
moreover , the us is notorious for its low voter turnout during midterm elections , which tends to hurt democratic candidates ’ prospects .
and trump and congressional republicans have been pre siding over a relatively strong economy , which they inherited from former president barack obama , but are happy to claim as their own .
finally , one must not discount the fear factor .
countless americans routinely fall victim to social-  and cab le- media advertising campaigns that play to their worst instincts .
you can rest assured that in this election cycle , as in the past , elderly white voters will be fed a steady diet of bomb ast about the threat posed by immigrants , people of color , muslims , and other trump- voter bu g abo os ( that is , when they aren ’ t being sold fake diabetes cures and over priced gold funds ) .
regardless of what happens this november , it is already clear that the american century ended on november 8 , 2016 .
on that day , the united states ceased to be the world ’ s leading superpower – the flawed but ultimately well-meaning guarantor of peace , prosperity , and human rights around the world .
america ’ s days of kind le ber g ian hegemony are now behind it .
the credibility that has been lost to the trump ists – ab et ted by russia and the us electoral college – can never be regained .
cambridge – the united states has a trade deficit of about $ 450 billion , or 2.5 % of gdp .
that means that americans import $ 450 billion of goods and services more than they export to the rest of the world .
what explains the enormous us deficit year after year , and what would happen to americans ’ standard of living if it were to decline ?
it is easy to blame the large trade deficit on foreign governments that block the sale of us products in their markets , which hurts american businesses and lowers their employees ’ standard of living .
it ’ s also easy to blame foreign governments that subsidize their exports to the us , which hurts the businesses and employees that lose sales to foreign suppliers ( though us households as a whole benefit when foreign governments subsidize what american consumers buy ) .
but foreign import barriers and exports subsidies are not the reason for the us trade deficit .
the real reason is that americans are spending more than they produce .
the overall trade deficit is the result of the saving and investment decisions of us households and businesses .
the policies of foreign governments affect only how that deficit is divided among america ’ s trading partners .
the reason why americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
in other words , saving minus investment equals exports minus imports – a fundamental accounting identity that is true for every country in every year .
so reducing the us trade deficit requires americans to save more or invest less .
on their own , policies that open other countries ’ markets to us products , or close us markets to foreign products , will not change the overall trade balance .
the us has been able to sustain a trade deficit every year for more than three decades because foreigners are willing to lend it the money to finance its net purchases , by purchasing us bonds and stocks or investing in us real estate and other businesses .
there is no guarantee that this will continue in the decades ahead ; but there is also no reason why it should come to an end .
while foreign entities that lend to us borrowers will want to be repaid some day , others can take their place as the next generation of lenders .
but if foreigners as a whole reduced their demand for us financial assets , the prices of those assets would decline , and the resulting interest rates would rise .
higher us interest rates would discourage domestic investment and increase domestic saving , causing the trade deficit to shrink .
the smaller trade deficit would help us exporters and firms that now compete with imports .
but a decline in the trade deficit would leave americans with less output to consume in the us or to invest in the us to produce future consumption .
and that is only part of the story .
in addition to shrinking the remaining amount of goods and services available to us households and businesses , reducing the trade deficit requires making us goods and services more attractive to foreign buyers and foreign goods less attractive to us buyers .
that means lower us export prices and higher import prices , brought about by a fall in the value of the dollar .
even with the same physical volume of national output , the value of us output to domestic consumers would fall , because the us would have to export more output to obtain the same value of imports .
trade experts estimate that reducing the us trade deficit by one percent of gdp requires export prices to fall by 10 % or import prices to rise by 10 % .
a combination of these price changes is about what it would take to shrink the current trade deficit by 2 % of our gdp , bringing the us close to trade balance .
but , because us exports and imports are 15 % and 12 % of gdp , respectively , a 10 % decline in export prices would reduce average real ( inflation-adjusted ) income by 1.5 % , while a 10 % rise in import prices would reduce real incomes by an additional 1.2 % .
thus , eliminating the trade deficit would require shifting about 2.5 % of us physical production to the rest of the world , as well as a change in export and import prices that reduces their real value by another 2.7 % of gdp .
in short , with no change in the level of national output , americans ’ real incomes would decline by about 5 % .
if the trade deficit shr inks because consumption rises and investment falls , the lower level of investment would cause the growth rate to decline , further decreasing the long-run level of real income .
but if the trade deficit narrow s because households save more and government deficits are reduced , it is possible to have a higher level of investment – and thus higher incomes in the long term .
so changes in america ’ s saving rate hold the key to its trade balance , as well as to its long-term level of real incomes .
blaming others won ’ t alter that fact .
the state of the united states
new york – the us presidential election is still more than half a year away , and it is impossible to know with any certainty who will be nominated to represent the major parties , much less who will be the 4 5th occup ant of the white house .
but it is not too soon to assess the mood of the country 's more than 3 20 million inhabitants and what it will mean for the man or woman who ultimately prevails in what must seem to most people around the world to be an endless political so ap oper a .
the dominant mood in the united states today is one of considerable anxiety , if not outright anger .
the washington post recently published a four- part series of articles revealing popular fury aimed at wall street , muslims , trade deals , washington , police sho ot ings , president barack obama , republicans , immigrants , and other targets .
one of the worst descrip tions to be applied to a person nowadays is “ professional politician . ”
the beneficiaries of this state of mind are anti-establishment candidates who esp ouse policies in opposition to free trade and immigration reform and who call for a radical overhaul of current tax and spending policies .
the details of what they advocate may well differ , but their platforms share a promise of radical departure from the status quo .
the basis of this mood is hardly self- evident , as the country is better off economically than it was a half- dozen years ago , in the immediate aftermath of the 2007-2008 economic crisis .
over nine million jobs have been created since then , interest rates are low ( making loans for homes and cars more affordable ) , and the fall in the price of gasoline is the equivalent of a $ 700 tax cut for the average american family .
moreover , the stock market has risen some 200 % since its low of seven years ago , and millions of people who were without health insurance are now covered .
yet this good economic news is offset in many cases by weak growth in household incomes , which have stagnated in real ( inflation-adjusted ) terms for some 15 years .
the percentage of americans working full time has still not reached the level it was at seven years ago .
and many fear that their jobs will disappear because of foreign competition , new technologies , or outsourcing .
a large number of americans are living longer , but are anxious , as they have failed to set aside the funds needed to ensure that their retirement will allow them to live comfortably into old age .
some are paying health-insurance premiums that they previously had avoided because of mandates in the reform enacted under obama .
there is also the issue of inequality .
this causes real anger , but the problem is not so much inequality ( which , though worse , is nothing inherently new ) as it is the decline in opportunity .
the american dream is giving way to class consciousness – a profound change for a country founded on the ideal that anyone can improve his or her lot through hard work .
but the reasons for anxiety and anger transcend economic realities and worries .
there is also physical insecurity , whether because of crime or the fear of terrorism .
in many communities , there is concern , too , about where the culture and the society are heading .
modern media tend to make things worse .
ours is an age of “ narrow casting , ” not broadcasting .
people increasingly tune in to cable channels or websites that reinforce their views and ideologies .
the national mood transcen ds the election campaign and will pose a real challenge to the new president and congress .
the divisions within and between the democratic and republican parties will make compromise and the formation of coalitions that are essential for governing all but impossible .
concerns over retirement and health-care afford ability will make it that much more difficult to reform entitlements , even though their expansion will drive up the national debt to record levels .
free trade is blamed for job losses and is losing support , even though it has also been a source of new jobs and greater consumer choice – and has strengthened america ’ s strategic position around the world .
immigration , long part of the country ’ s heritage and a source of valuable talent , is now the object of so much controversy that prospects for reform are dim .
the mood of the us may also intensify officials ’ domestic focus .
already turned off by foreign involvement in the wake of the iraq and afghanistan interventions , which cost much more than they achieved , many americans are skeptical of what the us can accomplish abroad .
they are frustrated with allies seen as not carrying their fair share of common burdens , and they are increasingly convinced that the government needs to focus less on the world and more on fixing what is wrong with the us .
some in other countries will no doubt read all of this with satisfaction ; but , overall , it is bad news for much of the world .
an america that is distracted and divided is less likely to be willing and able to take the lead in promoting stability in the middle east , europe , or asia , or in meeting global challenges .
and , without us leadership , these challenges are likely to go un met , turning into problems or , worse , crises .
america w akes up to climate change
after years of debate in the united states , and opposition to action by the bush administration , america is finally wa king up to the reality of global climate change .
leadership is still not coming from the president , but the private sector has begun to act .
leaders of major us companies have decided that global man-made climate change is real , must be controlled , and that business must play a constructive part in the process .
thus , even as the bush administration and some scientific contr arians pretend that there is no problem , us corporate leaders are seeking practical solutions .
the basic situation has been clear for years .
global use of fossil fuels is contributing to a sharp rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide , which is causing the earth to warm .
rainfall patterns are changing .
deser ts and dry regions are becoming dr ier .
extreme weather events such as hurricanes and typho ons are likely to increase .
flooding in europe is likely to intensify , a process that may already have begun .
sea levels are rising , and could climb sharply if global warming leads to a destabilization of the greenland and antarctic ice sheets .
in short , the scientific evidence is strong and growing that the planet is at grave risk , with many ill effects already being felt and more to come .
the proper responses are also increasingly understood .
we must move to a sustainable energy system , one that does not mean a huge increase of carbon in the atmosphere .
this will require a shift to renewable energy sources such as solar power , and perhaps nuclear power , as well as new technologies to capture carbon dioxide at power plants and then to dispose of the carbon dioxide in safe underground deposits .
society will have to pay a price for these investments in new energy technologies , but the benefits will be vastly greater than the price .
the us is the world ’ s major em itter of carbon dioxide from energy use , but it has done the least among all major economies to confront the global challenge .
yet real action in the us is starting , thanks to leadership in other parts of the world , and thanks to the enlightened understanding of some major american businesses .
first , the rest of the world ratified the kyoto protocol to control emissions of carbon dioxide .
at the beginning of this year , europe introduced a new greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme that uses market-based incentives to control carbon emissions .
american companies operating in europe are part of that system for their european- based emissions , so that us companies are being pulled into climate control even if their own government avoids the issue .
second , major us investors , such as pension fund managers , are realizing that us companies that fail to control their emissions may be vulnerable to financial losses in the future .
they know that , sooner or later , the us will have to join the rest of the world in controlling climate change .
at that point , power companies that use antiqu ated technologies that emit massive amounts of greenhouse gases may face serious financial losses .
so investors are telling companies to report their carbon emissions today in order to assess future liabilities .
similarly , many company bosses know that pretending that climate problems do not exist is bad for shareholders , because reality will one day strike .
they know that investing today in clean technologies can give them a long-term competitive advantage .
as a result , many companies are taking steps now to limit their emissions to avoid future financial liabilities and a lack of investor confidence .
the most dramatic breakthrough of this kind occurred when general electric , one of the world ’ s most important , innovative , and respected companies , announced that it was going “ green ” with a major new corporate focus on environmentally sound technologies and a commitment to limit its own greenhouse gas emissions .
with ge ’ s leadership , which it termed “ ec om ag ination ” ( combining ec ology with imagination ) , many us businesses are sure to follow .
it is too early to count on success in engaging the us on climate change .
the bush administration continues to delay and to avoid sound science .
yet it is reasonably clear that a tipping point has been reached .
reality is catching up with the us , as it already has elsewhere in the world .
as us citizens and businesses continue to suffer the results of climate change – heat waves , droughts , hurricanes , and floods – more and more americans , including an increasing number of business leaders , will press america ’ s political leaders for real action .
the solutions will not be easy , and the effort must last over many decades in all parts of the world .
but the effort needs to start now .
as with europe ’ s new carbon trading , all producers and consumers around the globe will need to face market incentives to adopt technologies and consumption patterns that slow ( and eventually stop ) the increase of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere .
we will all need to pay a “ market price ” when we contribute to global climate change , so that we give true economic incentives to sustainable energy systems and new public investments – for example , mass transit – that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thereby head off future clim atic disasters .
the right weights for mortgage risks
abu dhabi – ever since hun ter- gather ers started to build their own dwell ings some 14 ,000 years ago , home ownership has been a mark of high social and economic status .
today , the united states has built a mam mo th financial bureaucracy to promote home ownership , and economists , bankers , politicians , and of course homeowners themselves ke enly follow house- price indicators .
but , as we have recently witnessed , unless mortgage risks are properly calculated , the dream of home ownership can all too easily become an economic nightmare .
mortgage debt has become households ’ biggest liability throughout the developed world .
in the decade preceding the financial crisis , us mortgage debt increased almost thre ef old , while the real economy grew by only one-third .
at its 2007 peak , us mortgage debt stood at $ 1 0.6 trillion – more than double the combined gdp of china and india .
a real-estate price crash has also been a key cause of emerging-market crises , such as the 1997- 98 asian collapse .
research shows that lost output during recessions accompanied by a housing bust is double or triple what it might otherwise have been had real-estate prices held up .
moreover , housing bu sts tend to prolong recessions by almost three years .
given the enormous social and economic costs when high levels of mortgage debt meet a crash in house prices , one would expect regulators to be fully engaged on the issue .
unfortunately , they are not .
although the basel committee on banking supervision , the primary global benchmark for bank regulations , proposed reforms after the 2008 crisis that are aimed at strengthening the financial system , mortgage regulations have changed little .
the key to mortgage regulation is the concept of “ risk weight , ” a measure that increases with the probability that a borrower will default .
for example , a loan to a a a- rated microsoft has a 0 % risk weight , meaning that it is virtually risk-free .
a loan to the indian government will have a risk weight of 50 % , and one to a riskier argentina will be weighted at 150 % .
when it comes to mortgages , the standard risk weight is 35 % ( down from 50 % a decade ago ) .
but banks can use internal mathematical models to calculate their own risk weights .
this is akin to marking one ’ s own ex am paper ; unsurprisingly , banks ’ risk scores are usually on the safe side .
consider , for example , a $ 200,000 bank loan to buy a $ 23 5,000 home .
if the bank att aches a 10 % risk weight to the loan , the risk- weighted equivalent is $ 20,000 .
if the amount of bank capital needed to protect that risk- weighted equivalent is 10 % , then the bank requires just $ 2,000 of its own capital to fund the mortgage , $ 198 ,000 of which the bank itself borrows .
all it takes to wi pe out the bank ’ s own money is a 16 % drop in the house ’ s price ( from $ 23 5,000 to below $ 198 ,000 ) .
us house prices – as measured by the s & p / case- sh iller national home price index – fell by more than 30 % from june 2006 to march 2009 , while european countries , including spain , ireland , and the united kingdom , experienced similar or greater declines .
the problem is that banks continue to offer big mortgages while having little of their own “ skin in the game . ”
the imf estimates that the average mortgage risk weight in europe and asia was 14 % and 15 % , respectively , with some banks using a risk weight as low as 6 % .
recently , some regulators have become suspicious of banks ’ do- it- yourself risk weights .
in 2012 , the uk authorities asked banks to apply a temporary minimum 15 % risk weight to their mortgage portfolios , though that guidance exp ired in july .
the swedish regulator has recommended that mortgage lenders raise their risk- weight floor from 15 % to 25 % .
although welcome , these steps may still be too little ; more important , they lack flexibility .
a better option would be to implement time- varying , pro-cyclical flo ors , forcing banks to hold more capital during housing booms .
and , whereas a single , fixed floor might push banks toward riskier loans that offer higher returns for the same amount of capital , a dynamic system would allow lower flo ors for the low est- risk mortgages and require higher flo ors for riskier loans .
moreover , while risk weight is an important macro-prudential lever , it must be used in conjunction with regulators ’ other tools .
these include mortgage eligibility criteria , such as loan- to- value and loan- to- income ratios , and dynamic provis ioning ( that is increasing banks ’ mandatory loan- loss reserves during housing booms ) .
it is important to calibr ate the impact of risk weights on hous ing -market cycles relative to other measures , not least because excessive and overlapping intervention could itself fuel dangerous cycles .
the reliance of modern banking regulation on risk weigh ting is nowhere more important than in the mortgage market .
the views expressed in this column are the author ’ s own , and do not represent those of the national bank of abu dhabi .
har dening brazil ’ s soft power
br as il ia – it is , perhaps , a tru ism for brazil ’ s citizens that their country is and always will be a peaceful one .
after all , brazil has lived with its ten neighbors without conflict for almost 150 years , having settled its borders through negotiation .
it last went to war in 194 2 , after direct aggression by nazi u- boats in the south atlantic .
it has for sworn nuclear weapons , having signed a comprehensive nuclear- safeguards agreement with argentina and the international atomic energy agency .
through the common market of the south ( mer cos ur ) and the union of south american nations ( un as ur ) , brazil is helping to integrate the region politically , economically , socially , and culturally .
but is soft power enough for one of the world ’ s major emerging countries ?
to be sure , brazil ’ s peaceful foreign policy has served it well .
brazil has used its stature to advance peace and cooperation in south america and beyond .
its constructive stance derives from a worldview that accords pride of place to the values of democracy , social justice , economic development , and environmental protection .
brazil ’ s unique approach to promoting these ideals is an important source of its soft power , reflected in the broad international support that placed brazilians at op international institutions like the food and agriculture organization and the world trade organization .
yet no country can rely on soft power alone to defend its interests .
indeed , in an unpredictable world , where old threats are compounded by new challenges , policymakers can not disregard hard power .
by deterring threats to national sovereignty , military power supports peace ; and , in brazil ’ s case , it underpins our country ’ s constructive role in the pursuit of global stability .
that role is more necessary than ever .
over the past two decades , unilateral actions in disregard of the un security council ’ s primary responsibility in matters of war and peace have led to greater uncertainty and instability .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty .
brazil ’ s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access to , or control of , natural resources .
in order to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’ s peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy .
brazil ’ s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , states that the modernization of the armed forces is intrins ically linked to national development .
thus , it emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry .
in accordance with the strategy , brazil is enhancing its conventional deterrence capabilities , including by building a nuclear- propelled submarine as part of a naval program commensurate with its responsibilities in the south atlantic .
brazil coordin ates closely on defense matters with its neighbors , both bilater ally and through un as ur ’ s south american defense council , which aims to promote confidence-building , transparency , a joint regional defense industry , and , most important , a common defense identity .
one potential mechanism for advancing these objectives is a south american defense college , now under consideration .
south america is becoming a region where war is unthinkable – what the political scientist karl deut sch once called a “ security community . ”
having visited every south american country in my tenure as defense minister , i am convinced that , the most effective deterrent on the continent is cooperation .
at the same time , brazil is pursuing increased bilateral defense cooperation with african partners .
with our neighbors on both shores of the south atlantic , brazil is working closely to strengthen the zone of peace and cooperation of the south atlantic ( z p c sa ) , which aims to keep the ocean free from rivalries foreign to it and from nuclear weapons .
for example , brazil conduc ts ib sam ar , a regular trilateral naval exercise , with south africa and india .
more broadly , we are exploring ways to cooperate in the joint development of defense technologies .
through such endeav ors , brazil hopes to contribute to a more balanced international order , one less subject to hegem on ies of any kind , without losing sight of the importance of mutually beneficial partnerships with developed countries .
even as brazil hard ens its soft power , it remains deeply committed to the path of dialogue , conflict prevention , and the negotiated settlement of disputes .
the presence of brazilian peacekeepers in countries like haiti and lebanon underscores brazil ’ s contribution to maintaining peace and security worldwide .
in the twenty-first century , a truly stable global order will depend on a legitimate and effective un security council , one that reflects the plurality of the emerging multipolar world .
china grows down
hong kong – for more than three decades , china ’ s gdp has grown by an average of more than 10 % annually .
but former premier wen jiabao rightly described this impressive growth performance as “ unstable , unbalanced , un coordinated , and unsustainable , ” highlighting the many economic , social , and environmental costs and challenges that have accompanied it .
now china must choose between the export -based , investment- driven growth model of the past and a new , more viable economic order .
cheap credit and perverse incentives – such as promo tions for officials who contribute most to gdp growth – have led to massive but redundant investment , which , in turn , has contributed to excess capacity in manufacturing and infrastructure .
this model is not only inefficient ; channeling government resources to support investment also undermines china ’ s social development .
given this , china ’ s leaders have decided to stop using gdp growth as the primary criterion for evaluating officials ’ performance .
indeed , the 12th five-year plan , which extends until 2015 , aims to shift china ’ s economy to a new , more sustainable growth model based on quality and innovation , and accepts that annual gdp growth will likely fall to 7 % during the transition .
most discussion of growth models nowadays is based on work by the nobel laureate robert sol ow .
for sol ow , gdp growth is determined by the factor inputs of land , labor , and capital , together with the economy ’ s total factor productivity ( tfp , or the change in output not accounted for by changes in the volume of inputs , but by factors like technological innovation and institutional reform ) .
since 1978 , china , by implementing major reforms , has achieved three periods of high tfp growth , each lasting 5- 7 years .
first , in the early 1980 ’ s , following the introduction of the rural house hol d- responsibility system , which boosted agricultural productivity and released a large amount of unskilled labor to work in the higher- productivity urban and industrial sectors , annual tfp growth accelerated to 3-4 % .
the second such period followed deng xiaoping ’ s southern tour in 1992 , during which he emphasized the need to shift to a market-based – albeit state-controlled – system by opening china ’ s economy to foreign direct investment and establishing special economic zones to help develop export-oriented industries .
this time , tfp growth soared to 5- 6 % , partly owing to the “ catching up ” process facilitated by china ’ s adoption of foreign technology and know-how .
finally , after major reforms of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) and the tax system , china acc eded to the world trade organization in 2001 . with the country fully integrated into global supply chains , tfp growth hit 4 % , where it remained until 2007 .
since then , however , the tfp growth rate has fallen by almost half .
indeed , china ’ s economy has experienced a significant – and ongoing – growth slowdown in the wake of the global economic crisis that erupted five years ago .
by 2012 , human capital ’ s contribution to china ’ s gdp growth fell almost to zero , with fixed- capital accumulation accounting for roughly 60 % of total growth .
large-scale , debt- funded capital investments have raised the country ’ s credit / gdp ratio to nearly 200 % , increasing the financial system ’ s vulnerability – a development reflected in the recent spike in interbank interest rates .
in order to achieve more balanced and sustainable gdp growth , china ’ s leaders must implement a set of deep , comprehensive , and long-lasting institutional reforms aimed at boosting tfp .
in particular , the reforms should be designed to facilitate china ’ s transition from its traditional supply- based growth model , which assumes that building hard infrastructure leads automatically to demand growth .
in fact , gdp growth may be slowing precisely because existing investment in manufacturing and infrastructure , undertaken largely by local governments and soes , does not match the pattern of domestic demand .
as a result , china now faces the problem of short-term excess capacity .
rather than directly driving investment , the state must emphasize its regulatory and enforcement functions , including setting and overseeing standards , building an effective property- rights infrastructure , and managing macroeconomic conditions .
at the same time , the state must improve the quality and delivery of education , health care , and security , while minimizing corruption and administrative abuses .
in short , china must shift its focus from meeting gdp growth targets to creating an environment that fosters innovation and competition , thereby enabling market forces to set prices and allocate resources more effectively .
the state would thus become an intermedi ary agent , facilitating the development of a sustainable economic order in which less is more – that is , a system in which less intervention creates more opportunities for creativity .
soes undoubtedly played an important role in china ’ s previous growth model , delivering the infrastructure and services that were deemed necessary for the global manufacturing supply chain to function .
but access to cheap credit from state-controlled banks creates an incentive for soes to generate surplus capacity , which increases systemic risk in the economy .
to correct china ’ s exc ess - capacity problem would require the relevant enterprises , whether soes or private firms , to exit the market .
unless china ’ s leaders implement major structural reforms aimed at establishing a market-based growth model , they will be unable to avoid the “ middle-income trap ” that has prevented so many developing economies from at taining advanced-country status .
the deceler ation in gdp growth that such reforms would cause would be more than offset by increased market dynamism and overall economic stability .
tracking big pharm a ’ s progress on amr
london – this week , at the world economic forum ’ s annual meeting in davos , the access to medicine foundation ( am f ) is launching an antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) benchmark to “ track how pharmaceutical companies are responding to the increase in drug- resistance . ”
the benchmark builds on recommendations made in the may 2016 final report of the british government ’ s review on antimicrobial resistance , which i chaired , and on the important work being done by cha tham house , driv e- ab , the global union for antibiotic research and development , the pew tru sts , and the world health organization .
for the past ten years , the am f , which is independent of the pharmaceutical industry , has published a highly regarded access to medicine index , making it uniquely suited to quanti fy how various companies measure up in the fight against amr .
in my view , the new benchmark will have many benefits , not least for equity analysts who might consider adjusting their stock recommendations on the basis of the am f ’ s findings .
during our review , i learned that many in the investment community were not interested in pharmaceutical companies ’ behavior on this issue , because there were no readily available data by which to make comparisons .
well , now there are .
as i have written previously , the review issued ten comman d ments for confronting the amr threat .
while the am f ’ s benchmark isn ’ t designed to address all ten , it does touch on the areas that are most relevant to the health-care industry .
two areas that would benefit from their own quanti fiable benchmarks are diagnostics , to prevent antibiotics from being prescribed unnecessarily , and agriculture , where antibiotics are used excessively to promote livestock growth .
ultimately , mic robes will build a resistance to any new drugs that we create , so we also need to seek ways to reduce overall demand for antibiotics .
for its part , the af m will calculate its benchmark separately for the eight major pharmaceutical companies that currently appear to be working on replacement drugs , generic producers , and firms focused solely on research and development .
the fact that only eight “ big pharm a ” firms are even attempting to develop new antibiotics and vaccines is a cause for serious concern .
as the review concluded , failure to create effective new drugs could result in ten million people dying from am r -related diseases every year by 2050 , at a cost of some $ 100 trillion .
one of the more radical ideas we discussed during the review concerned financial “ pull ” incentives to reward firms that successfully develop new drugs .
we determined that an effective market- entry reward could be funded by small lev ies on the sales of the other top- 50 pharmaceutical firms that are not carrying their weight .
the new benchmark ’ s overall score for a firm can be broken down into three separate categories : its commitment to research and development for new drugs ; its manufacturing , production , and environmental standards ; and its marketing and distribution practices , which should focus on ensuring access rather than excess .
of the eight big pharm a firms that are included , the british company g la x os mi th k line currently scores the highest .
for those of us who conducted the review , this is no surprise .
frankly , we would not classi fy all eight firms as being truly committed to the cause , but at least with the benchmark , they can now see clearly how they can improve .
it is worth remembering that at the world economic forum ’ s annual meeting in january 2016 , more than 80 companies signed a declaration promising to work toward solutions .
and yet more than 70 of those firms do not appear on the am f ’ s new index .
talk is cheap ; these companies need to put their money where their mouth is .
as for generic producers , the am f ’ s scoring of pollution could prove most important , given that many of these companies operate in developing countries where environmental degradation is a major concern .
policymakers and business leaders in these countries will want to pay attention to how their generic drug producers score , so that they can make improvements .
the benchmark ’ s third category concerns bio tech firms , which conduct research into drugs that can combat the “ priority pathogens ” identified by the who .
this category will be particularly helpful for financial analysts , or even for venture capitalists , given that specific advances could earn a future market- entry reward or have vast commercial potential .
and , of course , the new scoring will also be important to the companies themselves , and for policymakers who are trying to strike a balance between “ pull ” incentives and current prior ity- drug needs .
it would be great to see similar benchmarks for the major food producers and makers of diagnostics .
indeed , i have long believed that diagnostics could be the single biggest game changer in the fight against amr .
but for now , let us hope the pharmaceutical benchmark gets the attention it deserves .
how to fight antimicrobial resistance
zurich – two weeks ago , g20 leaders committed to working together to address one of the world ’ s most pressing and per ple x ing security threats : antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) – a fierce and evolving adversary against which conventional therapeutic weapons are of no use .
the threat is straightforward : bacteria and other mic robes are becoming resistant to available medicines faster than new medicines are being developed .
every year , drug-resistant mic robes kill about 700,000 people worldwide – more than three times the annual death toll from armed conflicts .
in 2016 , a special panel commissioned by the british government predicted that , by 2050 , as many as ten million more people will die from drug-resistant mic robes every year .
amr now poses a clear and present danger to every person on the planet .
unless we confront it head-on , we could return to a world in which it is common for people to die from basic infections .
beyond the cost in human lives , amr could deva state the world ’ s economies .
in europe alone , the annual health-care costs and productivity losses associated with amr already total an estimated € 1.5 billion ( $ 1.7 billion ) .
the g20 , for its part , has taken an important step forward .
each g20 country has promised to start implementing national plans to fight amr in ear nest , and to do more to promote new treatments against resistant mic robes .
to that end , g20 leaders are calling for an international “ r & d collaboration hub ” to “ maximize the impact of existing and new anti- mic robial basic and clinical research initiatives . ”
and they have promised to explore how market incentives can be used to encourage new research .
beyond the g20 , innovative public-private partnerships are emerging to deliver new treatments against drug-resistant killers such as tuberculosis .
and some governments have already started filling critical roles in the global response to amr , by collecting data on the spread of resistant strains of e. col i , sal mon ell a , and other common pathogens .
now it is up to political leaders to follow through on their commitments .
because new treatments for multi drug-resistant mic robes aren ’ t expected to generate much return on investment , it is incumbent upon governments to make research and development in this field more attractive to private companies , and , in order to stem the development of resistance , to ensure that new drugs are not over used .
when traditional market mechanisms fail , instruments such as “ transfer able market exclu si v ities ” can help , by allowing drug makers to transfer an antimicrobial medicine ’ s intellectual-property benefits to another drug .
when private institutions enter into such collaborative efforts , they must be prepared to work outside of traditional boundaries , accept the challenges associated with complex public projects , and be willing to bring their skills , ideas , and experience to the table .
in responding to amr , we can learn some valuable lessons from other global public-health efforts .
malaria , which is caused by a paras ite transmitted by more than 100 species of an op hel es mosquito , is a leading cause of death in many parts of the world .
but now that many governments and private institutions have made fighting the disease a high priority , its death toll has been halved over the last 15 years .
still , the paras ite that causes malaria is developing resistance to art emis in in , which forms the basis for the most effective treatment : art emis in in -based combination therapies .
art emis in in resistance first emerged in cambodia just over a decade ago , and has since spread through thailand , laos , vietnam , myanmar , and china .
it is now approaching india , and experts are sure that it will eventually reach africa .
according to one recent study , if art emis in in resistance is allowed to spread , malaria will kill at least 1 16 ,000 more people every year .
unless new treatments become available , the tremendous progress that the world has made against malaria will have been trag ically short-lived .
fortunately , those engaged in the global response to malaria recognize that just as paras ites are adapting , so must we .
new efforts are underway to identify and minimize the spread of resistant malaria , while simultaneously developing new art emis in in- free treatments .
for example , the regional art emis in in- resistance initiative is working to halt the spread of resistant malaria in the mekong delta region , by monitoring and sharing drug- resistance data and promoting proper use of antim al arial treatments .
so far , the initiative has secured € 110 million through the global fund to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , which is financed primarily by governments .
moreover , novartis and the medicines for malaria venture ( with support from the bill & melinda gates foundation ) are starting a new clinical trial next month to test k af 15 6 , a mol ecu le that could form the basis of a new treatment against art emis in in- resistant malaria strains .
at the 2016 world economic forum in davos , switzerland , 100 companies ( including novartis ) and industry associations signed the davos declaration on amr .
under that commitment , we promised to work together with governments to slow the development of resistance , by increasing our investments in r & d and making high-quality antibiotics available to patients who need them .
the g20 ’ s national action plans will , we hope , help us to meet these commitments .
but political leaders , too , must marshal the will to turn words into action .
we urgently need more resources to monitor resistance , stronger incentives for r & d , and innovative financing mechanisms to ensure widespread access to accurate diagnoses and quality medicines .
the world can not afford to lose the fight against amr .
winning it will require large-scale public-private cooperation , underpinned by political leadership that makes global public health a top priority .
a murder in moscow
it is time to end the fiction that vladimir putin ’ s “ dictatorship of law ” has made post communist russia any less law less .
the murder of anna polit kov sk aya , one of russia ’ s bra vest and best journalists , a woman who dared to expose the brutal murders committed by russian troops in chechnya , is final proof that president putin has delivered nothing more than a run of the mill dictatorship with the usual contempt for law .
this recognition is a timely one for the world to make , particularly europe .
germany ’ s foreign ministry is preparing a policy on russi an / german relations that will enshr ine indifference to putin ’ s lawlessness as being in the national interest of the most powerful member of the european union .
but indifference becomes appeasement when it encourages putin to pursue his law less ways in the international arena , as in his current campaign to strang le georgia ’ s economy .
the killing of polit kov sk aya has incited an e er ie sense of dé j à v u : just as in the kgb ’ s hey day , people simply disappear in putin ’ s russia .
polit kov sk aya ’ s is the third politically t ing ed killing in three weeks .
andre i ko z lo v , the deputy governor of russia ’ s central bank who was leading a campaign against financial fraud , was assassinated on september 14 .
the fact that russia ’ s prosecutor general y uri cha ika , took over the investigation into polit kov sk aya ’ s killing , as he did with the murder of ko z lo v , doesn ’ t inspire hope , as such senior level involvement would in any real democracy .
in fact , the involvement of the highest level of russia ’ s government is almost a guarantee that the killers will never be found .
polit kov sk aya ’ s murder is a particularly grim aug ury when you consider that she was a powerful critic of russia ’ s president .
in her articles for one of the few remaining independent papers in moscow , nov aya ga ze ta , and in her books “ putin 's russia : life in a failing democracy ” and “ a dirty war : a russian reporter in chechnya , ” polit kov sk aya wrote of the van ishing freedoms that are the signature characteristic of putin ’ s presidency .
as shown by the exile of the former media tyco ons boris ber ez ov sky and vladimir gus in ky , and the imprisonment of oil magn ate mikhail khodorkovsky , three f ates await putin ’ s enemies : exile , imprisonment , or the grave .
i am not accusing putin ’ s government of the contract killing of polit kov sk aya .
after all , as a campaigning investigative journalist she made many people angry besides putin , not least of which is the current chechen prime minister , ram z an kad y rov , whom she accused of a policy of kidn apping for rans om .
but even if vladimir putin ’ s associates had nothing to do with polit kov sk aya being gun ned down in an elev ator of her apartment building in the center of moscow , his contempt for law created the climate in which the murder was carried out .
like the murder of arch b ish op thomas bec ke tt in his can ter bury ca the dr al many centuries ago , the crime was committed in the clear belief that it would please the king .
given what polit kov sk aya represent ed — the responsibility of a democratic press to question the kremlin and its polic ies — the government should have made certain that nothing bad happened to her .
putin ’ s russia has already lost 12 leading journalists to murder in the past six years .
none of those crimes has been solved , which would not be the case if putin ’ s “ dictatorship of law ” was anything more than a pr strategy .
the six year period since vladimir putin arrived in the kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals .
on one hand , the world sees a young , educated leader pledging to modernize russia , particularly in terms of bringing its law enforcement and judicial practices into line with international norms .
on the other , the president watches in silence while his ex- colleagues in russia 's fsb security service ( the former kgb ) provide no security to those murdered , and launch a series of notorious espionage cases against journalists , scientists , and environmental activists .
these “ neo- sp ies ” include journalist g reg ory pas ko , arms control expert ig or su ty ag in , diplomat val ent in mo is ey ev , physicist val ent in dan il ov , and others .
the supposedly civil izing influence of being a western partner — chair ing a g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example — seems to have been lost on putin ’ s kremlin cab al .
once again exposure to western values has delivered another pot em kin village ; russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind that card board surface the same arbitrary bru tes rule .
the danger for the world is that putin ’ s lawlessness is being exported .
across russia ’ s near abroad , a form of crimin alized diplomacy is taking root .
look at putin ’ s attempt to ri g ukraine ’ s previous presidential election , and the on again off again criminal charges brought against the opposition leader y uli ya tymoshenko .
look at the rogue break away regions in moldova and georgia that exist only because of the kremlin ’ s backing .
look at how the kremlin seeks to blackmail its neighbors by threatening their energy supplies .
every polic eman knows that when you ignore criminal behavior , criminals grow bolder .
it is past time for the world to recognize vladimir putin for what he is : a man who is taking russia back into the shadows .
so the world must now ponder that old latin ma x im qu i tac et consen ter e vide tur  – silence means consent – and ask itself if it is wise to quietly consent to putin ’ s construction of a law less energy superpower .
an accidental cure for iraq
doctors use the word “ crisis ” to describe the point at which a patient either starts to recover or dies .
most commentators appear to think that bush ’ s latest prescription – a surge of 20,000 additional troops to suppress the militias in baghdad – will , at best , merely postpone the inevitable death of his dream of a democratic iraq .
yet as “ battle of baghdad ” begins , factors beyond bush ’ s control and not of his making ( at least not intentionally ) may just save iraq from its doom .
one key factor is that , for the first time since the united states and britain invaded iraq , arab sunni leaders are backing a us military plan for that country .
these sunni leaders live in ab jec t fear of the geopolitical earthquake that any disintegration of political authority in baghdad would bring , believing that all-out civil war would invariably follow – a war that would not respect international borders .
of course , america has been encouraging sunni leaders in this belief .
secretary of state condoleez za rice ’ s recent tour of middle east capitals helped spread the word to egypt , jordan , saudi arabia , and the gulf states that any us failure and sudden withdrawal would be certain to destabilize them .
given the fragile grip that these leaders have over their societies , america ’ s warnings have been taken to heart .
but the truly curious factor that might bring success to bush is that those who have opposed or res ented america ’ s presence in iraq , such as the iran ian- backed shi ’ a parties now also appear to want bush ’ s new strategy to succeed .
they are for it because they believe it will def ang mo q t ada al- sad r , the rogue shi ’ a cleric whose power has mush ro omed over the past three years – to the point that he now dominates much of baghdad and holds the allegiance of countless angry young shi ’ a men .
of course , attacking mo q t ada al- sad r ’ s mah di army in the name of fighting militia death squ ads has the potential to draw american military forces into a level of urban warfare un seen since the fall u ja assaults of 2004 and 2005 .
al- sad r is seen as the protec tor of the shi ’ a of iraq and has are an estimated 60,000 fighters in his militia .
but he is deeply mistr u sted by other shi ’ a leaders , who fear that they may one day have to take him on by themselves .
better to let the americans do it , though of course these shi ’ a leaders prefer a slow strang ulation of al- sad r to a direct and bloody assault .
but make no mistake : how al- sad r is handled is the big test of bush ’ s new strategy .
should the us choose to face al- sad r and his forces head on , they risk alien ating iraq ’ s largest sectarian community , the shi ’ a , adding fuel to the anti- occupation resistance and thus probably do oming bush to failure .
iran and syria , which have played a spoil er role in iraq up to now , may also now be anxious to find a way to pull the country back from the brink .
bush still refuses to talk to either of them , and has lately been having us troops arrest iranian agents in iraq .
yet iran may already see itself as victorious , with the current iraqi government friend lier than any the iranians have ever known .
so maintaining that government in office has now become a strategic priority for iran , particularly as it is now clear that any us hopes of using iraq as a permanent military base are dead .
the “ surge ” also opens , perhaps for the first time , a serious possibility of pouring water on the insurgent fires in an bar province , the heartland of the sunni insurgency .
the us has achieved relative successes in the province through alliances with sunni tribes .
the hope is that such realistic and pragmatic accommod ations will be extended to iraqis who are fighting under the banner of a nationalist and anti- occupation agenda .
so some of the stars have come into alignment for bush .
but to keep them there in the long term , the iraqi government will need to amend the constitution in a way that appe ases the sunni community .
reassuring iraq ’ s sunnis that they have a place in the new iraq will also reassure neighboring sunni governments , which have mostly turned a blind eye to the support for the insurgency that has come from their lands .
of course , should the us see failure ahead , it could seek to broaden the war beyond iraq ’ s borders by attacking iran , a policy reminiscent of “ operation sid es how , ” when us failure in vietnam in the late 1960 ’ s enti ced president nixon into attacking cambodia and laos .
but iran has resources that cambodia and laos could never muster ; indeed , its ability to retaliate could set the entire region ab la ze .
whereas america ’ s war in in do china was a tragic mistake , the cost of a wider war precip itated by the crisis in iraq would be in compar ably greater – for both the patient and the doctor .
an agenda for growth in europe
that gap is likely to widen as europe ’ s demographic profile dark ens , and if productivity continues to grow more slowly than elsewhere in the industrial economies .
why have the large european economies failed to catch up with us income levels ?
the bulk of the shortfall is due to less intensive use of labor : employment rates for women and for the oldest and youngest age groups are lower in the euro area than in the us , working hours are far fewer , and , least significantly , unemployment rates are higher .
some take con sol ation from this , viewing it as positive that europeans prefer leisure to work .
but low levels of labor utilization are largely due to heavier income taxes and social security contributions , as well as high social benefit levels introduced at a time when the labor force was growing rapidly and the need to replace invol un tary with voluntary unemployment seemed more urgent than today .
these measures will need to be revis ited both to increase the supply of labor and to make public finances more sustainable .
this process is already underway , particularly in italy and france , through cuts in social security contributions for lower- paid workers , tighter conditions for drawing unemployment benefits , and tax credits for “ the working poor . ”
since the mid-1990 ’ s , the relative decline in employment in these countries has , indeed , been slightly reversed .
but factors beyond taxes and benefits also contribute to low employment rates in all the three major euro-zone economies : high minimum wages and some features of employment protection legislation slow down the flow of workers through the job market .
although a long agenda of reforms is beginning to be tackled , first in germany and , more recently and cau tiously , in france , the results are slow in coming and public understanding of the need for change remains limited .
much can be learned from each country ’ s experience and from that of smaller eu member states , but labor market reforms inevitably have a strong national fl av or .
employment objectives have been formulated for all eu member states since 1997 in the so-called european employment strategy ( ees ) , now part of the “ lisbon agenda , ” the set of goals established to boost eu productivity .
but , with the policy instruments for achieving these goals largely national and the arguments for applying them simultaneously in several member states weak , the ees has created unrealistic public expectations and triggered only limited action by governments .
nor is the employment gap with the us the only problem for europe .
beginning in the mid-1990 ’ s , the rate of growth in output per hour worked – a key factor behind the rise in per capita income – slowed in most european countries while it rose in the us , reversing a decades-long pattern .
between 2000 and 2004 , hourly labor productivity rose more than twice as fast in the us than in the large euro zone economies – 2.8 % per year versus little more than 1 % .
so why have the europeans been unable to sustain improvements in both foundations of growth – employment and productivity – at the same time ?
this proved possible not only in the us , but also in other advanced economies outside europe – australia , canada , and new zealand – and , unsurprisingly , in the new eu member states .
the explanation is not capital spending , which is normally linked to productivity growth .
there have been no major differences between the us and the large euro zone economies here .
this leaves the “ explanation ” to what economists call total factor productivity ( tfp ) , a mix of several important elements , including innovation activity , a well-functioning financial system ready and willing to take risks , and organizational flexibility that facilitates rapid diffusion of new technologies .
the main lap se in tfp growth in europe over the past decade has been in services ( excluding information and communications technologies ) .
so deregulation and integration of services will be essential if the euro area ’ s tfp is to improve , as more than two-thirds of total income in most eu economies is generated in this sector .
while product markets have held center stage in the creation of the single european market , services continue to be fragmented by national regulatory , anti- competitive practices .
much of the explanation lies in the very heter ogene ity of services and the greater difficulties that mutual recognition , or the “ country- of- origin principle ” – essential in the integration of product markets – implies for services .
unfortunately , reform was derailed in 2005 .
during the referendum campaign in france preceding the vote on the draft eu constitutional treaty , the proposed directive was vil ified as undermining the rights of labor , symbol ized by that dreaded bo ge y man , the “ polish plum ber . ”
these attacks overlooked the fact that the directive makes employment conditions of workers from other eu- member states subject in most respects to ho st- country rules .
a revised version of the directive that reduces its sectoral scope and makes a number of compromises with the country- of- origin principle is now before the european parliament .
it is a sad reflection on the state of the eu that it seems unable to agree on the one clear productivity- advancing piece of legislation when improving productivity is held out as a shared goal .
the failure to mobilize consumer interests in favor of european integration is particularly disappointing for the new member states , which had expected to reap some of the benefits .
an alliance of civilizations ?
madrid – the first international forum of the alliance of civilizations , conceived as an anti dote to the idea that the world is doomed to a “ clash of civilizations , ” recently met in madrid and revealed that there is more than a grain of truth in robert k agan ’ s idea that americans are from mars and europeans from ven us .
ever since september 11 , 2001 , the united states has been engaged in a crus ade against the forces of evil in the muslim world .
by contrast , the march 11 , 2004 , terrorist attack on spain , which left 200 dead , triggered an “ anti- crus ade ” that seeks to dis arm extremism by building bridges of understanding and reconciliation with islam .
co- sponsored by spain and turkey , the alliance of civilizations initiative is not devoid of political calculation .
to the span i ards , it helps to justify their abrupt withdrawal from iraq in 2004 ; for the turks , it is yet another vehicle in their struggle , as the vital bridge between islam and the west , for admission into the european union .
a loose and somewhat confused project , the alliance of civilizations aims to heal the wounds of conflict between islam and the west through education , viable integration policies , and a better- informed dialogue with the media .
but it suffers from the major global players ’ profound skepticism , with the us , russia , and , for that matter , the eu shown no real enthusiasm for it .
however vague , the alliance of civilizations idea certainly can not do more harm than war against islamic extremism .
after all , none of the muslim world ’ s problems and conflicts with the west are susceptible to a military solution .
moreover , the alliance is not an entirely incoherent proposal if the objective is that the west dis engage from the politics of hubris and establish a genuine sphere of cooperation with the muslim world in economics , culture , and science .
of course , the idea is held back by the inner workings of both parts of the proposed alliance .
many in the west question whether islam is compatible with human rights and western concepts of liberty .
many muslims who have been fighting for years for their countries ’ modernization have so far failed to find a lu ci d response to the progressive wave of radical islam .
to claim that islam is incompatible with human rights is to consider it a civilization too hi deb ound to change .
this is a historic fallacy .
nor is the claim that islam is intrins ically in im ical to innovation viable , because muslim civilization has contributed migh tily to science and art throughout history .
today , western universities are replete with distinguished arab scholars in almost every field – the result of a brain drain that itself reflects the islamic world ’ s centuries of decline .
in 2005 , the 17 countries of the arab world together produced 13 , 4 44 scientific publications , fewer than the 15 , 4 55 achieved by harvard university alone .
enemies of reason , however , are also to be found in the west .
we live in an age in which many people are disillusioned with secular politics , and are turning to religion instead , not only throughout the muslim world , but in the core of western civilization , christian europe and evangel ist america .
nor is the jewish state of israel , where messi anic fanatics and religious nationalists have embraced a political the ology that questions the very legitimacy of the democratic institutions , immune from this phenomenon .
the current crisis of islam might not be con gen ital , but islam ’ s predicament is acute .
the question is this : are muslims ready to accept that khomeini ’ s dictum that “ islam is politics or it is nothing ” is wrong , that islam is a religion and not a form of government , and that , as in the christian world , there is a sphere for ca es ar and a sphere for god ?
those in the muslim world who want to embrace reform must be driven by the conviction that the ocracy has never served as a vehicle for human progress .
of course , the alliance of civilizations should not attempt to bridge differences by defending moral relati v ism .
if it is driven by a western guilt complex that assumes that the solution simply lies in greater empathy for the muslim predicament , then the skeptics are bound to be vindicated .
tolerance and religious freedom must be mutual .
islam ’ s part in the deal must include a guarantee of human rights and civil liberties , improvement in women ’ s status , and realistic policies to stem the islamic world ’ s demographic explosion .
some , as usual , will claim that the arab-israeli conflict lies at the root of the problems that exist between islam and the west , and that resolving the palestinians ’ plight will contribute immensely to smo other relations .
but arabs and muslims must stop delu ding themselves that the israel-palestine dispute is what is holding them back .
ending the american occupation in iraq and imposing an arab-israeli peace would help , but they are no panacea .
the fight to eradicate misery , illiteracy , and corruption , and islam ’ s embrace of science , do not depend on the results of the middle east peace process .
an alliance of equals
paris – during nato ’ s recent 60th anniversary ceremony in str as bour g , the alliance welcomed two new members , albania and croatia , bringing its total membership to 28 .
this expansion is a good thing , for history has tor m ented these two countries .
being welcomed within the great international family of the west will reassure them , stabilize them , and contribute to their political , cultural , and economic development .
but the good news was limited , because nato addressed only a routine agenda .
no core problem was really tackled .
the controversy that arose in france over the country ’ s return to nato ’ s unified military command makes this abundantly clear .
was france losing its autonomy , perhaps even its sovereignty ?
was it capit ulating to american hegemony ?
these are real questions , yet at the nato summit people spoke of them more in terms of symbols than as realities .
but what is the reality here ?
nato is a military alliance composed of 28 countries .
one of them , the united states , has a military budget that is more than three times that of all the other members combined .
hence , the us runs most nato civilian and military commands with the consent of the others .
of course , there is a collective consultation and deliber ative process that enables any member to be heard .
but in reality a member ’ s actual power is what affects common decisions .
this structure har ks back to the conditions of nato ’ s birth , when it was forged to thwart the soviet threat to western civilization .
at the time , no one ever doubted that american power – already endowed with nuclear weapons – was the only counterpart .
for this reason , the us came to presid e over the alliance .
during the 41 years of the cold war , 14 of nato ’ s 16 members strictly o bey ed and compli ed with american decisions and policies .
french president charles de gaulle was the only one to question whether an american president would actually ever be ready to launch a nuclear attack on the ussr in order to protect one or several alliance members if vital us interests were not directly at stake .
based on that doubt , france – a nuclear power since 1960 – withdrew in 196 6 from the alliance ’ s permanent centralized military command in order to assert its own deterrent capability .
this decision was mainly grounded on the american doctrine , adopted in 1962 , of “ flexible response , ” which said to the soviets : “ as long as you do not use nuclear weapons , we will not use them , either . ”
indeed , while it is a much disputed question , de gaulle was probably right about america ’ s lack of commitment to the nuclear defense of europe .
both henry kissinger and robert mc nam ara left office admitting that de gaulle had been correct .
nevertheless , de gaulle ’ s insights left a legacy that still causes some mistrust and dissent within nato .
france was right on this key strategic point , but it was never able to explain its position to its allies .
this inability to discuss , clearly and for thr igh tly , this strategic doctrine continues to hamper the alliance .
at the str as bour g summit , confidence in the future could have been strengthened if a couple of troubling issues had been discussed .
instead , once again , there was an extended focus on the past .
the key questions are whether nato ’ s doctrine of common defense is currently directed at one country in particular , and whether nuclear force remains the alliance ’ s major defensive tool .
in the current global situation , no predictable conflict will require the use of a nuclear weapon .
at the moment , there is no global threat and the alliance only interven es in regional conflicts , so why not have nato admit this ?
but the most important matter that went un mentioned in str as bour g is the relationship with russia .
nato was founded to confront the threat that the ussr represented 60 years ago .
but the warsaw pact , the soviet union ’ s “ anti- nato ” alliance of socialist countries , was dissolved in 1991 ; communism implo ded the same year , with russia caught ever since in a struggle to build a market economy and define a new global position for itself .
at a time when russia was taking a more pacific course , nato – unlike the warsaw pact – was not dismantled .
on the contrary , the allies chose to maintain the pact and to extend it to numerous russian neighbors .
nato ’ s members essentially said : “ we western nations do not trust you . even if you become a democracy , we will always be suspicious . ”
george kennan , one of the greatest american diplomats of the post-war years , once wrote that the western world was committing its biggest mistake in 50 years time by expanding nato after soviet communism collapsed .
the resulting humiliation and blatant mistrust that russia ’ s elite has felt ever since has led them to their current policy of re armament .
the only way to resolve this problem is for nato to assert its pacific intentions before the world .
the most convincing way to do that is to moderate america ’ s excessive taste for power , which it demonstrated in iraq .
nato needs to shift its focus from organizing and administ ering a unified military command to building real confidence that every member ’ s voice will be heard .
to that end , all members must stand on an equal footing .
france ’ s decision to return to full and equal alliance membership was a good one , and france must now work from within to advance the principles in which it believes .
avoiding a new american recession
cambridge – the united states may be headed for a recession in 2013 .
even if the country avoids going over the “ fiscal cliff , ” a poorly designed political compromise that cuts the deficit too quickly could push an already weak economy into recession .
but a gradual phas e- in of an overall cap on tax deductions and exclu sions ( so-called tax expenditures ) , combined with reform of entitlement spending , could achieve the long-run fiscal consolidation that america needs without risking a new recession .
the us economy has been lim ping along with a growth rate of less than 2 % during the past year , with similarly dim prospects in 2013 , even without the shock of the fiscal cliff . that is much too weak a pace of expansion to tolerate the fiscal cliff ’ s increase in tax rates and spending cuts , which would reduce demand by a total of $ 600 billion – about 4 % of gdp – next year , and by larger sums in subsequent years .
president barack obama ’ s proposed alternative to the fiscal cliff would substantially increase tax rates and limit tax deductions for the top 2 % of earners , who now pay more than 45 % of total federal person al- income taxes .
together , these changes could lower total demand by nearly 2 % of gdp .
and the higher marginal tax rates would reduce incentives to work and to invest , further impeding economic activity .
all of that could be fateful for an economy that is still struggling to sustain a growth rate of less than 2 % .
the congressional budget office and the federal reserve predict that going over the fiscal cliff would cause a recession in 2013 , with fed chairman ben bernanke recently saying that the fed would be unable to offset the adverse effect on the economy .
he could have said the same thing about the fiscal drag that would be created by obama ’ s budget proposal .
although congressional republicans rightly object to raising tax rates , they appear willing to raise revenue through tax reform if that is part of a deal that also includes reductions in the long-run cost of the major entitlement programs , medicare and social security .
although some republicans would like to see revenue increased only by stimulating faster economic growth , that can not be achieved without the reductions in marginal tax rates and improvements in corporate taxation that the democrats are unlikely to accept .
raising revenue through tax reform will have to mean reducing the special deductions and exclu sions that now lower tax receipts .
the potential recession risk of a budget deal can be avoided by phasing in the bas e- broadening that is used to raise revenue .
a desirable way to broaden the tax base would be to put an overall cap on the amount of tax reduction that each taxpayer can achieve through deductions and exclu sions .
such an overall cap would allow each taxpayer to retain all of his existing deductions and exclu sions but would limit the amount by which he could reduce his tax liability in this way .
an overall cap would also cause many individuals who now it em ize deductions to shift to the standard deduction – implying significant simp lification in record- keeping and thus an improvement in incentives .
a cap on the tax reductions derived from tax expenditures that is equal to 2 % of each individual ’ s adjusted gross income would raise more than $ 200 billion in 2013 if applied to all of the current deductions and to the exclu sions for municip al- bond interest and employ er- paid health insurance .
even if the full deduction for charitable gifts is preserved and only high- value health insurance is regarded as a tax expenditure , the extra revenue in 2013 would be about $ 150 billion .
over a decade , that implies nearly $ 2 trillion in additional revenue without any increase in tax rates from today ’ s levels .
extra revenue of $ 150 billion in 2013 would be 1 % of gdp , and could be too much for the economy to sw allow , particularly if combined with reductions in government spending and a rise in the payroll tax .
but the same basic framework could be used by starting with a higher cap and gradually reducing it over several years .
a 5 % cap on the tax- expenditure benefits would raise only $ 75 billion in 2013 , about 0.5 % of gdp ; but the cap could be reduced from 5 % to 2 % over the next few years , raising substantially more revenue when the economy is stronger .
slowing the growth of government spending for medicare and social security is necessary to prevent a long-term explosion of the national debt or dramatic increases in personal tax rates .
those changes should also be phased in gradually to protect beneficiaries and avoid an economic downturn .
america ’ s national debt has more than doubled in the past five years , and is set to rise to more than 100 % of gdp over the next decade unless changes in spending and taxes are implemented .
a well-designed combination of caps to limit tax expenditures and a gradual slowing of growth in outlays for entitlement programs could reverse the rise in the debt and strengthen the us economy .
america ’ s current budget negotiations should focus on achieving a credible long-term decline in the national debt , while protecting economic expansion in the near term .
an arab “ third way ”
am man – throughout the post- colonial period , arab countries have consistently failed to produce an efficient – let alone democratic – system of government .
now , after a half-century of competition between military or royal dictatorships and militant islamist regimes , many arabs are again seeking a “ third way ” – a path toward a credible form of representative democracy .
but will their efforts prove as futile now as they have in the past ?
the middle east – named for its geographic position between europe and east asia – was under ottoman rule for 400 years before the allied powers , after defeating the ott om ans in world war i , parti tioned the region into distinct political units that , under the sy kes- picot agreement , fell within spheres of influence car ved out by the united kingdom and france .
but , in response to these new divisions , an arab awakening – shaped by pan- arab ism and support for palestine – was occurring .
but their failure to deliver better lives to their citizens , together with the dis cred iting of left-wing ideologies following the soviet union ’ s collapse , fueled the rise of a rival movement : political islam .
the muslim brotherhood – established in the egyptian town of is ma il ia in 19 28 and political islam ’ s oldest , best organized , and most widespread pro ponent – was ( and is ) desp ised by both secular arabs and arab monarchies .
indeed , secular dictators have worked to suppress the brothers at every turn – often violently , as when assad ruth lessly crushed a brother ho od- led uprising in h ama in 1982 .
forced to operate cl an dest inely , the brotherhood built its support base with a social agenda that targeted the needs of the poor , while consistently reinforcing its islamic ties , even using the compulsory z ak at ( annual financial contribution to religious causes ) to build up its social network .
the brothers , with the help of a conservative society and the mosques , were prepared to seize power whenever the opportunity arose .
another islamist movement , algeria ’ s islamic salvation front , almost had such an opportunity in 1991 , when it won the first round of a general election .
but the military prevented its victory by canc eling the second round , triggering a brutal eight- year civil war in which an estimated 200,000 people died .
palestine ’ s hamas , an off shoot of the brotherhood , succeeded at the ballot box in 2006 , but has since failed to deliver credible governance .
then the arab spring erupted in 2011 , creating new opportunities for political renewal .
within months , islamist parties shaped by the brotherhood ’ s ideology had replaced secular dictators in tunisia and egypt , and seemed poised to take over yemen and syria , largely because they were the only well- organized political movements on the scene .
moreover , the muslim brotherhood gained control of egypt , the largest and most influential of the arab spring countries .
but their exclusive , rigid ideology was poorly suited to governing such a large and diverse country .
as a result , after only a year in power , the military – backed by the same secular , liberal young people who had opposed it in 2011 – drove president mohamed morsi out of power .
unable to mount a political alternative , however , the protesters ’ rejection of the islamist government served only to put the army back in charge .
some argue that the absence of a secular liberal option in arab politics stems from fear of political islam .
for decades , western powers backed military regimes in the arab world , willingly ignoring their systematic repression of democratic movements and rights , in order to ensure that islamists did not gain power .
now that both the military-  and islam ist -led systems have been discredited , an ideological vacuum has appeared in arab politics .
but arabs today – most of whom are under the age of 30 – are less interested in an overarching political ideology than they are in an efficient representative government that impl ements sound policies aimed at creating jobs and bolstering economic growth .
in short , they want a government that is focused on improving citizens ’ lives .
in fact , the absence of a specific ideology was essential to the arab spring ’ s initial success in egypt and tunisia , for it allowed a large number of young activists to forge loose alliances .
but mass movements can take a country only so far ; establishing a credible representative government requires political parties organized around clearly defined principles .
while the muslim brotherhood has such an organizing principle , its internal rigidity – at least with morsi at its helm – made it un fit to govern .
meanwhile , infighting among egypt ’ s liberals prevented them from establishing a disciplined , reliable alternative to the brotherhood based on principles like diversity , plurality , respect for women , and freedom of expression .
so when the islamist government ’ s credibility collapsed , the military was egypt ’ s only remaining option .
in order to make progress , the you th- led movements that drove the arab spring must translate their shared principles into effective political structures , and choose leaders who are capable of placing the search for consensus ahead of personal ambition .
if they succeed , the arab world may finally have an alternative to rule by generals or mul la hs .
even if they fail to gain power , the emergence of such an alternative would surely influence the arab world ’ s agenda for years to come .
an american oil spill
singapore – when accidents happen , there is always enough blame to go around , and with the deep water horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , no one has been spared – with the exception of one of the main culprits , the american public .
after weeks of sw ir ling wrath , primary responsibility eventually l anded on bp ’ s shoulders .
at hearings before a us senate sub committee , bp ceo tony ha y ward ’ s ev asive maneu vering and failure to answer point - blan k questions inf uri ated congres smen and the american public alike .
his expression of “ contr ition ” may provide some relief that the key culprit has been fin ger ed , but it brought the se aling of the well no closer .
furthermore , the situation in the gulf of mexico is worsening . oil is not lea king at the rate of 1,000 barrels per day , as bp originally estimated , nor up to 19 ,000 b p d , as calculated by the flow rate technical group . as a newly released bp internal document revealed , the actual flow is up to 100,000 b p d .
while there is no denying that the accident will create a long list of victims – the residents of the gulf states being among the worst affected – the american public also is to blame .
an historical addiction to cheap gasoline , and opposition to energy reform as “ un- american , ” has fueled an obsession with drilling , dam ming , and di gging the country ’ s way out of problems .
this emphasis on the supply side ( increasing access to energy fuel ) has obs cured cheaper and possibly more beneficial actions on the demand side ( cutting energy consumption by changing people ’ s behavior ) .
for example , while americans could have supported more aggressive fuel- economy standards or increased federal taxes on energy , they didn ’ t .
under the illusion that lifestyles revol ving around cheap oil and big cars were america ’ s per ennial right , fuel- economy standards langu ished for decades , and politicians avoided the t- word like the plague .
all the while , americans have been enjoying the cheap est gasoline in the developed world .
the country failed to anticipate the rise of china and india , whose expon ential demand growth would have obvious implications for global energy prices .
instead , the supply- demand gap has been partly brid ged by increasingly sophisticated engineering techniques .
technical fe ats like three- dimensional se ism ic im aging and tu be - ro tary drilling are no doubt impressive , but they are problematic when un accompanied by adequate emerg ency- response plans or the regulatory oversight needed to ensure that accidents are prevented and mitigated .
this is plain to see today , and it resulted in obama ’ s kne e- jer k imposition of a moratorium on deep water drilling permits and suspension of existing projects in the gulf of mexico .
while a regulatory overhaul of offshore drilling procedures and policies is clearly necessary , it will be insufficient to reduce the risk of sp ills and accidents if it is not accompanied by other demand-side measures .
for example , now is the time to begin reducing us oil demand through improved fuel- economy standards and/or progressive increases in fuel taxes .
both may be necessary , because , while average fuel economy has made slight gains in recent years , the longer distances that people are traveling have offset any improvement .
the government also could start aggressively pushing a shift to electric vehicles .
in terms of total lif ec ycle costs , these vehicles are three to six times more energy-efficient than their petroleum counterparts .
people could make even simpler changes to their lifestyles by properly infl ating their ti res , driving more slowly on the highway – a car is most fuel efficient at about 55 miles ( 90 kilometers ) per hour – and abandoning their su vs .
the mantra of “ opportunity found in crisis ” has been ut tered end lessly over the course of the deep water horizon disaster . but seizing that opportunity requires moving past blame , learning from mistakes , and identifying how best to achieve a sensible , long-term national energy policy .
if americans want a future without other deep water horiz on- style accidents and oil- tar red wildlife , they must reduce oil demand , in addition to ensuring that oil production is carried out responsibly and safely .
an answer to the russian challenge
berlin – for 19 years , the west ( america and europe ) has been putting off answering a critical strategic question : what role should post-soviet russia actually play globally and in the european order ?
should it be treated as a difficult partner or a strategic adversary ?
even when this choice became critically acute during the crisis of russia ’ s short war against georgia last summer , the west didn ’ t provide a conclusive answer to this question .
if you follow most east europeans , the united kingdom and the bush administration , the answer is “ strategic adversary . ”
but most west europeans prefer “ difficult partner . ”
these seemingly mutually exclusive alternatives have one thing in common : neither of them has been thought through to the end .
while russia is no longer the superpower it was in the soviet era , militarily it is still a great power , at least in europe and asia .
to address the numerous regional conflicts ( iran , middle east , afghan istan / pakistan , central asia , north korea ) and global challenges ( climate protection , disarmament , arms control , nuclear anti- proliferation , energy security ) that have high priority on the western agenda , cooperation with russia is necessary .
a strategic confrontation with moscow , i.e. , a new kind of “ mini- cold war , ” would undermine this agenda , or at least complicate its implementation significantly .
so the question is simply whether the threat emanating from russia is so grave that this kind of strategic re orientation on the part of the west is required ?
i believe it is not .
putin ’ s claim to great-power status and his great-power policies are structurally very vulnerable .
this is especially true at times where the price of oil has fallen below $ 40 per barrel .
and he knows that .
demograph ically , russia is in a dramatic n os e- di ve ; it remains economically and socially backward ; its infrastructure is underdeveloped , as are its investments in education and vocational training .
economically , it mainly relies on energy and commodity exports , and in its modernization efforts , it is largely dependent on the west , particularly europe .
due to its geopolitical position and its potential , however , russia will remain a permanent strategic factor in europe and asia that can not be ignored .
to integrate the country into a strategic partnership is therefore in the west ’ s interest .
but this would require a western policy based on long-term thinking and a self- confident and strong power position , because the kremlin will perceive any sign of division and weakness as encouragement to return to great russian power politics .
a few months ago , the russian government came up with a proposal to negotiate a new european order within the framework of the organization for security and cooperation in europe .
russia considers the agreements from the 1990 ’ s unjust , based as they were on its weakness at the time , and it wants to revise them .
moscow ’ s main strategic objective is the weakening or even rol l- back of nato as an ant- russian military alliance and the re- establishment of its east european and central asian zones of influence .
but putin is making a big mistake here , because all these aims are unacceptable for the west , and the kremlin still doesn ’ t seem to understand that the best and most effective guarantee of nato ’ s existence was , is , and will continue to be an aggressive russian foreign policy .
in the former mother country of marx ism - len inism , the leaders still don ’ t seem to understand dial ec tics .
after all , if russia ’ s government really wanted to achieve a change in the post-soviet status quo , it should , first and foremost , pursue a policy vis-à-vis its neighbors that reduces rather than increases fears .
but this applies similarly , if in reverse , to the west : on the one hand , the principles of a new europe as defined by the osce after 198 9/ 1990 don ’ t allow decisions about alliances to be subject to the veto of a large neighbor .
the same is true for free and secret elections and the in viol ability of borders .
on the other hand , the missile defense systems in poland and the czech republic , and the prospect of nato accession for georgia and ukraine , assume confrontation where this was not at all necessary .
the west should not reject russia ’ s wish for new negotiations on a european security system .
instead , it should be viewed as an opportunity finally to answer the key question of russia ’ s place within europe .
nato must play the central role here , because it is indispensable for the vast majority of europeans and for america .
the possible trade-off could be that the existing principles and institutions of the post-soviet european order , including nato , remain unchanged and are accepted and implemented by russia , which would get a significantly enhanced role within nato , including the perspective of full membership .
the peripheral nature of the nato- russia council was clearly not enough and did not work .
but why not think about transforming nato into a real european security system , including russia ?
the rules of the game would be changed and a whole variety of strategic goals could be achieved – european security , neighborhood conflicts , energy security , arms reduction , anti- proliferation , etc .
but it would transform russia even more .
if the west approaches these discussions with russia without illusions , with a clear understanding of its own strategic interests , and with new ideas for partnership and cooperation , the worst to be feared is failure .
of course , this approach presupposes two things that don ’ t exist at the moment : a common transatlantic approach to dealing with russia , and a european union that acts in much greater un ison and is therefore stronger .
nonetheless , the challenge posed by russia does not allow any further pro cr ast ination .
there is simply too much at stake .
the uses of nuclear ambitions
madrid – the agreement reached in geneva in the we e hours of november 24 between iran and the p5+1 ( the five permanent members of the united nations security council , plus germany ) on iran ’ s nuclear program proves a crucially important point : the sanctions regime worked .
the interim deal is iran ’ s first compromise on its nuclear program in more than a decade , and a diplomatic victory in a field long overshad owed by the looming cloud of military intervention .
yet the euphor ic reaction seen in some quarters is misplaced .
beyond the ambig u ities and limitations of the six- month agreement , the negotiations have clearly exposed iran ’ s nuclear-weapons program and , more broadly , its understanding that nuclear weapons remain a geostrategic status symbol .
this points to the difficulty of achieving a comprehensive agreement and the possibility that the international effort could result only in a series of small deals aimed at delaying iran ’ s acquisition of a nuclear weapon rather than removing the threat of it altogether .
beneath the headlines of the historic deal lies a limited and ambiguous agreement .
the joint statement released by european union high representative ca ther ine ash ton and iranian foreign minister j av ad zar if referred to the agreement as “ a joint plan of action ” that “ sets out an approach toward reaching a long-term comprehensive solution . ”
while it includes a first step that “ creates the time and environment needed for a comprehensive solution , ” the interim accord is really about confidence-building measures .
indeed , the obligations that it lists are referred to as “ voluntary measures . ”
at best , the agreement maintains the current status quo , and in some respects even allows for further development of iran ’ s nuclear program .
in this sense , perhaps the most troubling aspect of the interim deal concerns iran ’ s ye t- to- be - opened ar ak plant , which would offer a path to domestic plutonium production and weapon ization .
though the agreement reached in geneva includes iran ’ s pledge not to transfer fuel or heavy water or commission its ar ak reactor , there does not appear to be any overarching moratorium on construction at the site .
according to the international atomic energy agency , the ar ak plant still lacks several major reactor components , such as contro l- room equipment and cooling pum ps .
so , iran , it seems , will be able to advance its plutonium program during the six- month confidence-building period .
that loop hole is all the more troubling in light of french press reports this week concerning western intelligence on the construction of facilities in shir a z that may be used to separate plutonium in order to create the fis s ile material needed for nuclear weapons .
that iran ’ s push to acquire the capacity to produce nuclear weapons is partly motivated by security concerns can not be denied .
nationalism , however , is a more important factor .
it is not just that all the great powers have nuclear weapons ; the problem , from iran ’ s perspective , is that lesser powers – particularly neighboring states such as pakistan and israel – have them .
the iranians regard themselves as the heirs to a great and ancient civilization , and their ambition of achieving regional pre emin ence reflects this .
at the same time , they perceive their country to be marginalized , discrim inated against , and the target of aggressive international condemnation .
nearly 70 years after the bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki , the view persists globally that gaining a seat at the grow n up table of geopolitics requires nuclear weapons .
germany is an exception , though hardly a geostrategic heav y weight ; and though japan knows the horror of nuclear war , important domestic voices there are calling for a change of its non-nuclear status .
this view of nuclear weapons as a shor thand for national greatness is reinforced by the architecture of the non-proliferation regime , which firmly divides states into two camps : nuclear ha ves and ha ve- no ts .
as long as possessing nuclear weapons remains a state ’ s clearest way to demonstrate its bon a f ides as a great power , maintaining the potential to develop such weapons will be too tempting for countries like iran to for swe ar .
what is needed is a global shift away from the equation of nuclear weapons with geopolitical greatness .
progress on various efforts to se ver this link have not been very encouraging , as was recently demonstrated by the kremlin ’ s negative reaction to us president barack obama ’ s proposal that both sides cut their nuclear stockpiles .
meanwhile , non- p 5 nuclear-weapons states continue to expand their arsenals , with pakistan and india estimated to have nearly tripled their stockpiles during the past decade .
the interim agreement with iran marks an important juncture .
above all , it shows that international sanctions can bear fruit , and that a diplomatic way forward – even if proves to be a narrow one – is possible .
we can remain both ambitious and realistic .
but a comprehensive deal with iran – and the need to pre empt future epig ones – requires a broader change : a world that not only excludes the offensive use of nuclear weapons but also acknowledges the ultimate un sustainability of their deterrent power .
insecure europe
madrid – for the last five years , europe has been shaken by financial and economic conv ul sions that have wre aked havoc on many of its citizens ’ livelihoods .
the good news is that progress is finally being made in re developing the european union ’ s economic and monetary architecture , which should help to bring about a return to growth .
but eu leaders ’ focus on internal problems has caused them largely to neglect external policies , particularly in the area of security .
as 2014 begins , economic insecurity is giving way to worries about the eu ’ s strategic position .
there were expectations that the european council ’ s december meeting would signal a return to a more outw ard- looking approach , especially on security matters .
unfortunately , these hopes were quickly dashed .
indeed , the disparate ass or tment of initiatives that were agreed at the meeting , though interesting , lack the needed bread th and scope , and will have to be integrated within a weak and outdated strategic framework .
the flawed nature of the current european security strategy – drafted in 2003 , with a token revision in 2008 – reflects the circumstances surrounding its conception .
the ess was developed in the aftermath of the iraq war , amid heated debate over a proposed european constitution , in a ha sty and re active process hijacked by those who sought to position europe as a counterweight – or even a rival power – to the united states .
making matters worse , the geopolitical environment has changed fundamentally in the decade since the ess was ratified , owing to economic rebalancing toward asia , the upheavals in the arab world , the revival of russian assertiveness , and the rise of isolationist tendencies in the us .
as a result , the ess does not capture the reality of today ’ s world – a fact that is obvious from its opening declaration that “ europe has never been so prosperous . ”
to be sure , the ess ’ s three basic tenets – development assistance , soft power , and effective multilateralism – remain important .
but europe ’ s leaders must reconc e ive these concepts in light of today ’ s challenges .
in terms of development , europe must move away from the idea that aid should be used to bolster trade linkages and acknowledge the importance of foreign investment .
in fact , net private capital flows to developing countries now outweigh official development assistance by nearly ten to one worldwide .
as the world ’ s second-largest source of foreign direct investment , the eu wi elds considerable influence , with european investors bringing credibility to projects and regions , thereby serving to attract further investment .
for example , morocco ’ s ou ar z az ate solar power plant and its drinking water efficiency program were launched with € 37 million ( $ 5 0.6 million ) from the eu ’ s neighborhood investment facility ; these projects subsequently gained additional funding totaling more than € 600 million .
the ess ’ s emphasis on soft power is also in urgent need of re assessment .
the upsurge of protest across the arab world raised expectations among europeans that these countries would , to some extent , emulate western institutions , values , and norms .
but , while that did not occur , european principles certainly have not lost their allure , as recent protests in ukraine , triggered by president viktor yanukovych ’ s decision to sh un closer ties with europe , have shown .
with the rise of non-traditional threats , europeans are increasingly over looking classical security risks like inter- state warfare , believing that they are no longer relevant – a notion that is reflected in the ess .
but , as china ’ s increasingly assertive stance in the south and east china seas starkly demonstrates , this idea is not only wrong ; it can be very dangerous .
this brings us to the ess ’ s third ten et : advancing “ the development of a stronger international society , well-functioning international institutions , and a rule- based international order . ”
in this case , the problem comes down to a lack of commitment , with the eu choosing the convenience of informal and ad hoc groupings over the challenge of reforming key institutions like the united nations , the international monetary fund , and the world bank , which are essential for effective multilateralism .
indeed , the eu is among the leading actors in the current “ g ” f ad , which has culminated most recently in the g-20 .
and , despite being an em bodi ment of international law , the eu indul ges in soft- law approaches , whether at the recent cop - 19 climate-change meeting in warsaw , or by supporting the “ geneva agreement ” on iran ’ s nuclear program , which , it is now clear , is nothing more than two aspir ational declarations linked by a press release .
in developing its new security strategy , europe must consider america ’ s role as an essential component of the geopolitical environment , viewing the us not as a f oil , but as a nuanced partner .
beyond nato , which remains important even at a low eb b , the proposed transatlantic trade and investment partnership offers a potent opportunity to shape a rule- based international order .
the shine may have come off the eu , but the gr ipping scenes from kyiv ’ s ma id an square are a powerful reminder of the enduring appeal of europe ’ s core values .
what the eu needs now is an updated external strategy that capit alizes on this allure to bolster its influence , security , and prosperity , thereby halting its slide toward ir relevance .
russia and the silk road approach
madrid – the unraveling of ukraine has brought to the fore three major foreign policy challenges for the west : the danger of isolating russia , the conundrum of china ’ s alo of ness , and the pervasive lack of fresh ideas .
sur mounting them will require a concerted drive to enhance cooperation and build trust among countries with disparate political systems and national interests .
chinese president xi jinping ’ s silk road economic belt could contribute to such an effort .
europe and the united states ’ response to the crisis in ukraine has failed in two respects .
first and foremost , it has been anemic , projecting an image of weakness that undermines its ability to reverse russia ’ s annexation of crimea , which has been tac itly accepted , or counter its aggressive behavior toward eastern ukraine .
at the same time , the use of targeted sanctions and diplomatic s nu bs has contributed to russia ’ s international isolation , undercutting the long-term goal of building a functional relationship .
while it is critical for the west to stand by its principles , including by imposing b iting sanctions , pragmatism is equally important .
after all , a weak , isolated russia is far more dangerous than a strong , internationally integrated one .
and yet there can be no denying that the relationship with russia is now broken , with mutual trust having reached its lowest point since the collapse of the soviet union .
in this context , bringing russia back into the international fold will require the involvement of china .
but , for china , the ukraine issue is complex , owing to its interest in fostering closer ties with russia and , to some degree , the parallels with its own actions in places like tibet .
given this – and china ’ s general retic ence to assume a global leadership position – direct chinese engagement is likely to come only through targeted initiatives with concrete goals .
that is precisely what the silk road economic belt offers , as i had the opportunity to witness during a recent trip to beijing .
the initiative , launched last september , aims to improve the linkages between the asian and european markets , with concrete benefits for all 18 central asian and european countries along the route , including russia .
the project – which aims to foster shared prosperity through peop le- to- people exchanges , improved trade flows , and increased currency circulation – is precisely what the world needs if it is to avoid a return to the cold war divide or the balk anization of eastern europe .
after all , the best way to generate cooperation and trust is to ensure that it offers clear benefits to all parties involved .
though chinese officials have spoken broadly of enhancing exchanges of people , easing restrictions on the use of foreign currency , and reducing trade barriers , reviving and modernizing the ancient silk road also requires functioning infrastructure focused on inter oper ability and multi mod al connectivity .
consolidating a strong transport network of road , inner water ways , air , and sea would produce a casc ading effect while offering significant – and immediate – economic gains by helping to optimize supply chains .
today , fre ight transport from china to europe via rail takes less than half as long as shipping .
there is a danger , however , that china will pursue a bilateral approach , using the project to serve narrow foreign-policy interests .
though china may have the means to finance the large-scale infrastructure projects that the initiative demands , such a fragmented strategy would inhibit integration , while reinforcing the view that a rising china poses a threat to the international order .
china ’ s leaders should recognize that , if the silk road economic belt is to reach its potential , it must be based on a broader vision that includes diversity of financing , multipl icity of ownership , and effective organization involving a range of actors .
the world bank has recently endorsed just such a broad-based approach through its global infrastructure facility , which will connect multilateral , regional , and national public actors , as well as the private sector , in financing infrastructure development .
the g-20 , the de facto international agend a- set ter , has already expressed support for the project .
applying this comprehensive model to the silk road project – particularly by incorporating europe , china , russia , and multilateral institutions – would reinforce existing initiatives .
for example , it would strengthen the central asia regional economic cooperation program ’ s transport and trade facilitation strategy , which operates under the auspices of the asian development bank with contributions from the european bank of reconstruction and development .
but , beyond joint financing , effective coordination is crucial to such a project ’ s success .
this is where europe ’ s experience in compromise and harmonization is essential .
to improve its fragmented transport system , the european union designed a core corridors approach – corresponding to major trans- national traffic flows and addressing missing links and block ages – to form the basis for integration , inter oper ability , and coordinated infrastructure development and management .
in doing so , it serves as a catalyst for dialogue among disparate stakeholders .
the european rail traffic management system , which has overcome divergent safety and security standards among member states to create a unified system , is but one of the many successes that this innovative strategy has facilitated .
europe has demonstrated that a sense of common ownership , combined with concrete solutions , can encourage productive dialogue , opening the door to mutually beneficial cooperation .
the silk road offers more than economic opportunity ; it serves participants ’ long-term security interests .
at a time when so many connections have been broken , this is an opportunity that europe can not afford to pass up .
bringing iran in from the cold
madrid – rapprochement between iran and the west has long been a “ white wh ale ” of global politics .
but it increasingly appears that the world may be on the verge of a new era , characterized by a wary yet crucial collaboration between countries – particularly iran and the united states – that had been ir reconc il able since iran ’ s islamic revolution in 1979 .
the imperative for such cooperation drove last month ’ s ber g ed or f round table , organized by the k ö r ber foundation in conjunction with the institute for political and international studies .
at the event , which i attended , 30 politicians , senior officials , and experts from europe , the us , and iran considered the relationship ’ s future , producing some important insights that should inform future policy decisions .
with countries across the middle east crumbling and territorial sovereignty dis integrating – most notably in iraq – this effort could not be tim el ier .
to reverse the region ’ s slide into chaos , it needs strong stabilizing forces that can underpin coordinated action aimed at curtailing sectarian violence .
here , iran has a key role to play .
beyond its historical and cultural depth , which gives it a certain authority in the middle east , iran has one of the region ’ s few functioning governments capable of responding to geopolitical developments .
this is to say nothing of its massive oil reserves , which secure its critical role in the complex global energy equation , particularly as it applies to europe , which is working to reduce its dependence on russian energy imports .
the problem is that iran has consistently squandered its leadership potential , choosing instead to act as a spoil er , especially through the use of proxy armies .
this disruptive tendency reinforces the need for collaboration , underpinned by strong incentives for iran to maintain a constructive , moderate foreign policy .
to this end , the nuclear negotiations between iran and the e 3 + 3 ( france , germany , and the uk plus china , russia , and the us ) are an important first step .
though fragmentation and sectarian violence have recently become a more urgent danger , the risks associated with iran ’ s emergence as a nuclear power should not be underestimated .
further underlying the significance of the current talks are iran ’ s internal political dynamics .
if iranian president hassan rouhani is unable to offer citizens concrete economic returns on his engagement with the west – especially loos ened international sanctions – by next year ’ s parliamentary election , hardliners will recapture their dominance over iran ’ s foreign policy .
given this , the west has finally found in rouhani and iranian foreign minister j av ad zar if motivated – and ostensibly effective – interlocutors .
perhaps the most important motivation for the e 3 + 3 negotiations is that resolving iran ’ s nuclear status has become a s ine qu a non for bringing the country back into the fold of the international community .
iran can not play a stabilizing role in the middle east as a pariah state .
this is not to say that negotiators should pursue a deal at any cost .
a weak agreement that lacks adequate verification mechanisms and leaves iran with sufficient enrichment capacity for short-term weapon development would do more harm than good .
beyond stoking israeli security fears and fueling increased opposition from an already skeptical us congress , such a pact would strengthen the position of iran ’ s most obstruc tion ist elements , all but eliminating the possibility of constructive future engagement .
reaching an effective , fair agreement will undoubtedly be difficult ; but there is reason to believe that it is possible .
the current round of talks has produced some progress on one of the issue ’ s two major sticking points : the heavy- water reactor at ar ak .
the other key issue , centrifu ges , is more problematic .
but alternative metrics – for example , focusing on overall production volume , instead of the number of centrifu ges – together with robust monitoring guarantees , could facilitate an agreement .
with the nuclear issue resolved , western leaders could advance cooperation with iran in other critical areas – beginning with security and stability in the middle east .
of course , iran ’ s involvement in this effort , while important , would not be sufficient to stop the current carnage .
given the sectarian nature of regional conflicts – for which the iranian authorities bear a heavy responsibility – engagement with iran must be conducted within a broader framework of regional cooperation , in particular with the gulf states .
given that the us and europe have neither the appetite nor the where with al to respond effectively to the cat ac ly sm ic developments in the middle east , solutions will need to come , at least partly , from countries with strong influence on the ground .
but , in pursuing collaboration with countries like iran , western leaders must remain vigilant , and avoid allowing a sense of urgency to overwhelm their regard for these regimes ’ disruptive potential .
bearing in mind that cav eat , the potential benefits of western engagement with iran can not be overstated .
over the coming weeks , the us and the eu will have the opportunity to make important strides toward a more stable , secure middle east – an outcome that would benefit the entire world .
america ’ s strategic blindness
madrid – the re crimin ations over us spying activities , triggered by the revelations of the former american intelligence contractor edward j. snowden , have now reached fever pit ch .
questions abound – about what president barack obama knew and when , about the legitimacy of e av es dropping on friendly foreign leaders ’ conversations , about the future of transatlantic relations , and even about the meaning of the term “ ally . ”
but the current fi restor m , like other recent diplomatic crises for the united states , reflects a more fundamental problem : the lack of strategic vision in american foreign policy .
until the us is able to establish an overarching , purpos e- oriented framework through which it relates to the world , a re active approach is inevitable , with high- intensity incidents such as we have seen this month continuing to be the norm .
for more than 40 years , the cold war policy of containment of soviet influence provided america its strategic framework .
though us tactics were debated and shifted from administration to administration , the overarching approach remained consistent , because it was broadly supported by republicans and democrats alike .
of course , an overarching national-security strategy provided no guarantee against problems or even major disasters in countries like vietnam and nicaragua .
nonetheless , in hindsight , containment inf used an order and organization on us foreign policy that is absent today .
the us , ine br i ated by victory , saw in the triumph over the soviet bloc another sign of its exceptionalism , and found itself taken in by the mir age that its cold war success was itself a strategy .
what followed was a decade of scat ter shot foreign policy marked by notable cases of inaction , together with individual initiatives taken largely without reference to a broader doctrine .
unchallenged in the world ’ s unipolar moment , the us had the luxury of not knowing its strategic goals .
shocked by the attacks of september 11 , the us forced a new framework onto its still- un questioned belief in the inexor able movement of history toward freedom .
unfortunately , what emerged was a deeply flawed approach , not least because in declaring a “ war on terror , ” america positioned itself against a tactic , not an entity or an ideology .
under obama , the us has begun to de part from this approach .
the problem is that it remains a departure without any meaningful destination .
as in the 1990 ’ s , the us has no organizing imperative , and the result is the same : a combination of in activity and incoherent initiatives .
and , at a time of domestic political polarization , the lack of a global strategy denies a potential rallying point around which democrats and republicans can unite .
two decades ago , geopolitical conditions limited blow back from america ’ s foreign-policy vacuum .
today , the us remains the world ’ s essential power , but it is no longer the exclusive power .
it can not solve problems that directly affect it by acting on its own , though its leadership remains indispensable .
that is all the more true given that the nature of such problems has also changed .
america , like the rest of us , is vulnerable to climate change , pandemics , and terrorism – challenges that require coordinated global solutions .
for the us , however , the utility of multilateralism is purely situ ational .
above all , multilateralism is never preferable to a “ good ” bilateral solution – a view that has reinforced behavior that undermines , rather than strengthens , the capacity for effective international action .
indeed , always ready to negotiate treaties but rarely prepared to sign – and even less likely to ratify – them , the us remains absent from such key global agreements as the kyoto protocol , the mine ban treaty , and the un convention on the law of the sea .
its inspired creativity and support in building formal institutions like the united nations and world bank has given way to a pre dil ec tion for weak , informal , and ad hoc groupings , such as the various g- some things and “ coalitions of the willing . ”
establishing effective multilateralism requires an emphasis on rules and institutions that facilitate coordination .
the recent decision by the us to sign the arms trade treaty could be a good start – if only congress could marshal the bipartisan support needed to ratify it .
but scattered moves in the right direction will not suffice .
what is really needed is a change in vision and mentality – a shift from viewing multilateralism as a tactic to embracing it as a strategic imperative .
the current spying scandal is the product of a rud der less us foreign policy focused on narrowly drawn tactical objectives that exist outside the conceptual fun nel of a comprehensive vision .
the result in this case has been damage to the transatlantic relationship , with some in europe even calling for a halt to the talks on the proposed transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) .
su spending the trade talks would be folly , not just in terms of the regional impact , but also because the ttip should be an exercise in rule- making that echoes globally .
the current diplomatic crisis , too , is an opportunity to ensure that transatlantic discussions about privacy and surveillance reverber ate in a multilateral setting ; seizing it would represent a small but significant contribution to the strategic vision that has been sorely lacking for the last quarter-century .
europe ’ s juncker revolution
madrid – before his appointment as eu commission president , jean-claude juncker was pill or ied as an old- school federalist who would do little to alter the status quo .
but the new structure that he has imposed on the commission implies a radical overhaul of how things are done in brussels .
but individual commissioners are far less important than the trends that have caused the commission to shift its priorities from enlargement and the internal market toward energy and monetary union .
one such trend is europeans ’ growing skepticism toward integration , exemplified in may ’ s european parliament election .
with newer european union members backsliding – romania on the rule of law , bulgaria in corruption , and hungary on democratic norms under viktor orbán ’ s government – now is the time , or so it seems , to focus on existing members .
reinforcing this shift is turkey ’ s drift toward authoritarianism , which is undermining the viability of its candidacy for eu membership .
as for ukraine , recent gestures of solidarity , such as the signing of an association agreement , are unlikely to develop into anything substantial in the foreseeable future .
in downgrad ing eu enlargement as a formal policy priority , the commission is preparing itself to take other important steps .
the upheaval among europe ’ s southern and eastern neighbors may well bring about a long-overdue rev amping of the eu ’ s neighborhood policy .
and , in pursuit of other avenues for expanding the eu ’ s reach , european leaders might reinvigorate the european economic area .
another policy area that has lost its centrality is the internal market – a notable decision , given that it has been the centerpiece of the european project since the commission was created in 1958 .
the internal market ’ s four pillars – the free movement of goods , services , capital , and people – have underpinned broader eu measures , in areas like foreign policy and justice and home affairs , and will now be sub sum ed under new policy lab els , from economy and financial affairs to the digital agenda .
this move away from the internal market can be explained partly by member governments ’ aversion to more eu- level legislation .
though complaints about the “ bloated ” acqu is commun it aire ( the body of eu law ) are often unfounded , the eu legislative process is not without its shortcomings , as recent attempts at harmonization clearly demonstrate .
for example , for the eu-wide statutory audit that was completed in april , the european parliament agreed to a revised directive and new regulation that should have been directly applicable in all 28 member countries .
but , in more than 20 cases , member states were given discretion over its implementation and interpretation .
the new commission will attempt to change this by focusing on rule implementation and oversight , rather than creation .
this effort will be coordinated by representatives in seven newly established vice- presidential positions , and spearheaded by the first vice president to have a portfolio focused on “ better regulation . ”
to be sure , easing regulatory burdens is a longstanding le it mo ti f of the eu .
though the last two commissions , led by josé manuel barroso , espoused a commitment to ration alizing , clar ifying , and comp iling rules , little concrete action has been taken .
juncker ’ s changes , however , may port end genuine progress on this front , as well as toward monetary and energy union .
indeed , the new commission ’ s structure suggests that juncker hopes to enhance its role in guiding the european monetary union and related policies , control over which largely rested with the european council and eu member governments ( especially germany ) during the crisis .
similarly , a new vice president has been introduced for energy , which has been re framed as “ energy union . ”
the lack of progress on this front during the last two commissions was rooted mainly in germany ’ s russian modernization project , which has shaped its approach to energy security .
for its part , france has been reluctant to build an interconnected european grid , owing to its heavy reliance on nuclear energy .
given russian behavior in ukraine , however , eu leaders have been rethinking their approach .
in this context , the commission ’ s new structure – not to mention the fact that the new european council president , former polish prime minister donald tusk , has long sought an energy union – may well push the policy forward .
though it is impossible to understand fully the implications of the commission ’ s new structure at this early stage , some of its institutional ramifications are already emerging .
beyond inciting a kind of tu g- of- war with the european council , the commission ’ s shift away from law making will alter the european parliament ’ s role , which it has forged over the last five years on the back of the commission ’ s active legislative agenda .
with little authority to initiate legislation , the parliament , too , will have no choice but to pivot toward oversight .
precisely how all of this all plays out in the coming months and years will determine whether the european project progres ses or stagn ates .
africa beyond ebola
madrid – among this summer ’ s grave global worries , the spread of the ebola virus has monopol ized the discussion of sub-saharan africa and reinvigor ated ho ary notions of disorder and despair – at a time when a new image of a dynamic africa was emerging .
in fact , there is still strong reason for optimism about the region ’ s prospects .
the ebola outbreak overshad owed three key events affecting the region .
on july 1 , a major organizational restructuring at the world bank group was implemented .
two weeks later , the brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) announced the establishment of the new development bank .
and , in early august , african government and business leaders gathered in washington , dc , for a summit that could port end transformative private investment in africa .
such investment is essential in a world in which net private capital flows to developing countries out strip official development assistance by a margin of ten to one .
if this is to be a turning point for africa , rather than another false dawn , this summer must be the start of a prolonged effort to stimulate private-sector engagement .
the re organization of the world bank is a central part of a larger effort under its president , jim y ong kim , to re position the bank as a facilit ator vis- a- vis the private sector , rather than a primary provider .
from 2009 to 2013 , new investment commitments by the international finance corporation , the world bank ’ s private-sector lending arm , have risen 73 % .
meanwhile , the multilateral investment guarantee agency , the bank ’ s provider of political risk insurance covering investments in developing countries , has moved to expand its activities , both by broadening the types of projects that it supports and widening existing definitions to allow greater coverage .
july ’ s restructuring occurs within the context of these broader moves .
in re organizing the world bank group ’ s central component , the international bank for reconstruction and development , kim has adopted a manag em ent- consulting model that unites expertise with regional coverage .
seeking to eliminate the bureaucratic “ sil os ” that have isolated regional experts from one another , 14 global practice groups in areas such as energy , water , and education have been established to bring to bear the full force of the world bank ’ s considerable knowledge on projects and partnerships .
just as the world bank was re positioning itself , the brics agreed to establish their own bank .
there are significant outstanding issues about how the new development bank will operate , but early indications suggest that infrastructure will be central to its activities , with an emphasis on africa .
the world bank estimates that insufficient infrastructure reduces productivity in africa by approximately 40 % .
the entrance of a new player with initial authorized capital of $ 100 billion – along with the united states ’ power africa program , which has gar nered $ 26 billion in commitments since its launch last year , and the world bank ’ s new global infrastructure facility – promises to help ease infrastructure financing significantly .
but , as of now , the new development bank is little more than a statement of political solidarity , and whether it comes into existence remains to be seen .
even if it does begin to function , the brics lack what gives development banks , and the world bank in particular , legitimacy and weight : a staff composed mostly of dedicated experts who are among the world ’ s best .
finally , the high profile of the us- africa leaders summit , with more than 40 heads of state in attendance , as well as president barack obama ’ s direct involvement , generated bu z z about africa .
us businesses and investors certainly gained more awareness about africa ’ s potential and a deeper understanding of the variety of investment clim ates throughout the continent .
but , though the summit may be called a success , its long-term implications are unclear , particularly given the uncertainty about what will follow .
at the moment , there does not seem to be a plan to institution alize the summit .
moreover , the participation of so many heads of state overshad owed that of african business leaders .
the practical connections that us companies will need when deciding whether to invest could have been cultivated on the summit ’ s margins , or in its aftermath , but were not .
laying a foundation for future engagement requires ongoing commitment and effort that goes beyond mere publicity .
the same could be said about the world bank .
even if this transition occurs seam lessly , the bank faces a serious internal struggle against entrenched bureaucratic interests and a pervasive institutional mindset that is overly risk-averse and fix ates on processes rather than outcomes .
in recent years , africa , once a land of pity , has emerged as a land of opportunity .
if it is to become a land of performance , the goal must be to facilitate investment , both domestic and foreign .
that will demand effort and commitment ; given that a stable international order increasingly depends on a prosperous and growing africa , it is a goal that the world can not afford to miss .
europe ’ s iranian imperative
madrid – last month , with the world ’ s attention fixed on the crisis in crimea and the search for malaysian airlines flight 3 70 , the latest round of negotiations between iran and the p5+1 ( the united states , china , france , russia , and the united kingdom , plus germany ) passed quietly in vienna .
even with discussions set to continue next week , the talks ’ outcome remains far from certain – and world leaders can not afford to become distracted .
this is especially true for europe , whose unified approach to iran has been invaluable up to this point .
indeed , it was the bite of european sanctions that ultimately brought iran to the negotiating table , and the force of unified european diplomacy facilitated the “ joint plan of action , ” which set out the terms for reaching a comprehensive long-term agreement within six months .
but now , at the plan ’ s halfway point , there has been little concrete progress , with last month ’ s negotiations producing no headway on two key issues being discussed : the acceptable level for uranium enrichment in iran and the future of the heavy- water reactor at ar ak .
the sharp contrast between this lack of achievement and iran ’ s recent declarations about reaching a final deal by july raises important questions about iran ’ s strategy and goals – questions that negotiators must consider carefully when determining the best approach .
the key to success is the background against which the process plays out .
iran is a land of contrasts .
on a recent visit organized by the european council on foreign relations ( ec fr  ) , the coexistence of entrenched tradition and rapid transformation was starkly apparent .
central tehran – e bul li ent with young people and high- he eled women don ning testim on ial headscar ves and mid- th igh jac kets over p ants – embodies a thir st for openness .
more than 60 % of iranians were born after the 1979 islamic revolution , and more than 40 % were born after the iran- iraq war of the 1980 ’ s .
for them , the revolution is a part of history , not the main source of their personal values .
the toll taken by years of tough economic sanctions is also apparent .
despite iranian officials ’ best efforts to down play the sanctions ’ impact , it is difficult to spin inflation in excess of 30 % and projected gdp growth of just 1 % this year .
the combination of a young population and a crumbling economy is a combus tible mix , one that amounts to an existential threat to the regime – and the regime knows it .
in this sense , the imperative to reach a prosper ity- enhancing agreement with the international community is greater than ever for iran ’ s leadership .
furthermore , iran ’ s negotiating style , like its capital city , can be both fati gu ing and confusing .
just moments after elabor ating at length on the koran ’ s prohibition of nuclear weapons , an interlocu tor would declare that the underground for dow nuclear facility ’ s im pregn ability to airstrikes must be central to any deal .
the reality is that iran does not envis age giving up its nuclear breakout capacity .
the negotiations are aimed not at eradication , but at leng th ening lead - time – specifically , limiting uran ium- enrichment levels to 3.5 % , establishing a strong inspections regime , and reaching an agreement on the ar ak nuclear facility .
but even this may not happen .
after all , iranian officials have thus far not demonstrated their commitment to accepting stringent and verifiable checks .
moreover , iran has managed to separate the nuclear negotiations from broader , related issues like its ball istic - missile program , its support for groups like hezbollah , and its domestic human-rights record .
with the us lo ath to introduce potential spoil ers into the mix , there is no chance that any of these issues will be up for discussion .
this leaves iran the opening it needs to place a strategic bet that the syrian conflict will generate increasing friction between the west and iran ’ s regional arch rival , saudi arabia .
for iran , a staunch supporter of syrian president bashar al-assad ’ s regime , a weaker us- saudi relationship is key to shifting the regional balance of power – especially if it is accompanied by the easing of western economic sanctions .
to some degree , this hope is reinforced by iran ’ s perception of us president barack obama as a motivated partner in the nuclear talks .
after all , a long-term agreement would be both a sing ular foreign-policy achievement for obama and a boon to his efforts to dis entang le the us from the middle east .
but iran also recognizes that the clock is tic king .
obama ’ s presidency is coming to an end , the republicans are poised to regain control of the senate in november ’ s mid-term election , and democrats are increasingly retic ent to be viewed as “ soft on iran . ”
as a result , the us congress appears to be growing more hostile toward a deal ; indeed , the longer it takes to conclude a final agreement , the more likely congress is to sc upper it .
in this context , europe has a key role to play .
while europe ’ s reputation for foreign-policy “ sof tness ” continues to shape iranian perceptions , the eu ’ s role in compelling iran to negotiate underpins the current talks .
likewise , it was france ’ s insistence on more stringent controls that initially blocked the agreement in geneva last november .
a decade ago , europe disappointed iran by withdrawing from negotiations , under pressure from the us – a move that some have suggested aided former iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’ s rise to power .
today , europe will be critical to driving progress , particularly in the event that the us congress tor pe does a sensible agreement .
indeed , on iran , europe ’ s unified approach has enabled it to have a greater impact than on any other significant foreign-policy issue .
this should be regarded as a model for the future and a lesson for the present .
by preserving its unity of purpose and maintaining the pressure and negotiating momentum that it has generated , europe can demonstrate to iran , the us , and itself that it has what it takes to be a major global actor .
for sak en syria
madrid – in this year of ubiquitous commemor ations , the cent ennial of jan kar ski ’ s birth has been largely overlooked .
and yet kar ski ’ s legacy is more important than ever – nowhere more so than in syria .
as the geneva ii peace process slog s along – leaving cad a vers and atrocities to pile up – kar ski ’ s dedic ation to bringing the plight of poland ’ s jews to the world ’ s attention during world war ii , despite the inertia of governments and publics , embodies exactly what syria desperately needs .
in 194 2 , kar ski , a pol ish- born diplomat , traveled to the united kingdom to report on what came to be called the holocaust .
the next year , he embarked on a mission to the united states to brief president franklin d. roosevelt and other dign itar ies on the horrors that he had witnessed .
in both cases , he was met with skepticism and apathy .
indeed , it was only toward the end of the war that action was taken to stop the slaughter .
although the holocaust is a category of persecution su i gener is , one can not avoid thinking of kar ski in light of the international community ’ s approach to syria today .
expectations for the geneva talks are so low that trivial matters – such as the fact that president bashar al-assad ’ s negotiators and the opposition are sitting together in the same room ( though not at the same table ) – are being hailed as successes .
even the agreement to allow women and children to leave block aded areas of the city of hom s – an anti- assad strong hold – fell far short of international medi ators ’ vision ( and even this achievement seems to be in doubt ) .
instead of allowing a united nations aid con voy to bring humanitarian aid to the area , the government agreed to release women and children on an as- ye t- uncertain tim eline , while men can leave only after their names had been cleared , raising fears of arrest .
meanwhile , amid plo dding deliberations of incremental steps that are clearly inadequate , syrians are being displaced , wounded , tortured , and killed in droves .
by any measure , the level of suffering in syria is shocking .
but a year ago , the figures were already dire : 60,000 dead , 700,000 international refugees , and two million internally displaced .
if there were a threshold of misery that would cause the world to say , “ enough is enough , ” it surely would have been crossed by now .
the ugly truth is that the world ’ s response to this crisis has been shaped by geopolitical interests , not the need to put an end to appalling human suffering .
indeed , it is no secret that the conflict serves as a proxy for larger struggles – between saudi arabia and iran , saudi arabia and qatar , the us and iran , russia and the us , shia and sunni muslims , and moderates and extremists – and that resolving it will require significant effort on all of these fronts .
from an american perspective , syria is not strategically critical .
president barack obama ’ s administration has maintained an intens ely inward-looking focus , reinforced by a public wary of foreign eng ag ements .
nothing short of a drastic change in the conflict ’ s nature that threatened america ’ s core interests would lead to direct us involvement .
guilt , after all , is a poor motiv ator for international action .
even the uk and france – the only two countries that were not shy about threatening military action against assad ’ s regime – got cold feet when confronted with the possibility of going it alone .
instead , the world is responding to graphic images of un spe ak able brutality – torture by the regime or execu tions carried out by the opposition – with ster ile shows of outrage .
the stream of statements , half- measures , and cl um sy initiatives has done little to improve the situation – and , in some instances , has made things worse .
consider obama ’ s call , backed by no action , for assad to “ step aside , ” and his repeated promises , dating to early 2012 , to provide non- lethal aid to the syrian opposition – promises that were finally fulfilled late last year , and then only temporarily .
this gap between rhetoric and action left a vacuum ; saudi arabia , qatar , and private donors subsequently filled it by channeling support to extremist elements of the opposition , strengthening their hand at the expense of those being called moderates .
but the most infamous example of this policy paralysis was obama ’ s 2012 declaration that the use of chemical weapons was the “ red line ” beyond which the us would be forced to intervene .
his ultimate failure to follow through on his pro clam ation emboldened and , in a way , re- legitimized assad .
it remains to be seen whether geneva ii will follow this pattern .
the price of the talks has already been high , with all sides having ramp ed up violence to strengthen their respective positions ahead of the negotiations .
this is to say nothing of the fi asco surrounding the withdrawn invitation to iran , whose buy- in will be essential for any resolution .
in any case , the incremental nature of the talks bel ies the situation ’ s urgency .
amid the current focus on regime change , a transitional government , and negotiating deleg ations , there is a real danger that the desperate humanitarian situation will be overlooked .
here , citizens have a critical role to play .
but , like their leaders , publics everywhere have been retic ent to act .
indeed , opinion polls show that , despite near- universal awareness of the situation in syria , there is very little public support for intervention .
but hand wringing will not help ; we – individuals – must accept real responsibility for ending the tragedy and press our leaders to act .
it has been more than 70 years since kar ski presented his report to the world .
in that time , we have created the united nations , adopted the universal declaration of human rights , and discussed end lessly governments ’ “ responsibility to protect ” their citizens .
yet , watching the syrian tragedy develop , one might conclude that nothing has changed . how many times must we say , “ never again ” ?
a nation of vi di ots
new york – the past half-century has been the age of electronic mass media .
now an explosion of new media devices is joining the tv set : d v ds , computers , game box es , smart phones , and more .
a growing body of evidence suggests that this media proliferation has countless ill effects .
the united states led the world into the television age , and the implications can be seen most directly in america ’ s long love affair with what har lan ell ison memor ably called “ the glass te at . ”
in 1950 , fewer than 8 % of american households owned a tv ; by 1960 , 90 % had one .
that level of penetration took decades longer to achieve elsewhere , and the poorest countries are still not there .
true to form , americans became the greatest tv wat chers , which is probably still true today , even though the data are somewhat ske t ch y and incomplete .
the best evidence suggests that americans watch more than five hours per day of television on average – a staggering amount , given that several hours more are spent in front of other vide o- stre aming devices .
other countries lo g far fewer viewing hours .
in scandinavia , for example , time spent watching tv is roughly half the us average .
the consequences for american society are profound , troubling , and a warning to the world – though it probably comes far too late to be heeded .
first , heavy tv viewing brings little pleasure .
many surveys show that it is almost like an addiction , with a short-term benefit leading to long-term un happiness and remorse .
such viewers say that they would prefer to watch less than they do .
moreover , heavy tv viewing has contributed to social fragmentation .
time that used to be spent together in the community is now spent alone in front of the screen .
robert put nam , the leading scholar of america ’ s declining sense of community , has found that tv viewing is the central explanation of the decline of “ social capital , ” the trust that bin ds communities together .
americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago .
of course , many other factors are at work , but telev is i on- driven social atom ization should not be underst ated .
certainly , heavy tv viewing is bad for one ’ s physical and mental health .
americans lead the world in obesity , with roughly two-thirds of the us population now over weight .
again , many factors underlie this , including a diet of cheap , unhealthy fr ied foods , but the se d entary time spent in front of the tv is an important influence as well .
at the same time , what happens mentally is as important as what happens physically .
television and related media have been the greatest pur ve y ors and conve y ors of corporate and political propaganda in society .
america ’ s tv ownership is almost entirely in private hands , and owners make much of their money through relentless advertising .
effective advertising campaigns , appealing to unconscious urg es – typically related to food , sex , and status – create cr av ings for products and purchases that have little real value for consumers or society .
the same , of course , has happened to politics .
american politicians are now brand names , packaged like break fast cer eal .
anybody – and any idea – can be sold with a bright ri b bon and a catch y j ing le .
all roads to power in america lead through tv , and all access to tv depends on big money .
even war can be rolled out as a new product .
the bush administration promoted the premis es of the iraq war – saddam hussein ’ s non-existent weapons of mass destruction – in the familiar color ful , fast- pac ed , and graph ic s- heavy style of television advertising .
then the war itself began with the so-called “ shock and a we ” bombing of baghdad – a mad e- for- tv live spectacle aimed at ensuring high ratings for the us-led invasion .
many neurosci enti sts believe that the mental-health effects of tv viewing might run even deeper than addiction , consum er ism , loss of social trust , and political propaganda .
perhaps tv is rew iring heavy viewers ’ brains and impa iring their cognitive capacities .
the american academy of pedi at ric s recently warned that tv viewing by young children is dangerous for their brain development , and called on parents to keep children under two away from the tv and similar media .
a recent survey in the us by the organization common sense media reveals a paradox , but one that is perfectly understandable .
children in poor american households today not only watch more tv than children in wealthy households , but are also more likely to have a television in their room .
when a commodity ’ s consumption falls as income rises , economists call it an “ inferior ” good .
to be sure , the mass media can be useful as a provider of information , education , entertainment , and even political awareness .
but too much of it is confronting us with dangers that we need to avoid .
at the very least , we can minimize those dangers .
successful approaches around the world include limits on tv advertising , especially to young children ; non- commercial , public ly- owned tv networks like the bbc ; and free ( but limited ) tv time for political campaigns .
of course , the best defense is our own self- control .
we can all leave the tv off more hours per day and spend that time reading , talking with each other , and rebuilding the bases of personal health and social trust .
an atom y of a crisis
berkeley – getting out of our current financial mess requires understanding how we got into it in the first place .
the fundamental cause , according to the likes of john mccain , was greed and corruption on wall street .
though not one to deny the existence of such base motives , i would insist that the crisis has its roots in key policy decisions stretching back over decades .
in the united states , there were two key decisions .
the first , in the 1970 ’ s , dereg ulated commissions paid to stock brokers . the second , in the 1990 ’ s , removed the glass-steagall act ’ s restrictions on mix ing commercial and investment banking .
in the days of fixed commissions , investment banks could make a comfortable living boo king stock trades .
deregulation meant competition and thin ner margins . elimination of glass-steagall then allowed commercial banks to encro ach on the investment banks ’ other traditional preser ves .
in response , investment banks bran ched into new businesses like origin ating and distributing complex derivative securities .
they borrowed money and put it to work to sustain their profitability .
this gave rise to the first causes of the crisis : the origin ate- and- distribute model of securitization and the extensive use of leverage .
it is important to note that these were unintended consequences of basically sensible policy decisions .
other things being equal , deregulation allowed small investors to trade stocks more cheaply , which made them better off . but other things were not equal .
in particular , the fact that investment banks , which were propelled into riskier activities by these policy changes , were entirely outside the regulatory net was a recipe for disaster .
conglomerates allow financial institutions to diversify their business , and combining with commercial banks allows investment banks to fund their operations using relatively stable deposits instead of fickle money markets .
this model has proven its viability in europe over a period of centuries , and its advantages are evident in the us even now with bank of america ’ s purchase of mer r ill lyn ch .
but conglomer atization takes time .
in the short run , mer r ill , like the other investment banks , was allowed to double up its bets .
it remained entirely outside the pur view of the regulators .
as a stand - alone entity , it was then vulnerable to market swings .
a crisis sufficient to threaten the entire financial system was required to precipitate the inevitable conglomer atization .
the other element in the crisis was the set of policies that gave rise to global imbalances .
the bush administration cut taxes . the fed cut interest rates in response to the 2001 recession .
financial innovation , meanwhile , worked to make credit even cheaper and more widely available .
this , of course , is just the story of subprime mortgages in another gu ise .
the result was increased us spending and the descent of measured household savings into negative territory .
of equal importance were the rise of china and the decline of investment in asia following the 1997-1998 financial crisis .
with china saving nearly 50 % of its gnp , all that money had to go somewhere .
much of it went into us treasuries and the obligations of fannie mae and freddie mac .
this propped up the dollar and reduced the cost of borrowing for us households , encouraging them to live beyond their means . it also created a more bu oy ant market for the securities of freddie and fannie , feeding the origin ate- and- distribute machine .
again , these were not outright policy mistakes .
lifting a billion chinese out of poverty is arguably the single most important event in our life times .
the fact that the fed responded quickly prevented the 2001 recession from worsening .
but there were unintended consequences . the failure of us regulators to tighten capital and lending standards when abundant capital inflows combined with loose fed policies ign ited a furious credit boom .
the failure of china to move more quickly to encourage higher domestic spending commensurate with its higher incomes added fuel to the fire .
now , a bloated financial sector is being forced to retren ch .
some outcomes , like the marriage of bank of america and mer r ill lyn ch , are happier than others , like the bankruptcy of lehman brothers .
but , either way , there will be down si zing .
foreign central banks are suffering capital losses on their un thinking investments .
as they absorb their losses on us treasury and agency securities , capital flows toward the us will diminish .
the us current-account deficit and the asian surplus will shrink .
us households will have to start saving again .
the one anomaly is that the dollar has strengthened in recent weeks .
the dollar ’ s strength reflects the kne e- jer k reaction of investors rushing into us treasuries as a safe haven .
it is worth remembering that the same thing happened in august 2007 , when the sub-prime crisis erupted .
but once investors realized the extent of us financial problems , the rush into treasuries subsid ed , and the dollar resumed its decline .
now , as investors recall the extent of us financial problems , we will again see the dollar resume its decline .
emphasizing greed and corruption as causes of the crisis leads to a bleak pro gn osis .
we are not going to change human nature .
we can not make investors less greedy .
but an emphasis on policy decisions suggests a more optimistic outlook .
unintended consequences can not always be prevented .
policy mistakes may not always be avoidable .
but they at least can be corrected . that , however , requires first looking more deeply into the root causes of the problem .
an atom y of a financial meltdown
new york – a vicious circle is currently underway in the united states , and its reach could broaden to the global economy .
america ’ s financial crisis has triggered a severe credit crunch that is making the us recession worse , while the deepening recession is leading to larger losses in financial markets – thus undermining the wider economy .
there is now a serious risk of a systemic meltdown in us financial markets as huge credit and asset bubbles collapse .
the problem is no longer merely sub-prime mortgages , but rather a “ sub-prime ” financial system .
the housing recession – the worst in us history and worsening every day – will eventually see house prices fall by more than 20 % , with millions of americans losing their homes .
del inqu encies , defaults , and forec lo sures are now spreading from sub-prime to near- prime and prime mortgages .
thus , total losses on mortgage- related instruments – include ex otic credit derivatives such as collateralized debt obligations ( c dos ) – will add up to more than $ 400 billion .
moreover , commercial real estate is beginning to follow the downward trend in residential real estate .
after all , who wants to build offices , stores , and shopping centers in the empty ghost towns that lit ter the american west ?
in addition to the downturn in real estate , a broader bubble in consumer credit is now collapsing : as the us economy sli ps into recession , defaults on credit cards , auto loans , and student loans will increase sharply . us consumers are shop pe d- out , sav ing s- less , and debt- burdened .
with private consumption representing more than 70 % of aggregate us demand , cutbacks in household spending will deepen the recession .
we can also add to these financial risks the massive problems of bond insurers that guaranteed many of the risky securitization products such as c dos .
a very likely downgrade of these insurers ’ credit ratings will force banks and financial institutions that hold these risky assets to write them down , adding another $ 150 billion to the financial system ’ s mounting losses .
then there is the exposure of banks and other financial institutions to rising losses on loans that financed reckless leveraged buy- outs ( l bos ) .
with a worsening recession , many l bos that were loaded with too much debt and not enough equity will fail as firms with lower profits or higher losses become unable to service their loans .
given all this , the recession will lead to a sharp increase in corporate defaults , which had been very low over the last two years , averaging 0.6 % per year , compared to an historic average of 3.8 % .
during a typical recession , the default rate among corporations may rise to 10-15 % , threatening massive losses for those holding risky corporate bonds .
in that case , there will also be a serious risk that some firms that sold protection will go bankrupt , triggering further losses for buyers of protection when their counter parties can not pay .
on top of all this , there is a shadow financial system of non- bank financial institutions that , like banks , borrow short and liquid and lend to or invest in longer-term and illiquid assets .
this shadow system includes structured investment vehicles ( si vs ) , condu its , money market funds , hedge funds , and investment banks .
like banks , all these financial institutions are subject to liquidity or rol lo ver risk – the risk of going bel ly up if their creditors do not rol lo ver their short-term credit lines .
but , unlike banks , they do not have the safety net implied by central banks ’ role as lender of last resort .
now that a recession is underway , us and global stock markets are beginning to fall : in a typical us recession , the s & p 500 index falls by an average of 28 % as corporate revenues and profits sink .
losses in stock markets have a double effect : they reduce households ’ wealth and lead them to spend less ; and they cause massive losses to investors who borrowed to invest in stock , thus triggering margin calls and asset fire sales .
there is thus a broader risk that many leveraged investors in both equity and credit markets will be forced to sell illiquid assets in illiquid markets , leading to a casc ading fall in asset prices to below their fundamental values .
the ensuing losses will aggravate the financial turmoil and economic contraction .
indeed , adding up all these losses in financial markets , the sum will hit a staggering $ 1 trillion .
tighter credit rationing will then further hamper the ability of households and firms to borrow , spend , invest , and sustain economic growth .
the risk that a systemic financial crisis will drive a more pronounced us and global recession has quickly gone from being a theoretical possibility to becoming an increasingly plausible scenario .
an atom y of a revolution delayed
the ongoing conflict between iran ’ s rulers and the iranian public is the result of a head-on collision between two contradictory forces . in recent years , public attitudes in iran have become more liberal .
at the same time , power has shifted from conservative pragmatism toward a much more militant fundamentalism . the call by the most important group of iran ’ s clerics for the election results to be thrown out is but the latest sign of the fight back of both the reformist and pragmatic conservative factions .
thirty years after the islamic revolution , iranians are growing demonstr ably less religious and more liberal .
two face-to- face surveys of more than 2,500 iranian adults , conducted in 2000 and 2005 , clearly show the trend .
the percentage of those who “ strongly agree ” that democracy is the best form of government increased from 20 % to 31 % .
similarly , on a number of questions concerning gender equality – including political leadership , equal access to higher education , and wif ely obedi ence – the numbers continued a downward trend .
those who considered love as the basis for marriage increased from 49 % to 69 % , while those who depended on parental approval fell from 41 % to 24 % .
in 2005 , a much higher percentage than in 2000 defined themselves as “ iranian , above all ” rather than “ muslim , above all . ”
this trend is not hard to understand .
the imposition of a mon ol ith ic religious discourse on society has made liberal values attractive to iranians .
but , while this was reflected in reformist trends in the country ’ s wider political life , a movement toward militant fundamentalism took shape within the regime ’ s power structure .
reform-minded politicians were partly to blame for this change .
far from opposing absolu ti st power as an impediment to religious democracy , they tried to persuade the supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , of the value of reform .
but khamenei had no interest in reform , as he made plain in dismantling the reform movement .
the presidency of mohammad khatami , an av owed reformer , who served eight years , beginning in 1997 , convinced the supreme leader that his authority would be assured only if the presidency was held by a subservi ent fundamentalist such as the current president , mahmoud ahmadinejad .
in this , khamenei was following the lead of the late shah , who kept am ir abbas ho ve y da , a loyal re tain er , as prime minister from 1965 until the shah was overthrown in 1979 .
his populist rhetoric and religious fundamentalism have alienated a large section of conserv ative- pragm atist clerics and their supporters .
many members of this group honor the institution of private property , and ahmadinejad ’ s talk of redistribu ting wealth is not to their li king .
more disturbing to them is his apocalyptic conviction regarding the imminent advent of the hidden im am , the mah di , whose appearance is believed to lead to the destruction of the world and the end of time .
generally , ahmadinejad begins his public speeches with pr ay ers for the mah di ’ s immediate return .
for the shia religious hierarchy , long accustomed to releg ating the advent of the mah di to a distant future , ahmadinejad ’ s insist ent millen ari anism is troubl esome .
they have often dismissed as unorthodox , if not here tical , any claim of personal contact with the im am or speculation about his arrival .
several ayat oll ah s op ined that such talk about the mah di is un becoming of a president or , worse , indic ative of an unstable leader .
these concerns were reflected in the fact that the society of combat ant cler g y , a conservative body , was unable to endorse ahmadinejad ’ s candidacy .
defiance of the supreme leader by millions of iranians just a day after he firmly endorsed ahmadinejad threw the country into a political crisis .
worldwide broad casts of the beating and killing of protesters have undermined the regime ’ s religious credentials .
seeking a way out of this difficult situation , the supreme leader declared that the electoral disputes must be settled in through legal channels , not on the street .
given his role in justifying electoral fraud , this argument seems like an effort to buy time to clear the streets of demonstrators , put opposition leaders under severe physical and psychological stress , and isolate mir hos sein mous avi , the presumed winner of the real vote .
nonetheless , khamenei ’ s inv oc ation of the law echoes the demands of many conserv ative- pragm ati sts who lean toward mous avi , who is not in a position to challenge khamenei ’ s authority directly .
mous avi must carefully continue his legal campaign , without compromising the trust he has gained from the majority of iranians .
he must stand by his two principal demands : n ul lification of the election and establishment of an impartial committee to rule on the government ’ s violations of the electoral law .
should mous avi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’ s hold on power will be shaken .
if khamenei holds fast , mous avi can not gain the presidency , but he will continue to represent the hopes of the majority of iranians who differ dramatically with their government .
for now , what will happen depends on mous avi ’ s per sever ance .
an atom y of that cher ism
london – thirty years ago this month , margaret thatcher came to power . although precip itated by local conditions , the thatcher ( or more broadly the that ch er- reagan ) revolution became an instantly recogn iz able global brand for a set of ideas that inspired policies to free markets from government interference .
three decades later , the world is in a slump , and many people attribute the global crisis to these very ideas .
indeed , even beyond the political left , the anglo- american model of capitalism is deemed to have failed .
it is held cul pable for the near financial meltdown .
but 30 years of hindsight enable us to judge which elements of the thatcher revolution should be preserved , and which should be am ended in the light of today ’ s global economic downturn .
most obviously in need of amendment is the view that minim ally managed and regulated markets are both more stable and more dynamic than those subject to extensive government intervention .
the that cher ite assumption , in other words , was that government failure is far more men ac ing to prosperity than market failure .
this was always bad history .
the record shows that the period 195 0- 1973 , when government intervention in market economies was at its peace time height , was uniquely successful economically , with no global recessions and faster rates of gdp growth – and growth of gdp per capita – than in any comparable period before or since .
one can argue that economic performance would have been even better with less government intervention .
all we have are comparisons between what happened at different times .
what these comparisons show is that markets plus government have done better than markets minus government .
nevertheless , by the 1970 ’ s the pre- thatcher political economy was in crisis . the most notorious symptom of this was the emergence of “ stagflation ” – simultaneously rising inflation and unemployment .
something had gone wrong with the system of economic management be que ath ed by john maynard keynes .
in addition , government spending was on the rise , labor unions were becoming more militant , policies to control pay kept breaking down , and profit expectations were falling .
it seemed to many as though government ’ s reach had come to exceed its grasp , and that either its grasp had to be strengthened or its reach had to be reduced .
that cher ism emerged as the most plausible alternative to state socialism .
nig el law son was thatcher ’ s second chancellor of the exchequer , or finance minister .
out of the government ’ s anti- inflationary efforts emerged the “ law son doctrine , ” first stated in 1984 and broadly accepted by governments and central banks ever since .
“ the conquest of inflation , ” law son said , “ should ... be the objective of macroeconomic policy .
and the creation of conditions conducive to growth and employment should be ... the objective of microeconomic policy . ”
this proposition over turned the previous keynesian orthodoxy that macroeconomic policy should aim at full employment , with the control of inflation left to wage policy .
yet , despite all the “ supply side ” reforms introduced by that cher ite governments , unemployment has been much higher since 1980 than in the 1950 ’ s and 1960 ’ s – 7. 4 % on average in the united kingdom , compared to 1.6 % in the earlier decades .
what about inflation targeting ?
here , too , the record since 1980 has been patch y , despite the huge deflationary pressure exer ted by low-wage competition from asia .
inflation in 195 0- 1973 and 198 0- 2007 was about the same – just over 3 % – while inflation targeting has failed to prevent a succession of asset bubbles that have brought recessions in their wake .
nor has that cher ite policy succeeded in one of its chief aims – to reduce the share of government spending in national income .
the most one can say is that it halted the rise for a time .
now public spending is on the increase again , and record peace time deficits of 10 % or more of gdp stretch ahead for years .
in de- regulating financial markets worldwide , the that ch er- reagan revolution brought about the corruption of money , without improving on the previous growth of wealth – except for the very wealthy .
the average world citizen would have been 20 % richer had world gdp per capita grown at the same rate between 1980 and 2007 as it did between 1950 and 1973 – and this despite china ’ s high growth rates in the past 20 years .
furthermore , in unleashing the power of money , the that cher ites , for all their mor alizing , contributed to the moral decay of the west .
against these formidable min uses are three pl uses .
the first is privatization .
by returning most state-owned industries to private ownership , the thatcher revolution killed off state socialism .
the british privatization program ’ s greatest influence was in the former communist states , to which it gave the ideas and techniques needed to dismantle grossly inefficient command economies .
this gain must be preserved in the face of the current clam or to “ nation alize ” banks .
that cher ism ’ s second success was to weaken trade unions .
set up to protect the weak against the strong , labor unions had become , by the 1970 ’ s , enemies of economic progress , a massive force of social conservatism .
finally , that cher ism put paid to the policy of fixing prices and wages by central di k tat or by tri parti te “ barg ains ” between governments , employers , and trade unions .
these were the methods of fascism and communism , and they would , in the end , have destroyed not just economic , but political , liberty .
political pend ul ums often swing too far .
in rebuilding the shattered post- that cher ite economy , we should be careful not to revive the failed policies of the past . i still find fruit ful keynes ’ s distinction between the agenda and the non- agenda of politics .
as long as central government takes responsibility for maintaining a high and stable level of employment , keynes thought , most of the rest of economic life can be left free of official interference .
building a proper division of responsibility between state and market from this insight is today ’ s main task .
an autumn abyss ?
berlin – in the coming months , several serious regional economic and political crises could combine into one mega- watershed , fueling an intense global upheaval .
in the course of the summer , the prospect of a perilous fall has become only more likely .
the drums of war are being ban ged ever more loudly in the middle east .
no one can predict the direction in which egypt ’ s sunni islamist president and parliamentary majority will lead the country .
but one thing is clear : the sunni islamists are decisively altering the region ’ s politics .
this regional re- alignment need not be necessarily anti-western , but it surely will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily .
meanwhile , civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe .
to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’ s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight until the end .
syria ’ s balk anization among the country ’ s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clearly predictable result .
indeed , a bos ni a- type scenario can no longer be excluded , while the prospect of the syrian government ’ s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
moreover , the syrian civil war has become a proxy in an openly declared battle for regional hegemony between iran on one side and saudi arabia , qatar , turkey , and the us on the other .
staying on the sidelines of this arab- western coalition , israel is playing its cards close to its chest .
iran , for its part , has proclaimed syria an indispensable ally , and is determined to prevent regime change there by all available means .
does that mean that hezbollah ’ s militias in neighboring lebanon will now become directly involved in syria ’ s civil war ?
would such intervention revive lebanon ’ s own long civil war of the 1970 ’ s and 1980 ’ s ?
is there a threat of a new arab-israeli war hanging over the middle east ?
and , as kurds inside and outside of syria grow more assertive , turkey , with its large and long- restive kurdish population , is also growing restive .
at the same time , the regional struggle currently playing out in syria is becoming increasingly entang led with the other major source of war sounds : iran ’ s nuclear program .
indeed , parallel to the syrian drama , the rhetoric in the confrontation between israel and iran over the program has become dramatically harsh er .
both sides have maneu vered themselves into a dead - end .
if iran gives in and agrees to a sustainable diplomatic solution , the regime will lose face on a critical domestic issue , jeopardizing its legitimacy and survival .
from the regime ’ s point of view , the legacy of the 1979 islamic revolution is at stake .
everything points to the regime ’ s need for success – now more than ever – concerning its nuclear program .
similarly , israel ’ s government has backed itself into a domestic policy trap of its own .
prime minister binyamin netanyahu and defense minister ehud barak can not accept a nuclear-armed iran .
they do not fear a nuclear attack against israel , but rather a nuclear arms race in the region and a dramatic shift in power to israel ’ s disadvantage .
from their point of view , israel must either convince the us to attack iran and its nuclear plants or take on the maximum risk of using its own military forces to do so .
both sides have substantially reduced their options , thereby limiting the possibility of a diplomatic compromise .
and that means that both sides have stopped thinking through the consequences of their actions .
everywhere there is talk of a “ military option , ” which means air strikes .
but , while advocates speak of a limited “ surgical operation , ” what they are really talking about is the start of two wars : an aerial war , led by the us and israel , and an asymmetric war , led by iran and its allies .
and what if this “ military option ” fails ?
what if iran becomes a nuclear power , the region ’ s democratic movements are swept away by a wave of anti-western islamic solidarity , and the iranian regime emerges even stronger ?
iran , too , evidently has not thought its position through to its logical conclusion .
what does it stand to gain from nuclear status if it comes at the cost of regional isolation and harsh united nations sanctions for the foreseeable future ?
and what if it triggers a regional nuclear arms race ?
a war in the persian gulf – still the world ’ s gas station – would affect oil exports for some time , and energy prices would sky rocket , dealing a severe blow to a global economy that is tee tering on the brink of recession .
china , already in economic trouble , would be hit hardest , along with the whole of east asia .
with the us also economically weakened and facing a presidential election , america ’ s leadership ability would be seriously con stric ted .
and could a weakened europe cope with an oil shock at all ? a regional and global security shock caused by asymmetric warfare could add still further to the world economy ’ s troubles , causing exports to slump even more .
resp ice fin em !
( “ consider the end ” ) , the roman s used to say .
world leaders need to take this tim eless wisdom to heart .
and that applies doub ly to europeans .
it would be absurd if we had to suffer a real catastrophe again in order to understand what european integration has always been about .
nato ’ s new frontier
brussels – last week , an american ship sa iled into a spanish naval base , making history .
the arrival of the us s donald cook from nor fol k , virginia , to its new home port in ro ta , on spain ’ s atlantic coast , marks the first time that a us navy ship equipped with the high-tech a eg is ballistic missile-defense system will be permanently based in europe .
the us s donald cook is the first of four us navy destro yers that , with around 1, 200 sa il ors and personnel , will play a central role in nato ’ s missile-defense capability .
but the ships will carry out many other tasks as well , such as maritime security operations , bilateral and multilateral training exercises , and participation in nato operations and deployments , including the standing nato maritime groups .
the arrival of the us s donald cook marks a step forward for nato , for european security , and for transatlantic cooperation .
steady progress has been made since november 2010 , when , at its lisbon summit , nato decided to develop a missile-defense capability to protect all nato european populations , territory , and forces .
in april 2012 , at its summit in chicago , nato announced an interim capability as an oper ati onally significant first step .
full capability is expected to be attained in the years ahead .
the purpose of nato ’ s missile-defense system is to defend europe against a real threat .
at least 30 countries around the world either have ballistic missiles or are trying to acquire them .
the know-how needed to build them is spreading , and their range is increasing , with some from outside the euro-atlantic region already capable of targeting european cities .
the us s donald cook and the three other us destro yers have advanced sen sor capabilities and inter cep tors that can detect and shoot down ballistic missiles directed at europe .
in the future , other important components of the missile-defense system will include additional rad ars , sen sors , and inter cep tors – and more ships .
already , thanks to the us european phased adaptive approach to missile defense , nato can rely on a powerful radar based in turkey .
work has already begun on construction of a land -based inter cep tor and radar site in romania .
poland has announced plans to build up its air and missile-defense capabilities .
the netherlands is upgrading four radar frig ates to make them capable of missile defense , and has offered its patri ot anti- missile systems .
so has germany .
the netherlands , germany , and the us have already deployed patri ot missiles on nato ’ s sou theastern border to help defend and protect turkey from possible missile attacks from syria .
and , by hosting the four us navy destro yers , spain is making a vital contribution not just to nato ’ s missile defense , but also to security throughout the mediterranean region .
to link all of these national assets together , nato has developed , and is expanding , a technologically advanced comman d- and- control system , based at ram stein air base in germany .
the system already can connect satellites , rad ars , and inter cep tors to defend against missile attacks , and that capability will grow more complex and ag ile in the years ahead .
this makes nato unique : it is the only multilateral organization that can combine the most complex systems from the world ’ s most capable countries to create an effective whole .
above all , this deployment is a step forward for transatlantic cooperation , because the us ships represent more than a military capability .
each one is an eight- thous and- ton reminder of america ’ s commitment to security in europe .
at the same time , nato ’ s missile defense demonstrates european allies ’ commitment to security as they develop their capabilities in this area .
i encourage all allies to consider how they can contribute further to a system that will defend all of us in europe .
missile defense heral ds a new form of cooperation , with new capabilities against new threats .
where once we lined up tanks along borders , we are now building a complex system that requires a range of high-tech contributions from many allies – on land , at sea , and in the air .
nato ’ s missile-defense system is what transatlantic te am work looks like in the twenty-first century .
antar c tica ’ s point of no return
pot s dam – recent satellite observations have confirmed the accuracy of two independent computer simul ations that show that the west antarctic ice sheet has now entered a state of unstoppable collapse .
the planet has entered a new era of irreversible consequences from climate change .
the only question now is whether we will do enough to prevent similar developments elsewhere .
it is inevitable that the warmer the world gets , the greater the risk that other parts of the antarctic will reach a similar tipping point ; in fact , we now know that the wil kes basin in east antar c tica , as big or even bigger than the ice sheet in the west , could be similarly vulnerable .
there are not many human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia in advance .
the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels , and its impact on rising sea levels , is another .
indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report stated , in un character istically strong terms , that the sea level is “ virtually certain ” to continue to rise in the coming centuries or millennia .
moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the seas will rise .
but the recent revelations about antar c tica are different .
rather than reacting to global warming with gradual and predictable patterns of change , the west antarctic ice sheet has suddenly “ tipped ” into a new state .
a relatively small amount of melting beneath the am und sen sea ’ s ice shelf has pushed its gr ounding line to the top of a sub- glac ial hill , from which it is now “ rolling down . ”
simply put , one ther mal kick was enough to initiate an internal dynamic that will now continue under its own momentum , regardless of any action that humans might take to prevent it .
it is not completely clear whether humans have caused this tipping – though nothing like it has ever occurred during the 1 1, 5 00- year holoc ene period before humans started interfer ing with the planet ’ s energy balance .
but that is not the point .
what is important is that we recognize the existence of gigantic parts of the earth ’ s climate system – such as west antar c tica ’ s three- quad r illi on- ton ice sheet – that can be tipped when a frac tional temperature rise occurs in key locations .
this risk is no longer merely theoretical .
for the first time , findings based on observations and computer simul ations all point to the same conclusion : the huge am und sen sea sector of west antar c tica has begun an irreversible ice dis charge , and nothing can now halt the subsequent dra in age of the entire basin .
it has passed the point of no return .
that is why we must now focus on similar top o graphic conditions elsewhere .
if an “ ice plug ” near the coast of wil kes basin mel ts or breaks off into ice ber gs , the basin ’ s huge quantities of water will drain into the ocean .
although no one knows precisely what might destabilize the wil kes basin , we can be fairly certain that further global warming , caused by greenhouse-gas emissions , will increase the risk .
the fact that sea levels will continue to rise is now clear .
but we can still determine how high and how fast levels rise by controlling the degree of global warming that we cause .
climate change is caused by mankind , so the good news is that mankind can stop it by cutting greenhouse-gas emissions .
although west antar c tica ’ s fate is sealed , we may still be able to prevent the collapse of east antar c tica ’ s marine ice sheet .
that means deciding – sooner rather than later – which path to follow .
the current path risks further destabilization in antar c tica ; choosing the alternative path of a new energy system for the planet is our last best hope .
reviving ukraine ’ s economy
washington , dc – ukraine has suddenly arrived at a democratic breakthrough .
after former president viktor yanukovych incited major bloodshed , many of his mps def ected to the opposition , creating a large majority .
in order to consolidate its authority , whatever new government emerges will need to act fast and resol utely – and receive considerable international support – to overhaul the country ’ s crisis- ridden economy .
ukraine suffers from three large economic problems .
its current-account deficit last year was an estimated 8.3 % of gdp , and its foreign-currency reserves are quickly being depleted , covering just over two months of imports .
second , public finances are also unsustainable , with the budget deficit reaching almost 8 % of gdp and government- bond yields skyrocketing .
third , the economy has been in recession for five quarters since mid- 2012 .
these problems reflect yanukovych ’ s economic policy , which had one aim : enriching him , his family , and a few of his cronies .
during the last four years , ukraine has experienced unprecedented embe zz lement by its rulers , with estimates putting the yanukovych family ’ s wealth at $ 12 billion .
here , too , the new government will need international assistance if it is to recover at least some of this loo t .
with yanukovych out of the way , official ex tor tion of ukrainian business should end , enabling the economy to recover .
in fact , ukraine ’ s gdp actually grew by 3.3 % in the last quarter of 2013 , because his cronyism was stifled by the protests .
yet much can and must be done very quickly , because ukraine is running out of money .
for starters , the new parliamentary majority needs to appoint a new government , so that a fresh economic-policy agenda can be launched .
a new central bank governor also should be named , with the first order of business being to float the exchange rate .
this would lead to a substantial devaluation of perhaps 10 % , thereby ending the current run on the hr y v nia , eliminating the current-account deficit , and enabling a reduction in ukraine ’ s extremely high interest rates , which would stimulate investment .
as soon as a government has been appointed , the international monetary fund should send a mission to ukraine .
within two weeks , the imf mission could conclude a new financial stabilization program with the new administration .
the imf works fast and could make a first large disbur sement in late march .
the imf could lend ukraine $ 10- 12 billion for a one- year stabilization program , with the european union using $ 3- 5 billion from its balance-of-payments facility to co- finance an imf stand by program .
these two sources alone could cover much of the $ 35 billion in external financing that y uri y kol o bo v , ukraine ’ s acting finance minister , has said the country could need over the next two years .
moreover , imf loans carry a lower interest rate and a longer maturity than the russian loans on which the yanukovych government relied ( and which are unlikely to continue ) .
the conditions that the imf places on its loans can help ukraine undo yanukovych ’ s ven al policies .
first and foremost , ukraine will have to reduce its budget deficit sharply , which , given large tax revenues , should be accomplished through expenditure cuts and fre ez es .
large industrial subsidies – for example , to the coal industry – amount to nothing but giv e a ways to yanukovych ’ s supporters and should be eliminated immediately .
likewise , gas prices should be liberalized to stop corrupt enrichment from regulatory arbitrage .
ne edy consumers , not wealthy producers , should receive assistance .
similarly , the imf will insist on the re introduction of competitive t enders .
since 2010 , orderly public procurement has ceased , with yanukovych simply d oling out state contracts to friends and ac ol y tes at twice the market price .
naturally , sales of state enterprises to loy alists – typically at rock-bottom prices – must end as well .
another source of corruption has been re funds of value-added tax for exporters , for which top tax officials charge a commission .
putting a stop to this would stimulate exports .
in addition , ukraine should re introduce the sim pli fied tax code for small businesses that yanukovych abolished .
ukraine also needs to work with the eu .
within a week , the new government can fulfill the eu ’ s conditions for signing the long- concluded association agreement , and doing so should be on the agenda at the eu- ukraine summit in march .
parliament has already scheduled new elections , and former prime minister y uli ya tymoshenko has been released from prison .
the only remaining eu condition – legislation reforming the prosecutor ’ s office – can be adopted quickly .
the eu- ukraine association agreement will greatly benefit ukraine .
it amounts to a comprehensive reform program for the ukrainian state apparatus , including its law-enforcement bodies .
six ty state agencies in various eu countries have already concluded agreements with their ukrainian counterparts concerning the necessary reforms .
the agreement also contains a deep and comprehensive free trade area , which will open the vast european market to ukrainian exporters – and thus attract more foreign direct investment to ukraine .
this will also help to safeguard the country against possible russian trade sanctions .
here , diplomacy will play an important role as well .
the united states and the eu need to persuade russian president vladimir putin to reach an understanding with ukraine ’ s new leaders , rather than follow through on his threat to impose sanctions .
peaceful co- existence , not mounting bilateral tension , is in both countries ’ best interest .
and free flows the n ile
new delhi – for 18 days , during the eb b and flow of protest , it did not seem possible that the end of the egyptian revolution would come so suddenly , in a ter se announcement that lasted no more than a half- minute : “ president hosni mubarak has relinqu ished offic e … . ”
with that , am id st ro ars of victory , an era was ended , reaffir ming the old saying that “ the gra ve y ards of the world are full of those who considered themselves indispensable to their nations . ”
in the days and weeks ahead , there could arise occasions when the news from cairo is not up lifting , but let us never forget that egypt has taken a giant step , which in reality is a giant step for all arabs .
after all , egypt is the heart , brain , and nerve center of the arab world .
true , it once spawned the radical muslim brotherhood , but it also gave birth to islamic socialism and anti- colonialism , arab unity , and now a democratic affirm ation of the people ’ s will .
pernicious talk that arabs do not want democracy has been exposed as the big lie it is .
egypt , in the great beng ali poet rab in dr an ath t ag ore ’ s memor able words , is the land “ where the head is ( now ) held high and the mind is ( now ) without fear … ” the consequences will be vast .
ancient arab lands are b esti r red .
decades- old , apparently im mov able autocracies are finding their hold on power un hing ed ; change is invading their static envir ons .
yesterday ’ s treaties , particularly those with the united states and israel , will no longer inspire the same type of confidence they have long had as instruments of state policy .
memory of these 18 days is so crowded that it is difficult to separate one event from another , one phase from the next : the dramatic , the moving , the bizarre , and the un real from the ba thetic .
but the thre ad that united all , the theme that remained un err ingly constant , was the yearning for “ change ” – immediate , real , and tangible , not a promise or a tant alizing , un reach able mir age .
will this yearning travel beyond the n ile , as it did from tun is to cairo ?
this question ha un ts other arab port als of power .
and not just arab ; globally , foreign policies are being hur ri edly – and somewhat conf us edly – revised and re written .
this is why us policy os c ill ated so dis concer tingly from secretary of state hillary clinton ’ s “ do not rush the pace or else the pro-democracy movement could well be hijacked ” to president barack obama ’ s emph atic call for “ change now . ”
but , then , military rule is only a temporary measure , or so we reason .
the great tunisian poet ab ul - q asi m al shab i has captured po ign antly the spirit of egypt ’ s saga : “ if one day the people want life , then fate will aris e … night fade away , chains bro ken … ” that , in essence , is what the young in egypt have done .
their idi om is current ; their instruments of change are today ’ s electronic media .
they – and we – are very far from the world that mubarak , or the great gamal abdel nasser , knew and understood .
the egyptian revolution now faces the exac ting task that confronts all successful revolutions : how to define the future .
like the ottoman empire ’ s fragmentation in 19 22 or nasser ’ s overthrow of king far ou k ’ s regime in 195 2 , the current transformation , too , must be shaped .
and how that future is shaped will determine whether or not mubarak ’ s end marks the beginning of political transformation throughout the middle east .
that is the possibility that is shaking governments from washington to beijing .
it is not just the reliability of the su ez canal and oil exports that are now in doubt ; decades of fixed strategic certainties must now be re examined .
consider israel , which has watched the events in cairo with a degree of worry un felt since january 1979 , when ayatollah ru h ollah khomeini un seated the shah of iran .
that strategic nightmare cost israel and the us their closest ally in the region , one that was soon transformed into an impl ac able enemy .
israel ’ s two most recent wars – against hezbollah in lebanon in 2006 , and against hamas in gaza in 2009 – were fought against groups sponsored , supplied , and trained by iran .
clearly , israeli-palestinian negotiations will also now lie un attended as israel concentr ates on developments in egypt .
above all , israel must wonder if the peace treaty with egypt will hold , and , if not , how to carry out the massive restructuring of its defense posture that will be required .
but it is not only the fate of israel that has now shocked us policy , in particular , to its core .
egypt , after all , has been the cornerstone of america ’ s balancing act in the middle east – and the islamic world – for three decades .
the egyp t- israel peace treaty has kept egypt comfortably neutr alized , freeing the us to commit its strategic resources elsewhere .
in turn , egypt , propped up by massive us aid , has secured the region from a larger conflagr ation , even though the israel-palestine conflict has continued to sm older .
here in lies the core of the dilemma for the us : it wants egypt ’ s basic state apparatus to survive , so that the levers of power do not fall into the wrong hands .
this requires the us to be seen as siding with the public ’ s demand for change , yet to avoid being identified with political im mobility .
there is reason to feel reassured by obama ’ s reactions .
he termed mubarak ’ s departure a display of “ the power of human dignity , ” adding that “ the people of egypt have spoken , their voices have been heard , and egypt will never be the same . ”
but nothing that obama , or anyone else , says can answer the question now occupying the attention of senior us officials : will the coming of popular sovereignty to egypt inevitably lead to anti-americanism ?
running in place
santiago – a billionaire with a harvard degree runs for president of chile promising reforms to enhance productivity and competitiveness , and wins .
once he takes office in 2010 , the economy recovers quickly from the global financial crisis , creates jobs , and continues growing until recently .
the billionaire , never one to shy from publicity , claims the credit .
chile is a case of successful pro-market reform , argues se bas ti án piñera , who stepped down from the presidency on march 11 .
he is wrong .
even worse , the expansion is proving to be unsustainable , and chil e ans will soon feel the consequences of piñera ’ s failure to carry out the pro-growth reforms he once promised .
chile was hit hard by the 2008-2009 financial crisis : foreign loans vanished and the price of copper , chile ’ s main export , collapsed .
but this time around , the chilean economy was in shape to withstand massive external shocks .
the government had been running surpluses , public debt was almost n il , and banks were well regulated .
as a result , the government of president michelle bachelet ( who was in office from 2006 to 2010 and has just been sworn in for a second term ) was able to launch a potent anti- crisis fiscal stimulus , financed with resources saved from the earlier copper boom .
the central bank , autonomous from political pressures and run by highly respected professionals , did its part by slashing interest rates .
in europe , the recession has lasted six years and counting ; in chile , it lasted ten months .
tough regulation and record-low interest rates left companies and households with no debt overhang and little need to deleverage .
by late 2009 , the chilean economy was growing again , and in the years since , growth has been helped by highly prop iti ous external conditions .
sky-high commodity prices , rock-bottom dollar interest rates , and ample international liquidity are what chile hopes for in the rest of the world ; they are also precisely what chile got since 2010 .
unsurprisingly , growth was swift – until late last year , when the combination of the us federal reserve ’ s gradual exit from quantitative easing and lower commodity prices worldwide caused a swift deceler ation in economic activity .
after recording annual gdp growth of more than 5 % on average during the last four years , chile ’ s economy is expected to grow by 3.7 % or less in 2014 .
piñera blamed the incoming bachelet administration , and its plan to raise taxes , for the drop in the growth rate .
if so , bachelet ’ s economists are very influential indeed , because a similar slowdown has occurred all over latin america and in emerging countries worldwide .
the immediate cause of chile ’ s slowdown is the decline in investment , particularly in mining ; but the underlying problem is that the failure to diversify the economy sufficiently makes it far from clear what new kinds of investment , and which new exports , will take up the slack .
the export basket of economically diversified countries like thailand , malaysia , mexico , and ireland is entirely different from what it was a generation ago .
by contrast , chile ’ s export basket has remained unchanged .
in 1984 , chile exported copper and other minerals , paper and pul p , fruits and w ine , fish meal , and a s mat tering of light manufac tures .
thirty years later , chile ’ s exports comprise the same items .
investment in energy would probably take off – if only chile ’ s institutions were modern ized to make that possible .
this is another area where piñera ’ s legacy is wanting .
chile is unique among its neighbors in having no oil or gas .
chil e ans today pay the highest electricity rates in the region , because generating capacity has failed to keep pace with rising demand .
a prolonged dry spell could cause the lights to go off in the next few years .
ensuring both cheaper energy and a clean environment is a big challenge .
experts agree that it will require a national plan for locating gener ators across chile ’ s moun tain ous territory , a rev amped regime for the transmission of power , more intensive use of natural gas , and a concerted effort to promote renewables , particularly wind and solar .
regrett ably , piñera took action in none of these areas .
employment policy was yet another shortcoming of his administration .
with the post- 2009 recovery came a drop in measured joblessness , which allowed the government to pay scant attention to a labor market that leaves out far too many women and young chil e ans .
but these are all politically sensitive areas , where the smallest legal change can el icit how ls of opposition .
piñera took the safe route of attempting no changes at all .
and , of course , those young chil e ans will have better prospects of getting a job if they come equipped with a first- rate education .
chile has succeeded in getting the young into the classroom ( enrollment rates are comparable to those in developed countries ) ; but it has had limited success at ensuring that the young – and particularly the children of low-income families – receive a high-quality education once they are there .
piñera ’ s government became embroiled in a fight with protesting students over who should pay for university education .
that controversy prevented most other changes in education from going forward .
bachelet has vowed to end this paralysis and make educational reform her administration ’ s top priority .
the goal is laudable , but achieving it will not be easy .
every year , chile ’ s finance ministry asks a group of independent experts how fast chile can grow without triggering inflation or other imbalances .
in 2008 , before chile felt the consequences of the financial crisis , the average answer provided by those experts was 4. 83 % .
in 2013 , after three years of center-right government in chile , the corresponding answer was ... 4. 85 % .
under piñera ’ s government , pro-growth rhetoric was abundant .
but rhetoric alone can not boost an economy ’ s growth trajectory .
one hundred days of sol itude
santiago – when violence fl ared up in ukraine and protesters began dying at the hands of government agents , the european union threatened sanctions against ukrainian officials responsible for “ violence and excessive force . ”
president viktor yanukovych fled kyiv , leaving behind a private zo o with ex otic pigs and go ats – and also the foreign ministers of germany , france , and poland , who were in town trying to broker a deal to end the violence .
but when violence fl ared up – virtually simultaneously – in venezuela and protesters began dying at the hands of government agents , the organization of american states raised its voice to announce that ... it would not raise its voice .
the situation was up to venezuela to sort out , the o as stated .
foreign ministers from other latin american countries are nowhere to be seen in car ac as – certainly not denouncing repression and demanding an end to the violence .
meanwhile , the body count keeps rising .
the contrast highlights what everyone already knows : latin america ’ s regional institutions are weak – even weaker than europe ’ s .
but it also reveals something else : a morally c roo ked logic that condem ns governments and leaders to remain silent in the face of aggression , repression , and even death , because to say anything would be tantamount to “ intervention ” in another country ’ s internal affairs .
it was not always like this .
not long ago in latin america , life and liberty were deemed to be universal rights , to be defended across national borders .
my father was a chilean lawyer and human-rights activist .
general aug us to pin ochet k icked him and our family out of the country , and i spent my adoles cence and early adulthood in exile , sharing hopes and fears with other expatri ates from chile , argentina , brazil , and uruguay .
none of us – and no one on the latin american left – would have doubted for a moment that defending human rights was everyone ’ s responsibility , and that the international community should come down hard on governments that tortured and killed their own people .
in pin ochet ’ s chile or general j orge ra fa el vid ela ’ s argentina , anyone who complained about government- sponsored violence was painted as a member of an international communist conspiracy .
today , anyone who compl ains about violence in venezuela is , according to president nicolás maduro , a fascist and a lac key of the american empire .
yes , the situation in venezuela must be sor ted out by venezuelans .
the problem is that some venezuelans today can not march peacefully on the streets without being shot at .
some venezuelans can not speak freely to their fellow citizens , because each and every television station that would carry their words has been mu zz led or driven off the air .
and some venezuelans can not be sure their rights will be respected .
terms in office have exp ired for the prosecu tor- general , members of the national election commission , and supreme court justices , but no successors have been named , because maduro is unwilling to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing .
venezuelans would like nothing better than to be the ones who decide their own destiny , but the democratic means to do so are being denied to them .
indeed , one of the key opposition leaders , le opol do ló pez , has been arrested on lu dic rous charges of “ inciting crime . ”
it would have been pre po ster ous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government storm tro op ers to just gr in and bear it without any external solidarity or support .
it is just as pre po ster ous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing .
in these circumstances , the principle of self-determination , so bel o ved of foreign ministries everywhere , becomes an empty slogan .
perhaps the sadd est of all foreign reactions came from the university of chile ’ s student federation .
using language reminiscent of the stal inist 1950 ’ s , the federation – which has led student protests demanding better education in chile – condemned their venezuelan counterparts for “ defending the old order ” and “ devi ating from the path the people have chosen . ”
the problem with this argument ( if one can call it that ) is that “ the people ” do not speak with one voice , nor do their pronouncements fall fully formed from the sky .
to figure out what real people actually want and respond accordingly , democracies have procedures , constitutional guarantees , and individual rights .
when these are tr am pled upon , as they have been in venezuela , people can neither speak freely nor choose their path .
it is equally sil ly to argue that maduro ’ s actions must be legitimate because he came to power through an election .
a democratically elected leader retains legitimacy only to the extent that he or she beha ves democratically once in office .
as ge or ge town professor hec tor sch am is recently recalled , ant ó n io de ol iv e ira sal az ar in portugal , al fre do stro ess ner in par agu ay , and su har to in indonesia attained power through elections , yet no history book calls them democratic .
yanukovych , too , won an election , but he will be remembered mostly for the bloodshed he unleashed , the bankruptcy that now faces ukraine ’ s economy , and , of course , his private zo o and stable of fer r ar is .
venezuelans , like ukrainians , should know that they are not alone .
their struggle for democratic rights is everyone ’ s struggle .
people in latin america know this , even if their leaders are not always willing to say it out loud .
industrial policy re considered
santiago – first , the world bank became a ti reless advocate of women ’ s and gay rights .
then the international monetary fund backed the use of capital controls and voiced concern over income inequality .
next in line for ideological modernization is the inter- american development bank ( i ad b ) : in a forthcoming report , the bank calls for industrial policies in latin america .
this is a welcome development .
to be sure , the i ad b – never as sto dg y as the bretton woods twins , but still a traditional international financial bureaucracy – does not speak of industrial policies ; it uses the politically correct phrase “ productive development policies ” ( pd ps ) .
yet the message is clear : in latin america , the state and public policy should have a role in deciding what gets produced .
today , it is a matter of common sense .
last week , economists from the i ad b brought their gos pel to a conference in santiago , chile .
the country , for decades the region ’ s po ster - child for good economic management , is also an example of the risks that all latin american economies face .
with commodity prices falling and dollar interest rates on the rise , chilean growth is slowing sharply .
productivity gains have been sluggish for nearly 15 years , and the country ’ s export basket is the same as it was in the 1980 ’ s .
chile ’ s growth problems are among the least severe in the region .
it is one of only four countries ( along with brazil , panama , and the dominic an republic ) that have managed to reduce the per capita income gap with the united states since 1960 .
as the i ad b has pointed out in several earlier reports , productivity has been stagnant in most of latin america for a half-century or more .
what is to be done ?
the conventional prescription includes improving education ( especially the technical kind ) , modernizing labor markets , reducing bureaucratic red tape , and facilitating foreign investment and technology transfer .
to this standard tool kit the i ad b now adds pd ps , which can be “ horiz on tal ” or “ ver tical . ”
horiz on tal pd ps provide the inputs that a broad range of firms , across different sectors , need for their growth and development .
simple examples include transport infrastructure , trained engineers , and a labor force prof ic ient in english .
more sophisticated examples can involve systems for health and safety inspection , produc t- quality certi fication , or intellectual-property protection .
the problem is that some of these publicly provided inputs can be sec tor - or produc t- specific .
roads to remote and beautiful mountains foster ec o- tourism but do not help carry merchandise to the ne arest port .
a lab built to certi fy that beef does not have foo t- and- mouth disease is of little use in ver ifying that fruit and vege table exports are similarly disease- free .
that is where ver tical policies – those that favor a particular sector – come in .
horiz on tal pd ps are relatively un controversial , but ver tical pd ps can unleash severe criticism , with skeptics claiming that they involve “ picking winners . ”
but , as the examples given above suggest , the line between horiz on tal and ver tical policies is inevitably fu z zy .
in other words , when a government provides money to train a particular kind of engineer , lay out a particular road , or build a particular lab , it is favoring one sector over others , and hence de facto picking winners .
the i ad b argues that it is better to do this consciously , transparently , and with the appropriate checks and balances .
ver tical policies are also useful in solving coordination failures .
consider the tourism industry , which has great potential in the beautiful pat ag onia region of southern argentina and chile .
but no private firm will build a hotel in this remote , under- populated region if no road leads there .
by the same token , no government official will build a road if there are no hotels or lo dg es , for the road would lead nowhere .
without deliberate private- public coordination focused on tourism , the sector may never take off .
skeptics also point out that latin america already went through a round of industrial policy in the 1960 ’ s and 1970 ’ s , with results that were mediocre at best .
the i ad b report provides a balanced assessment of that episode .
worse , government help was handed out to strong and weak per form ers alike .
in asia , many firms that initially received help sooner or later became world-class competitors .
in latin america , with little market and policy discipline and chronically overvalued exchange rates , that transition seldom happened .
to be sure , those problems had to be corrected .
but in doing so , claims the i ad b , latin american governments may have gone too far : “ there is now a growing consensus among policymakers and analysts alike that by putting all industrial policy out of b ounds , the region may have thrown out the baby with the b ath water .
more and more , the question is not put in terms of whether to do active productive development policies but rather how to do them . ”
unlike 1960 ’ s- v int age industrial policy , modern pd ps aim to correct market failures , not do away with market incentives .
market failure is not the only issue .
the emerging new approach to pd ps is also fearful of state failure .
state agencies can be captured and aid can be used for private or political gain .
to prevent this , the report again us efully devi ates from re igning orthodoxy , which tells countries to identify and copy “ best practices ” from abroad .
this approach can not succeed if such practices require what local government can not deliver .
hence , “ the focus ought to be not on policy best practices but on policy best matches with institutional capabilities . ”
latin america will need a great deal of fresh thinking and many policy innovations if it is to keep growing in a post- commodity- boom era .
no policy is fail ure- proof .
but the approach advocated in the forthcoming i ad b report is the region ’ s best hope today .
dead cow walking ?
santiago – sim ón bol í v ar , the south american independence hero who hoped to wea ve the continent into a single nation , would sh ud der at the disintegration that prevails today in the continent ’ s energy sector .
surely he would understand that no community can be built on so fragmented a foundation .
peru has gas , which it sells to mexico .
bolivia also has gas , but it has been under- exploiting it ever since it nation alized the industry in 2006 .
argentina used to have a gas industry , but it was decimated by years of misguided government policies .
brazil discovered hydrocarbons deep in the atlantic ocean a few years ago and has begun auc tioning off rights , but actual production is still years away .
chile has no oil or gas , and no one in the neighborhood will sell it any , so it has to buy its supplies from as far away as indonesia .
moreover , south america ’ s electricity grids are seldom interconnected , and rates for power vary widely .
brazil and chile have the region ’ s highest electricity prices ( which are also among the highest in the world ) .
the competitiveness of their industries , and consumers ’ household budgets , suffer accordingly .
optimists imagine a scenario in which production is ration alized , pipelines are built , grids are interconnected , and gas from bolivia , argentina , or elsewhere fuels growth throughout the continent , benefiting everyone in the process .
but such dreams always hit a formidable obstacle : national rivalries that date back decades – in some cases centuries – and that repeatedly keep mutually profitable energy- integration agreements from being signed .
for example , a decade ago , contracts promising a steady supply of argentine gas at pre- set prices led chile to spend billions ref itting its power stations .
but , after a long period of price controls and massive underinvestment , domestic demand in argentina was far outpac ing supply .
so then-president né st or kirchner ’ s government tor e up the contracts and cut off exports to chile , stun ting its economic growth and leaving painful memories among its citizens .
but now a new and powerful factor could change this dismal political equation : shale gas , which is already having an important effect on the united states and its economy .
with us natural-gas prices down to just over $ 4 per million b tu ( from $ 13 just a few years ago ) , even prudent analysts expect the shale- energy revolution to increase america ’ s potential economic growth and add as many as two million new jobs .
the impact of shale energy on south america is tw of old .
for starters , there is the potential for cheaper imports for those countries with no gas ( chile ) or where local demand could exceed local supply ( brazil ) .
for a country like chile , where large hydro electric projects have been politically controversial , and where solar and wind power have been too slow in coming , gas imports from the us would be a tremendous boon .
in 2013 , the us department of energy authorized the first substantial gas- export facilities ; while the trick le is not yet a steady flow , the gap between us and much- higher world prices implies tremendous potential benefits .
then there is the shale gas to be exploited closer to home .
argentina reportedly has the world ’ s third-largest shale-gas reserves , after the us and china .
the huge vac a mu er ta ( dead cow ) field , owned by the energy company yp f , is just now beginning to be explored .
argentina ’ s government expropri ated yp f from spain ’ s rep sol  in 2012 , with the resulting suits and counter suits delaying any potential investment in shale .
but , with argentina and rep sol  recently reaching a settlement , interest has revived .
surely , the technical challenges of exploiting such shale-gas reserves are huge , and only a handful of firms in the world have the necessary knowhow .
the financial challenges are even greater : analysts speak of tens or even hundreds of billions of dollars in required investment .
but the potential for argentina and the region is tremendous .
feder ic o st ur zen eg ger , an argentine economist and president of ban co de la ci ud ad de buenos aires , has estimated the value of vac a mu er ta gas ( at the prices argentina currently pays for gas imports ) to be equal to nine times the country ’ s gdp .
but , because world prices are likely to drop fast as the us steps up exports , argentina has to act quickly in order to capture these potential gains .
st ur zen eg ger has called the decision about shale gas “ the most important ” in argentina ’ s economic history .
argentina ’ s choices could matter not just for the region ’ s economy , but also for its politics .
because vac a mu er ta holds much more gas than argentina could ever burn , exports are the inescapable way forward , and neighboring brazil and chile are among the natural customers .
the shift in the regional balance of gas -based power could in turn cause nationalists in bolivia , peru , and elsewhere to rethink their policies .
integration in the oil , gas , and other energy industries , along with the inter connection of national power grids , could follow .
south america ’ s economic and political landscape would be changed forever .
is this too optimistic ?
perhaps .
the political and legal safeguards needed to make energy flows safe and reliable would have to be built .
as the region ’ s history shows , that is no easy task .
but the stakes are so high , and the potential so great , that the least one must do is hope .
mer cos ur bl ues
santiago – when the leaders of mer cos ur met in car ac as this week , the usual bluster about standing up to imperialism filled the air .
but so did the unmistakable sc ent of decay .
mer cos ur is usually described as a trade grouping ; in fact , it has been a political creation from the start .
brazil , the regional powerhouse , always viewed it as a counterweight to the united states in hemis pheric affairs .
per onist governments in argentina used it to hype integration while doing little or nothing to remove actual barriers to trade .
with the entrance of hugo chávez ’ s venezuela in 2006 , the lur ch toward populism became unmistakable .
as a chilean government minister late last decade , i remember the frustration of attending mer cos ur gather ings ( chile is an associate member ) .
they were long on posturing and endless speeches , but short on substantive agreements about anything .
at the 2006 summit in c ó r d ob a , when chávez and fidel castro du eled over who could deliver the longest and most ram bling address , spirits were running high .
bolivia , also governed by a charismatic populist , was keen to develop closer ties .
ecuador soon followed suit .
and a s mat tering of smaller countries in central america and the caribbean fell into political line in exchange for generous in fu sions of venezuelan cash and oil .
back then , mer cos ur leaders could claim to offer an “ alternative development model ” for the region .
no more .
this week in car ac as , the mood was fun er eal .
the host , chávez ’ s successor nicolás maduro , confronts a collapsing economy and tensions within his own party .
despite relatively high oil prices , venezuela has a large fiscal deficit and falling foreign-exchange reserves .
the inflation rate is the region ’ s highest , and the economy is stagnating .
in the face of popular frustration with worsening living conditions , maduro ’ s government has relied on violent repression to put an end to street protests .
opposition leader le opol do ló pez spent months in a military prison before recently being put on trial .
institutions like human rights watch have repeatedly denounced the government ’ s rights violations and restrictions on civil liberties .
argentina ’ s president , cristina fern án dez de kirchner , arrived in car ac as hoping to rou se support in her fight against the so-called vul ture funds that bought her country ’ s sovereign bonds on the cheap and have successfully sued for payment in full .
but fern án dez found that her colleagues ’ pol ite words of encouragement mattered little .
the us supreme court ’ s decision last month to uphold a lower court ’ s ruling against argentina put her in an impossible situation .
paying the recalcitrant bondholders would mean losing face and possibly triggering a salv o of copy cat lawsuits ; not paying would mean technical default and all of its attend ant costs .
she chose the latter option .
access to foreign capital matters for fern án dez , because , like maduro , she faces a stalled economy and a growing dollar shortage .
in an effort to regain access to capital markets , her economic team pat ched up things with the paris club of sovereign creditors and spain ’ s rep sol  ( the former owner of nation alized oil giant yp f ) ; but the fight with the vul tures has set the country back .
with a presidential election looming in october 2015 , most potential candidates ( even those from her own party ) are quickly dist ancing themselves from her authoritarian style and troubled economic legacy .
in bolivia , president evo morales has resorted to legal and constitutional shen an ig ans to guarantee himself yet another term in office .
after two terms , morales would in theory be prohibited from running again .
but bolivia ’ s constitutional court has ruled that he can , because the adoption of a new constitution re defined the country as the plur in ational state of bolivia ; morales , therefore , served his first term as the head of a different state .
when asked why he will run again , he replied – in a peculiar conf ession for a nationalist leader – that former queen sof ía of spain had encouraged him to “ finish the job . ”
in ecuador , too , democratic institutions are under siege .
an independent report has chron ic led 12 separate episodes of government meddling with court rulings .
a controversial ga g law on the press that was enacted last year has already ended a major newspaper ’ s print edition .
according to catal ina bo ter o , the outgoing rap port eur for freedom of expression of the inter- american human rights commission , “ ecuador is , along with cuba , the country that most restric ts freedom of expression . ”
brazilian president dilma rousseff faces a situation that is both similar to and different from that of her mer cos ur colleagues .
brazil is not the kind of country where a president can manipulate the constitution or close newspapers at will .
but malaise is in the air in br as il ia ( leaving aside the world cup thr ashing delivered by germany ) .
brazil ’ s swift recovery from the 2008 financial crisis ende ared it to international financial markets ; but weak growth since then has left yesterday ’ s promise un fulfilled .
despite low unemployment , economic anxiety is on the rise – and is beginning to fil ter to the political realm .
with rousseff dropping in the polls and her opponents slowly gaining , the october presidential election – once thought to be a done deal – may be up for grabs .
absent from the car ac as summit was chile ’ s president , michelle bachelet , who blamed a cold and a busy domestic agenda for her inability to travel .
political complications linked to a possible meeting with the venezuelan opposition , which bachelet had chosen not to attend ( prefer ring to send her foreign minister ) , likely also played a part .
rousseff and bachelet were natural candidates to lead the development of a moderate counterweight to the populism of maduro , fern án dez , morales , and correa .
but rousseff , like her predecessor , the popular luiz inácio lula da silva , has chosen not to fill that role , instead co z ying up to venezuela .
chile is too small to go it alone , and bachelet has her hands full with increasingly controversial tax , education , and constitutional reforms .
uruguay ’ s president , josé mu j ica , offered the best summary of what happened in car ac as : “ we issued a statement . ”
in other words , mer cos ur remains an irrelevant talking shop – and the emergence of a modern center-left regional leadership in latin america will have to wait .
the third way 's second chance
santiago – remember tony blair and bill clinton ’ s third way ?
it is back .
the faces and names have changed , but the idea that governments can – and should – combine social-democratic values and modern liberal economics has returned to center stage .
at a june 2000 gathering of leaders in berlin , hosted by germany ’ s then- chancellor gerhard schröder , the third way seemed like the way of the future .
the gathering was blair ’ s brain child ( though he did not attend because his wife had just had a child ) .
leaders from sweden and new zealand argued that you could make the state both lean er and more effective .
and the third way could travel well to what was once called the third world , claimed south africa ’ s th ab o mbeki , brazil ’ s fern and o hen rique car dos o , and chile ’ s ricardo lag os ( i was present as part of lag os ’ s delegation . )
sadly , it was not to last .
the sound b ites about progressive governance did not grow easily into a lasting political philosophy .
al gore traded clint onom ics for traditional populism and was defeated by george w. bush .
social democrats and their allies lost power in several european countries .
the war in iraq and the global financial crisis of 2008-2009 caused a backlash against some of the policies advocated by third way leaders .
fast forward to the present .
italy ’ s 3 9- year-old socialist prime minister , matteo renzi , is often described as his country ’ s last hope .
he is promising ( though not quite yet delivering ) deep labor-market and fiscal reforms .
after his electoral victory , renzi received early ku dos from blair himself , who claimed that “ matteo has the dynamism , creativity , and t oug hn ess to succeed . ”
manuel valls , france ’ s socialist prime minister , is sta king his political capital on an ambitious program of tax and spending cuts that does not enjoy the backing of his party ’ s traditi onal ist wing .
critics from the orthodox left accuse him of “ taking solutions from blair and schröder . ”
renzi and valls – along with pe dr o s án che z of spain ’ s socialist party – are part of a broader trend .
with the world economy growing slowly , many center-left politicians are trying to mobilize markets and jump -start growth while investing in jobs and skills .
thus , dire need is the immediate explanation for the return of third way ideas .
it is not surprising that deeply indebted european governments are casting about for new social policies at a low fiscal cost .
but the harsh austerity advocated by germany ’ s conservative government is not the same as the gradual adjustment sought by the new generation of southern social democrats .
conservatives demand fiscal adjustment up front , whatever the consequences .
modern social democrats who have read their keynes understand that some immediate adjustment is necessary to make the program credible .
but they also know that additional spending on human capital and physical infrastructure is necessary to limit the impact of fiscal retrenchment on employment and wages and to strengthen the economy ’ s growth potential .
the other reason for giving third way ideas a second hearing is that they work .
schröder ’ s reshaping of germany ’ s labor market in the early 2000s was hugely controversial at the time ; but , in retrospect , it turned germany from the sick man of europe into the continent ’ s export powerhouse .
the nordic countries have led the way in experim enting with new ways to deliver public services while adopting “ flex ic ur ity ” in labor relations .
the result : they have achieved the tr if ec ta of robust growth , high employment , and low public debt .
the effectiveness of these ideas is not limited to the rich countries of the north .
the governments of the concer tac ión in chile , alan gar c ía in peru , and fern and o hen rique car dos o in brazil all derived inspiration from the bl air- clint on- schröder agenda .
all had ( or have ) their share of controversi es .
but each undeniably launched an unprecedented period of democratic consolidation and economic modernization in their respective countries .
in the case of a é cio ne ves , who belongs to car dos o ’ s party , that is not surprising .
but it is remarkable in the case of socialist mar ina silva , who is calling for new trade pacts beyond mer cos ur and for making the central bank of brazil independent .
blair , who gave the bank of england its full independence during his first week in office , would be proud .
there are many differences across countries and time , but in the end four ideas are common to these successful experiences .
the first is policy pragmatism .
what matters is what works , not what is ideologically pure .
instead of the ster ile and endless debate as to whether the state should be big or small , it is more fruit ful to ask what kind of state intervention , and where .
the second idea is fiscal realism .
budgetary prudence is both desirable ( unsustainable deficits owe their name to the fact that they can not be sustained ) and progressive ( when things blow up , it is the poor and the vulnerable who suffer the most ) .
the third idea is modern wel far ism .
the state can and should redistribute income and wealth , but in doing so it should not weaken incentives to work and to save .
instead of simply providing handouts , governments should strive to guarantee good jobs at good wages .
finally , the third way is defined by progressive liberalism .
liberty and equality are complementary , not contradictory , principles .
if the rules are designed properly , a society in which people decide and act freely can also be a society in which opportunities are fairly distributed .
and conversely , without minimum opportunity for all , liberty is more illusory than real .
these four ideas anim ate a third way that is now enjoying a second chance – though it should have been the first choice all along .
the law less sea
santiago – the rule of law is almost entirely absent , with virtually no governance or policing .
illegal , un reported , and unregulated economic activities are common .
the powerful seize non- renewable resources at the expense of the powerless .
environmental degradation is on the rise .
that may sound like a description of a failed state , a desperately poor country beset by civil war , or a fic tional dy stop ia .
but it is none of the above .
the vast region ( 45 % of the earth ’ s total surface ) with next to no governance or rule of law is the high seas – nearly two-thirds of the global ocean that lies outside of any country ’ s jurisdiction .
how is this possible ?
after all , there is the legally binding 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea , which has been ratified by 16 6 states and the european union .
when un clo s was negotiated , the high seas were protected because they were in accessible .
but technological advances have enabled the exploitation of resources to extend farther and deeper than ever before .
un clo s has not kept pace with these developments .
industries and activities such as fisheries , shipping , and se ab ed mining are all regulated separately .
no governance framework is in place for emerging high- seas industries such as energy production .
transparency and accountability are weak , and there is little enforcement of rules .
moreover , the authorities have limited power to inter cep t vessels suspected of illegal activity .
as a result , international cooperation to counter illegal fishing , smuggling of weapons and drugs , human trafficking , piracy , and the use of vessels in terrorist operations has been greatly hampered .
the consequences are dire .
the ocean is our planet ’ s life- sup port - system , keeping it healthy and productive .
but over fishing and pollution are causing tremendous damage .
marine de bris causes the death by drowning , suff oc ation , or starvation of some one million se ab ir ds and around 100,000 marine mam m als ( se als , whales , and dol ph ins ) every year , not to mention the hazard posed to shipping by sea junk .
plastic pollution – including p el lets and micro plastics that enter food chains and can endanger human health – is a growing problem .
likewise , rising temperatures are reducing the ocean 's oxy gen - carrying capacity .
the increasing up take of carbon dioxide is causing ocean ac idi fication and unprecedented changes in chemical and physical conditions , which in turn are affecting marine organisms and ecosystems .
the very life of the global ocean is under threat .
the time has come to bring the rule of law to the high seas .
that is the purpose behind the global ocean commission , an independent international body comprising former heads of state , ministers , and business leaders .
i am one of the commissioners .
last week , we proposed a rescue package that offers eight proposals to improve governance and restore ocean health .
to strengthen high- seas governance , the global ocean commission is joining the call for a new agreement under un clo s to protect biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction .
less than 1 % of the high seas is currently protected , so it is crucial that this new agreement includes provisions for creating protected areas in the high seas .
we are also proposing that an international convention be adopted to establish liability and compensation for both economic losses and ecological damage caused by offshore oil and gas exploration and production , which should also always be subject to legally binding safety protocols .
despite over fishing , a handful of countries – including the united states , japan , and china , as well as the eu – are artificially supporting industrial high- seas fishing .
without subsidies , high- seas fisheries would not be financially viable .
we are proposing that subsidies be capped immediately and eliminated within five years , and that countries be fully transparent about all fishing subsidies , about 60 % of which directly encourage unsustainable practices .
moreover , to eliminate illegal fishing , which stri ps our oceans of marine life , we are calling for mandatory identification numbers and the tracking of all high- seas fishing vessels , and a total ban on trans ship ment at sea .
by closing loopholes , we will finally close our ports and markets to illegally obtained fish .
an independent global ocean accountability board – the creation of which we are also proposing – should monitor progress on all of these fronts .
in five years , if ocean decline continues and adequate prevention measures have not been implemented , the international community should consider turning the high seas – with the exception of those areas where action by regional fisheries management organizations is effective – into a regener ation zone where industrial fishing is forbidden .
we can reverse ocean degradation , and turn the cycle of decline into a cycle of renewal .
delivering change will take political will and require joint efforts by governments , businesses , and civil society .
it can and must be done .
join our mission at h tt p : / / mis sion oce an . me .
the time to act is now .
unless we respond with strong governance and the necessary tools to enforce regulations , ruthless pir ate fishing will continue with impunity , there will be no binding international safety standards for deep sea oil and gas drilling , and plastic pollution and abandoned fishing ge ar will continue to prolifer ate .
the more the global ocean struggles for life , the more our children and future generations will struggle for theirs .
argentina ’ s use and abuse of keynes
buenos aires – “ we are all keynesians now , ” republican us president richard nixon famously said in 1971 .
today , ax el k ic ill of , argentina ’ s per onist economy minister , is echo ing this sentiment .
is he right ?
k ic ill of has gained international recognition as the public face of argentina ’ s fight against the so-called vul ture funds that want to ex tor t full payment on argentine bonds that they purchased for a few penn ies on the dollar .
but , before joining president cristina fern án dez de kirchner ’ s cabinet , k ic ill of was known in argentine intellectual circles as the author of the book vol ver a keynes ( return to keynes ) .
last week , addressing a gil ded ball room packed with the elite of argentina ’ s business community , k ic ill of explained the government ’ s policies as a real-world application of keynesian theories .
in an hour - long speech , he made two key points .
first , k ic ill of attributed argentina ’ s rapid economic growth in the years between its 2001 debt default and the 2008 global financial crisis to a keynesian reflation of domestic aggregate demand .
keynes made a tremendous intellectual contribution in showing that supply in a market economy does not necessarily create its own demand , and that demand shortfalls can cause avoidable recessions .
is this logic at work in argentina ?
when the argentine economy implo ded in 2001 , citizens lost their jobs and firms lost their access to credit , causing domestic demand to collapse .
output fell sharply .
but , as the country abandoned the one- to- one currency peg to the us dollar , the real exchange rate depreciated .
this shifted demand away from imports toward domestically produced goods .
next , a sharp rise in the price of food exports , heavily taxed in argentina , augm ented government revenues , providing the cash to finance increased expenditure .
given argentina ’ s isolation from world financial markets , its central bank could cut domestic interest rates with limited fear of capital flight .
the fiscal and monetary impulse supported a rapid recovery .
at first glance , k ic ill of seems to be correct ; this looks like textbook keynesian reflation .
but keynes would not have approved of the macroeconomic policies pursued by fern án dez and her predecessor and husband , the late né st or kirchner .
a keynesian approach would ensure that demand does not fall short of supply .
the kirch ners have made sure that demand far exceeds supply .
the fact that argentina ’ s annual inflation rate has stood at 20 % or more for over a decade clearly illustrates this – and can not be obs cured by frozen utility rates and repeated manipulation of the consumer price index .
all u ding to keynes ’ s theories about self-fulfilling expectations , he warned that , if people expect things to go wrong , they will .
keynes did say – and it was a very important insight – that a capitalist economy resembles a beauty contest , with judges voting not for the most beautiful cont est ant , but for the cont est ant whom they believe their colleagues will find most beautiful .
shifts in expectations can thus alter the outcome .
but argent ines are not pessimistic about the economy because other argent ines are pessimistic .
they are pessimistic because the economy ’ s fundamentals are weak – a fundamental difference .
in 1991 , the nobel laureate economist paul krugman , who is perhaps the world ’ s leading keynesian today , showed that whether or not expectations are self-fulfilling depends on underlying economic conditions .
if an economy ’ s fundamentals are very weak , a crisis will inevitably occur sooner or later ; if its fundamentals are very strong , a crisis never happens ; and if they are in an intermediate range , a crisis happens if – and only if – people expect one .
a couple of years ago , the eurozone was in the latter situation .
that is why european central bank president mario draghi ’ s pledge to do “ whatever it takes ” to save the euro immediately brought the eurozone ’ s debt crisis to a halt .
( the growth crisis , of course , has yet to be resolved . )
but argentina is not the eurozone .
there is nothing that k ic ill of could say today that would have the so o thing effect that draghi ’ s promise did .
argent ines today feel much like dor o thy did when she first l anded in o z – they are not in the safe and familiar “ kansas ” anymore .
but keynes is not to blame . k ic ill of and kirchner are .
mon si eur piketty goes to latin america
santiago – few things exc ite intellectuals of the old latin american left like a book on inequality written by a fren ch man .
so , predictably , thomas piketty ’ s capital in the twenty-first century has been a big hit .
in the two months since the book ’ s publication in english , many an essay has been pen ned claiming that the paris school of economics professor ’ s grand o eu v re confirms earlier claims ( usually the author ’ s own ) about the perils of inequality in latin america .
piketty we aves a grand narrative about the dynamics of capital accumulation in a market economy .
in his now- famous form ulation , if the rate of return on capital is greater than the rate of growth of the economy , inherited wealth will grow more quickly than wage income , and the owners of capital will receive an increasing share of national output .
no one can deny that the distribution of income is scand al ously unequal in latin america .
but it will come as a surprise to piketty ’ s boo sters ( many of whom have yet to read his book ) that his theory has little , if anything , to do with the measured dynamics of income distribution in the region .
piketty ’ s theory concerns what economists call the functional distribution of income , or the split between providers of labor and owners of capital .
but the mal distribution that causes so much unease in latin america concerns the personal distribution of labor income – that is , the split among wage earners .
that is because the bulk of income- distribution data in latin america comes from household surveys , which seldom manage to el icit tru thful information about how much piketty ’ s renti ers , who receive their income as profits , dividends , or interest , actually earn .
for example , the results from the 2009 cas en , chile ’ s broad - ranging household survey , suggest that capital income is more equally distributed than labor income .
no one in his right mind should believe this , of course .
all this result shows is that owners of stocks and bonds tend to lie to government surve y ors .
that , in turn , reveals two bits of information – both grim – about income distribution in latin america .
second , even if all of the capital dynamics that so concern piketty could be wished away , the distribution of income in latin america would still be app all ingly skewed .
and the cure for that mal distribution does not lie just in the sizeable wealth taxes that piketty advocates .
why not ?
surely , if labor income is skewed , redistribu ting capital income or assets to the poor can boost overall equality .
a recent paper by economists at the international monetary fund , using a new data set covering many countries , is fairly sangu ine about the potential for increased redistribution without undermining economic growth .
but the paper also offers a reminder that there are limits to how much income the tax system can redistribute .
the authors compare the gini coefficient ( a commonly used 100- point index of inequality , with zero sign ifying perfect equality and 100 indicating perfect inequality ) before and after government taxes and transfers .
they show that only a handful of countries redistribute enough to make more than a ten- point difference in the coefficient , and that redistribu tion- fueled swings of more than 13 points do tend to have an adverse effect on growth .
of course , real- life redistribu tions , at least in latin america , are much smaller than that .
the tax reform recently proposed by president michelle bachelet ’ s administration in chile involves raising an additional 3 % of gdp .
even if none of that money leaks and all is re distributed to poorer chil e ans , the reform is unlikely to lower the gini score by more than three points .
the problem is that chile ’ s after-tax gini coefficient is approximately 50 ( brazil , colombia , and peru have similar figures ) , while those of the advanced countries are mostly in the low 30 ’ s or even the high 20 ’ s .
turning chile and some of its neighbors into countries with oecd levels of equality will require a great deal more than tax reform .
put differently : if a society ’ s initial playing field is very uneven , that society will remain quite unequal even after a sizeable fiscal redistribution .
the policy focus , therefore , must also be on what yale university political scientist jacob  h acker calls “ pre- distribution ” : changing the market- determined structure of wage incomes .
three main tools are available for improving the pre- distribution of income .
first , education reform – with a strong emphasis on technical training – would end ow low-income citizens with new skills that they could supply in the labor market .
second , targeted industrial policy would create the demand for those workers and their newly acquired skills .
and , third , modernization of labor markets would lead to more efficient matching of workers ’ skills and firms ’ special needs in a context of growing heter ogene ity .
these policies are not substitutes but compl ements : they must all be undertaken at the same time .
doing so is not easy .
in latin america , center-left political leaders , concerned as they are with economic and social justice , will have to fashion their own country- specific approaches .
there is no ready- made recipe awaiting them in a french economist ’ s magn um op us .
the high cost of ocean decline
santiago – the world ’ s oceans are in trouble .
in late september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change reported that the oceans are warming , se a water is ac idi fying , and oxygen concentrations are dropping .
last week , another initiative , the international program on the state of the ocean , outlined the toll that these and other factors , such as destructive fishing and pollution , are having on marine life .
ocean degradation is not as visible as deforestation , but it is at least as dangerous .
the oceans provide at least half of the oxygen we breathe .
harm to the oceans can have a tremendous global impact .
degradation is particularly serious in the one substantial part of the world that is governed internationally – the high seas .
these waters are outside maritime states ’ exclusive economic zones ; they comprise two-thirds of the oceans ’ area , covering fully 45 % of the earth ’ s surface .
the global ocean commission , an independent initiative that i joined earlier this year , is re viewing the condition of the high seas .
next year , it will produce a set of recommendations concerning how to restore our oceans to full health and ecological productivity .
one of the first tasks is to quanti fy the economic losses caused by ocean degradation .
back in 1997 , a pioneering paper by robert co stan za and his colleagues put the overall value of marine ecosystem services at $ 21 trillion .
others have estimated that illegal fishing costs the global economy $ 10- 2 3.5 billion per year , and poor management of fisheries $ 50 billion per year .
but these figures are nearly a decade old ; the commission will update these estimates and make them more precise .
it is not enough to document that the losses are big .
obviously , the next question is what to do about it .
no single official body has overall responsibility for the high seas .
so , even if the economic losses turn out to be much higher than previous estimates , there are currently few effective mechanisms to bring about change .
the basic pillar of ocean governance , the united nations convention on the law of the sea , was established 30 years ago .
since then , huge technological advances have occurred , and demand for resources has increased massively .
so stopping and reversing the degradation of the world ’ s oceans requires improved governance mechanisms , which must be used to enforce economically sensible and innovative solutions .
here the experience of countries fighting against deforestation is helpful .
costa rica arguably started a trend in the early 1990 ’ s , when it began lev ying taxes on fossil fuels and using the revenue to protect forests .
the net result was a reversal of deforestation .
the economy has benefited directly through a growth in tourism , and indirectly by preserving ecosystem services such as pol lin ation .
the concept of payment for ecosystem services is currently receiving attention from governments around the world .
costa rica and colombia have both signed up to a program funded by donor governments .
brazil has schemes that pay for protecting water courses .
an initiative called red d ( reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ) would pay for ecosystem services on a global scale by rewarding forest conservation , thereby regulating climate change .
these ideas should receive more attention in the future , as our supplies of non- renewable resources dwind le .
when the global ocean commission issues its recommendations for reform next year , economics will be at their heart .
once we have more accurate data on the value of the ocean , we must decide how we use this information .
payment for ecosystem services could be a solution , though there are likely to be simpler options .
but wh ich ever mechanism is eventually adopted , we must also address the governance question : today ’ s inadequate system allows both economic and ecological losses to persist .
there are tremendous costs associated with allowing the current laissez-faire regime to continue .
we hope leaders understand that the world ’ s oceans – and the ecosystem services they provide – are too important to be allowed to fail .
secular stagnation heads south
santiago – as commodity prices come back to earth and the federal reserve ’ s gradual exit from quantitative easing leads to higher interest rates in the united states , latin america ’ s economies face the challenge of sustaining growth .
the region ’ s main economies recorded slower gdp growth in 2013 , and much the same is being forecast for 2014 .
it is pretty clear by now that an extraordinarily benevolent external environment , not a revolutionary policy shift , underpinned latin america ’ s rapid growth in the years following the 2008-2009 global economic crisis .
as long as the price of so y , wheat , copper , oil , and other raw materials remained strat os pheric , commodity- rich countries like brazil , chile , and peru got a tremendous boost ; even argentina grew rapidly , despite terrible economic policies .
but now “ secular stagnation ” – the concept du j our in us policy debates since former treasury secretary larry summers argued last november that the us ( and perhaps other advanced economies ) has entered a long period of anemic gdp growth – may also be coming to latin america .
the argument goes like this : high consumer debt , slowing population growth , and rising income inequality have weakened consumer demand and stimulated savings , while slowing growth in productivity and output itself has discouraged investment .
so the “ natural ” rate of interest – the rate at which the demand for investment equals the supply of savings – has fallen , and arguably has become negative .
but , because real interest rates can not be strongly negative unless inflation is high ( which it is not ) , there is a savings glut .
with consumption and investment lagging , the us economy is bound to stagnate .
but how could such a situation apply to latin america , where gdp growth is faster , interest rates are higher , and domestic demand is stronger than in the us ?
consider the region ’ s history .
until the recent commodity- driven boom let , growth in latin america was mediocre .
the 1980 ’ s are known as the “ lost decade , ” owing to a debt crisis and massive recessions , while the market-based reforms of the 1990 ’ s did little to reign ite short-run growth .
from 1960 to 2007 , only four countries in latin america and the caribbean – brazil , chile , the dominic an republic , and panama – grew faster than the us .
so meager growth in the coming years would be a return to latin america ’ s historical pattern , not a devi ation from it .
that brings us back to secular stagnation .
yes , latin american countries ’ average per capita gdp is only one-quarter that of the us , so they should be growing faster than their rich northern neighbor .
the question is how much faster .
stagnation in this context means a growth rate that is too low to ensure convergence toward us living standards within a reasonable period of time .
unlike the us , latin american economies ’ actual output is at or near potential , so growing more means investing more .
yet investment has been disappointing .
and the region ’ s problem is not too much domestic savings , but too little .
latin american countries save 18 % of gdp , on average , compared to 30 % in fast-growing east asia .
as a result , every time investment pic ks up in latin america , it has to be financed with loans from abroad .
foreign investors are willing to live with the resulting current-account deficits , but only up to a point .
it took only a few words from fed chairman ben bernanke last may – announcing the eventual end of quantitative easing – for markets to lose confidence in emerging economies with current-account deficits near or above 4 % of gdp .
as a result , now , as in the recent past , whenever foreigners get jit tery , financing and investment in latin america are curtailed , and growth suffers .
the scarcity of savings in the region reflects the weak incentives embedded in poorly designed tax and pension systems .
but savings performance is also related to long-standing fiscal problems .
to be sure , the fiscal stance improved in many latin american economies in the years leading up to 2007 , so countries like chile were able to mount a strong anti- crisis fiscal response .
but , as a 2013 inter- american development bank ( i ad b ) report makes clear , the fiscal stimulus was not always withdrawn in time when the crisis ab ated , so the fiscal position across the region today is weaker than it was in 2007 .
the composition of government spending is also a problem .
according to the same i ad b report , investment accounts for only 16 % of fiscal outlays , less than half the share in emerging asia .
so latin america suffers from a longstanding infrastructure deficit , which acts as a drag on growth .
even abundant domestic savings in the future would not guarantee higher investment .
firms ’ eag erness to invest depends on how much additional output they can get out of that investment , and recent productivity growth in latin america – as in the us – has been disappointing .
lagging productivity has many causes , but one is the failure to diversify local economic structures .
economies become more productive either by doing what they do more efficiently , or by shifting resources into new sectors in which productivity is higher – a process that can be observed ( or not ) by looking at export diversification .
and the sad fact is that today most latin american countries – mexico being a notable exception – export pretty much the same goods that they exported a generation ago .
that is yet another big difference between the region and east asia .
so , can latin american economies keep growing once commodity prices and world interest rates edge back toward normality ?
we in the region hope they can .
but a return to stagnation is also a possibility – one that can be minim ized only if policymakers acknowledge it and begin taking preventive action right away .
the humanities crisis
new york – a striking sym metry is emerging in debates about the future of higher education around the world .
on the one hand , there is growing concern that the united states and many european countries are failing to prepare enough university graduates in the fields driving the twenty-first century “ knowledge economy , ” such as engineering and information technology .
this fear has led to the narrowing of the concept of education to mean the acquisition of practical skills .
on the other hand , the worry in some parts of asia is that young people entering the work force with strong technical training lack sufficient experience “ thinking outside the box . ”
this fear is manif esting itself in an incipient effort to expand education to include the cultiv ation of feeling and imagination .
both movements are rooted in economic concerns .
in the us , where most under graduates bear at least part of the cost of their university education , political pressure is mounting to provide incentives like tu ition dis counts or loan forgiveness to students of science , technology , engineering , or mathematics ( the so-called stem fields ) .
cost- cutting measures , such as com pressing traditional four-year degree programs into three years – thereby reducing or eliminating elec tive courses in “ im practical ” subjects like literature , philosophy , and fine arts – are also being discussed .
meanwhile , in hong kong , singapore , and china , there are calls for extending university programs so that students can obtain a broad , liberal education , in the hope that graduates will be more inclined to experiment and innovate .
hong kong university , for example , has extended its under graduate programs from three years to four .
but such a narrow , econom ic s- based view fails to account for the larger questions of value that societies worldwide are facing .
it is also true , however , that such training does not provide an adequate foundation for addressing the more abstract , but profoundly important , questions that ultimately must guide global policy and decision-making .
for example :
· how can the imperative of economic development be reconciled with the need to limit climate change ?
· what does national sovereignty mean in a world where diseases , pollutants , and terrorists cross national borders at will ?
· are there universal human rights that transcend conflicting claims of particular cultural traditions ?
· how should limited resources be distributed in order to provide opportunity and hope to young people , while treating the elderly with dignity and respect ?
· what are a country ’ s obligations to refugees fleeing from persecution , poverty , or strife elsewhere ?
· how should we balance individual liberty and collective security ?
in answering such questions , advances in science and technology ( for example , new methods of energy production , surveillance , or online learning ) will have a key role to play .
but moral and ethical questions never yield fully to technical solutions ; they also require an understanding of humanity ’ s social and cultural heritage .
science can help us to attain the life we want , but it can not teach us what kind of life is worth wanting .
in short , each side in the current education debate is half right .
as human affairs become increasingly complex and morally ex ig ent , future generations will need both scientific and human istic learning – and they will need them more than ever .
fortunately , promising new models for making education more coherent and capac ious are emerging .
yale university and the national university of singapore have worked together to establish y al e- n us , singapore ’ s first liberal arts college .
led by a literary scholar and an astronom er , this new residential college aims to break down inter disciplinary boundaries and enable students to learn from one another .
likewise , quest university in canada encourages students to bring both scientific and human istic knowledge to bear on today ’ s most pressing problems .
similar efforts have been underway for years in the us .
for example , north carolina state university ’ s benjamin franklin scholars program – a collaboration between the college of engineering and the college of humanities and social sciences – aims “ to produce well- r ounded professionals who are analytical problem- sol vers , ethical decision-makers , and effective commun ic ators . ”
unfortunately , such programs largely lack the vis ibility and influence needed to shape educational reform .
it is time to abandon the “ e i ther /or ” discourse that p its science against humanities – which the british chem ist and novel ist c . p . snow identified more than a half-century ago as an obstacle to human progress .
it is time to seek out best practices that bridge this put ative divide , and scale them up .
in the important work of adapting educational institutions for the future , we must not lose sight of their core mission as articulated in the past .
no one has expressed that mission better than benjamin franklin , a man of letters and a scientific innov ator , who defined education as the quest for “ true merit . ”
“ true merit , ” franklin wrote , consists in “ an inclination joined with an ability to serve mankind , one ’ s country , friends , and family ; which ability is … to be acquired or greatly increased by true learning ; and should , indeed , be the great aim and end of all learning . ”
this is an aspiration that should be renewed for every generation .
piketty with chinese characteristics
hong kong – in his best selling book capital in the twenty-first century , thomas piketty argues that capitalism aggrav ates inequality through several mechanisms , all of which are based on the notion that r ( the return on capital ) falls less quickly than g ( growth in income ) .
while debate about piketty ’ s work has focused largely on the advanced economies , this fundamental concept fits china ’ s recent experience , and thus merits closer examination .
the fixed- capital investments that have formed the basis of china ’ s growth model largely have benefited the entire economy ; infrastructure improvements , for example , have enabled the rural poor to increase their productivity and incomes .
as the investment rate rose to almost half of gdp , the share of consumption fell to as little as a third .
the government , recognizing the need to rebalance growth , began to raise the minimum wage in 2011 at nearly double the rate of real gdp growth , ensuring that the average household had more disposable income to spend .
but property prices have risen faster than wages and profits in manufacturing , causing the return on capital for a select few real-estate owners to grow faster than china ’ s gdp .
the same group has also benefited from the leverage implied by strong credit growth .
as a result , china ’ s top 1 % income earners are accumulating wealth significantly faster than their counterparts in the rest of the world – and far faster than the average chinese .
in fact , while the rise of china and other emerging economies has reduced inequality among countries , domestic inequality has risen almost everywhere .
the piketty framework highlights several drivers of this trend .
for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a sort of winner-take-all environment , in which the most technologically advanced actors have gained market share through economies of scale .
in particular , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global br anding , high- technology , and creative industries win big , with the global boom in tech stocks augm enting their gains .
the resulting concentration of revenue , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete .
the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings .
given that banks prefer lending to larger enterprises and borrowers with collateral , small and medium-size enterprises struggle to gain access to credit and capital .
another problem is that the low interest rates generated by advanced-country central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies have led to the “ dec ap it alization ” of long-term pension funds , thereby reducing the flow of retirement income into the economy .
in many emerging economies , including china , widespread fear of insufficient retirement income is fueling high household saving rates .
economists largely agree that this trend toward inequality is unsustainable , but they differ on how to curb it .
those on the right argue for more market-based innovation to create wealth , while those on the left argue for more state intervention .
in fact , both approaches have a role to play , particularly in china , where the government is pursuing a more market-oriented growth strategy but retains considerable control over many aspects of the economy .
china needs to strike a balance between policy- supported stability and market- driven progress .
in particular , policy and institutional factors have led to the under pricing of key resources , generating significant risk .
the vast workforce has driven down the price of labor , impeding the transition to a high-income , domes tic- consumption- driven growth model .
similarly , failure to account for environmental externalities has contributed to the under pricing of natural resources like coal , fueling excessive resource consumption and creating a serious pollution problem .
moreover , policies aimed at stabilizing the exchange rate and keeping interest rates low have caused capital and risk to become undervalued in large projects .
and local governments ’ effort to finance development by selling land to investors at artificially low prices has spurred massive investment in real-estate development , causing property prices to rise at un sustainably high rates .
given property ’ s role as the main form of collateral for bank loans , financial risk has risen sharply .
the government is now attempting to mitigate the risks that investors and local governments have assumed by allowing more interest - and exchange-rate flexibility .
but the transition must be handled carefully to ensure that property prices do not plummet , which would increase the ratio of non-performing loans – and possibly even trigger a major financial crisis .
in order to ensure long-term social stability , china must promote inclusive wealth creation , for example , by establishing strong incentives for innovation .
the rise of high-tech companies like huawei , tencent , and alibaba is a step in the right direction , though the fact that the most successful chinese tech companies are listed overseas , and are thus not available to mainland investors , is problematic . regulations and exchange controls prevent the retail sector from benefiting from new wealth creation .
with financial assets failing to bring adequate dividends or capital appreciation , many investors have switched to real estate as a hedge against inflation .
china ’ s leaders are already working to guide the transition to a growth model driven by domestic consumption and higher- value-added production .
but the challenge is more complex than that .
the new model – with the help of market forces , where and when appropriate – seeks to ensure that wealth is created sustainably and shared widely .
to succeed would fulfill the chinese dream .
failure would mean that inequality would continue to fester worldwide .
china ’ s subprime risks
hong kong – it is now widely accepted that the recent global financial crisis was actually a balance-sheet crisis .
long periods of negative interest rates facilitated the unsustainable financing of asset purchases , with high-risk mortgages weakening national balance sheets .
when liquidity in the key interbank markets dried up , the frag il ities were exposed – with devastating consequences .
today , the rapid expansion of chinese financial institutions ’ balance sheets – which grew by 92 % from 2007 to 2011 , alongside 78 % nominal gdp growth – is fueling predictions that the country will soon experience its own subprime meltdown .
is there any merit to such forecasts ?
the first step in assessing china ’ s financial vulnerability is to distinguish a solvency crisis , which can occur when firms lack sufficient capital to withstand an asset-price meltdown , from a liquidity crisis .
during the asian financial crisis of the 1990s , some countries suffered foreign-exchange crises , in which devaluation and high real interest rates de- capitalized banks and enterprises , owing to the lack of sufficient reserves to repay foreign-exchange debts .
in the case of japan ’ s asset-price collapse in 1989 , and again in the united states in 2008 , bank recapitalization and central-bank liquidity support restored market confidence .
the recently released chinese academy of social sciences ( c ass ) national balance sheet report suggests that china is unlikely to undergo a foreign-exchange or national insolvency crisis .
at the end of 2011 , the central government ’ s net assets amounted to cn¥ 87 trillion ( $ 14 trillion ) , or 19 2 % of gdp , of which cn¥ 33 trillion comprised equity in state-owned enterprises ( soes ) .
moreover , at the end of last year , china ’ s net foreign-exchange position totaled $ 2 trillion – 21 % of gdp – with gross foreign-exchange reserves totaling just under $ 4 trillion .
the concern is china ’ s rapidly increasing domestic debt , which currently stands at 2 15 % of gdp .
since 2008 , soes and so-called local-government financing platforms have been using loans to fund massive fixed- asset investments , while private-sector actors have been borrowing – often from the shad ow- banking sector – to finance investment in real-estate development .
this excessive dependence on credit stems from the lack of adequate funding and the relative under development of china ’ s equity markets , with market capitalization amounting to only 37 % of gdp , compared to 10 4 % of gdp in the us .
the debt held by non-financial enterprises amounts to 1 13 % of gdp in china , compared to 72 % in the us and 99 % in japan .
but , given that the largest enterprises are either state-owned or local-government entities , their debts are essentially domestic sovereign obligations .
with china ’ s total government debt/gdp ratio amounting to only 53 % – much less than america ’ s 80 % and japan ’ s 2 26 % – there is sufficient space to undertake debt- equity swaps to tackle the intern al- debt problem .
of course , china ’ s leaders will also need to pursue major fiscal reforms , including improved revenue- sharing between central and local governments .
in the longer term , the authorities must put in place stricter regulations to ensure that local-government infrastructure investments are sustainable and do not depend excessively on revenue from land sales .
in the interim , the burden of adjustment will fall largely on monetary policy , which will be particularly challenging given the structural “ tigh tness ” in liquidity in the more productive sectors .
from 2007 to 2011 , china ’ s money supply increased by 1 16 % , whereas its foreign-exchange reserves grew by 180 % .
the excess was m op ped up through statutory reserve requirements amounting to as much as 20 % of bank deposits .
as a result , large enterprises – mostly soes , which enjoy considerable financial subsidies and liquidity – accounted for 43 % of total bank loans in 2011 ; small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , which face financial repression , including higher borrowing costs and tight liquidity , accounted for only 27 % .
this highlights two fundamental structural imperatives .
first , large soes and local governments must be discouraged from over- investing , which undermines the rate of return .
second , more capital must be channeled toward smes and fa ster - growing regions , which are more likely to generate jobs and innovation .
in other words , interest-rate reforms must be pursued alongside capital- market reforms that boost access to credit by the more productive sectors .
china can not complete its transformation from an export-led economy to one driven by domestic consumption and services unless value creation through innovation exceeds value destruction from excess capacity .
in short , despite a strong national balance sheet and ample central-bank liquidity , china is confronting a localized subprime problem , owing partly to high reserve requirements .
one promising move is the central bank ’ s recent release of cn¥ 1 trillion in liquidity through direct lending to the china development bank for the reconstruction of sh an ty towns , fulfilling the need for socially inclusive investment .
unlike the us federal reserve , it has not purchased subprime mortgages .
the key to success will be to manage the sequence of liquidity injections and interest-rate reforms so that the effort to address local subprime debts does not trigger asset-price deflation , while reducing financial repression that cuts off funding to more productive sectors and regions .
if it manages to get these structural reforms right , china – and the rest of the world – will be able to avoid the consequences of a hard economic landing .
the dual drag on
hong kong – china ’ s economy is again facing the specter of a hard landing .
property bubbles , mounting local-government debt , and way ward shad ow- banking activities are generating considerable financial risk , complicating the government ’ s efforts to address rising labor costs , excessive credit , overwhelming pollution , rampant corruption , an un developed tax system , and rising international competition .
and additional risks seem to lur k at almost every turn .
any strategy for mitigating the threat of a sharp slowdown must account for the dual nature of china ’ s economy .
on the one hand , chinese cities are becoming increasingly modern and globally engaged .
indeed , china ’ s 17 most dynamic cities – which together account for 11 % of the population and about 30 % of gdp – have already reached high-income status , as defined by the world bank , and the country is set to overtake the united states as the world ’ s top e-commerce market .
on the other hand , half of china ’ s population remains rural , der iving a large share of income from agricultural activities .
according to master card , 25 % of consumer payments are still made in cash , implying that china ’ s informal economy remains much more robust than believed .
this du ality has positive implications for china ’ s economic prospects .
while its coastal manufacturing activities have fueled much of the economy ’ s growth over the last few decades , the country ’ s rural , in land economies will remain strong drivers of growth as domestic consumption rises .
in other words , china has an even larger and more diversified economic base than many realize – implying a degree of growth momentum that would be difficult to lose .
it helps that , with $ 3.8 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves and a large ( though declining ) current-account surplus , china ’ s economy does not depend on foreign saving and investment .
local-government liabilities and non-performing loans are thus a domestic problem , whose only real spillover effects would stem from debt- redistribution efforts .
monetary and fiscal tightening aimed at curtailing credit expansion runs the risk of undermining gdp growth and reducing chinese demand for commodities .
this would hurt commodity- exporting emerging economies , many of which are already suffering from capital flight , owing to the us federal reserve ’ s ongoing monetary-policy reversal .
in this du alistic environment , china must calibr ate its market-oriented reform strategy carefully to ensure that it does not create any new and unexpected systemic risks , while overcoming the vested interests that resist substantive reforms aimed at leveling the playing field .
achieving this will require that china address another , more problematic du alism in its economy : the two- ti ered credit system .
with the formal banking sector subject to strict controls on deposit and lending rates , large state-owned enterprises and local governments were the only entities that could access enough credit to finance large-scale investments like infrastructure projects .
after the 2008 global financial crisis weakened export growth , the private sector began to move toward non-tradable goods and services , particularly property .
this shift – together with the declining current-account surplus and massive infrastructure investment – put upward pressure on domestic interest rates .
while the authorities could keep official interest rates under control , un official rates began to rise ir repres sibly , fueling the rapid expansion of shadow banking .
easy credit caused property prices to sky rocket , from ¥ 2, 2 91 ( $ 3 74 ) per square meter , on average , in 2002 to ¥ 5 , 7 91 a decade later , as measured in 70 large and medium-size chinese cities .
the question now concerns the degree to which this increase reflected rising productivity and prosperity – as did comparable gains in newly industrialized economies like japan , hong kong , taiwan , and korea – rather than speculation motivated by easy credit .
given that china ’ s 17 top- performing cities are roughly one-third as productive as hong kong , where per capita gdp is three times higher , it is not surprising that their property prices amount to about one-third of hong kong ’ s .
but rapidly rising property prices in some of china ’ s less dynamic cities are leading to outward labor migration , effectively turning them into shin y ghost towns .
in pursuing interest-rate liberalization , china must unify formal and informal rates , which requires action at both the macro and micro levels .
specifically , china ’ s leaders must reform micro- institutions to facilitate the market- driven process of creative destruction , such as through institutionalized bankruptcy processes that help to eliminate ghost cities and failed real-estate projects , thereby minimizing the associated macroeconomic disruption .
furthermore , relying largely on tightening credit to limit risks also raises new complications .
while broader structural economic change requires tighter monetary policy and lower inflation , excessively tight monetary policy , given continued high credit demand , could disrupt the adjustment process .
in fact , the slowdown in money- supply growth – from roughly 25 % in 2009 to roughly 14 % today – has parall eled the shad ow- banking sector ’ s rapid expansion .
as of the end of 2012 , shadow banking accounted for 24 % of total credit , at interest rates 10-15 % higher than official rates .
this has hurt the real economy by increasing the cost of capital .
unless inefficient borrowers exit the market or declare bankruptcy , they will continue to disrupt resource allocation , crowding out more productive firms .
the key to merging interest rates thus lies in reforming the credit- allocation mechanism to provide more capital to well- performing projects and enforce hard budget constraints on poor - performing borrowers .
while this will inevitably trigger some defaults and erode the quality of banks ’ loan portfolios , the end result – a more balanced and healthy economy – will be more than worth it .
harnessing china ’ s competitive stre ak
hong kong – china ’ s state council recently unveiled a comprehensive blueprint for capital- market reform until 2020 , in which it identifies two key objectives : “ to support open , fair , and integral market processes , and to protect investors , particularly the legal rights of small investors . ”
achieving these goals , as the blueprint recognizes , will require policymakers to weigh market autonomy against state authority , innovation against stability , investor protection against cav eat emp tor , and the temptation of rapid reform against the need for pragmatism .
can it be done ?
from a policy perspective , the goal should be to strike a balance between competition ( which spur s growth-enhancing innovation but can also generate instability ) and cooperation ( which promotes long-term social cohesion but can also lead to stagnation ) .
in doing so , china ’ s leaders must account for three levels of competition : inter- enterprise competition , inter- sectoral competition , and competition among the interests of citizens , businesses , and the state .
the implementation of a competition framework for enterprises is a work in progress .
in 2008 , the government enacted an anti- monopoly law aimed at preventing anti- competitive or “ monopoly ” agreements among enterprises , minimizing abuse of market dominance , and blocking mergers and acquisitions that would eliminate or und u ly restrict competition .
but managing competition in a market that has three major players – state-owned enterprises ( soes ) and domestic and foreign private companies – is a complex task .
private-sector firms are frustrated with the privileges that soes enjoy , while foreign- owned enterprises complain that they are at a disadvantage vis-à-vis domestic companies .
the management of inter- sectoral competition is even more complicated .
but , more than a decade after china ’ s accession to the world trade organization , foreign banks ’ share of the chinese market stands at a min is cule 2 % – a reflection of chinese regulators ’ failure to create a level playing field .
the challenge is intensified by technological advances and regulatory arbitrage .
e-commerce platforms like alibaba have not only bre ached banks ’ payment business ; they have also begun to offer wealth - management products .
and regulatory arbitrage has fueled the emergence of shadow banking , which is competing actively with traditional financial institutions for wealth - management and lending business .
regulatory arbitrage arises from competition among central- government agencies for the authority to regulate – competition that often delays market reforms and institutional change , owing to agencies ’ unwillingness to accept one another ’ s authority .
for example , overlapping regulation by at least five agencies and ministries has delayed the development of china ’ s bond market considerably .
the best example of healthy competition in china is that which occurs among cities .
china has 2 87 pref ec ture- level cities , with a median population of 3.7 million and median per capita gdp of $ 5 , 800 .
six teen cities have already crossed the world bank ’ s threshold for high-income status , with annual per capita incomes of more than $ 1 2, 6 16 , and four – beijing , shanghai , guang zhou , and shenzhen – have global reach .
these cities hold the key to the ability of china as a whole to avoid the middle-income trap .
that should come as no surprise . the secret of china ’ s economic success since 1979 has been the easing of central- planning rules to empower cities , markets , and private businesses to experiment , innovate , and grow .
given the difficulty of identifying which of the old rules needed to be reformed or eliminated , the process depended on the delegation of central- government powers to local governments , which were better equipped to experiment with market rules to boost economic growth .
at the same time , in order to preserve the system ’ s stability and integrity , these efforts were accompanied by the centralization of fiscal authority and certain oversight powers .
this balance between horiz on tal competition and ver tical regulation was critical to promoting growth and dynamism in chinese cities .
but the balance has been far from ideal .
indeed , competition among cities – intensified by the large role that municip al- level gdp growth plays in determining local officials ’ career paths – went too far , creating destabilizing imbalances .
yes , local autonomy facilitated bold productivity-enhancing activities , such as the use of rural land for industry and commerce and the creation of public-private partnerships to finance major infrastructure projects ; private enterprises were thus able to seize market share from soes in the service and manufacturing sectors .
but cities ’ ha sty efforts to im itate one another ’ s growth models also led to overwhelming environmental pollution , mounting debt , excess infrastructure capacity , rising inequality , depletion of farmland , and rampant corruption , including administrative abuses that encro ached on citizens ’ property rights .
competi tion- fueled growth propelled china ’ s emergence as the world ’ s second-largest economy .
but it is unsustainable .
the imperative now is to rebalance competition to address the negative externalities of state and market activities that harm citizens ’ interests .
the central government ’ s recent removal of certain judicial powers from local governments , thereby strengthening protection of property rights , is an important step in this direction .
but it is not enough .
enabling the market to drive resource allocation , while ensuring a level playing field for all participants , will require the establishment of clear competition principles , possibly supported by a powerful “ competition commission . ”
no competition can work without clear , fair rules .
that is the real challenge facing china ’ s leaders today .
if they succeed , a high-income china will be only a matter of time .
re- governing china
beijing – this year ’ s china development forum in beijing revealed the clearest vision yet of how china ’ s leaders intend to deliver the “ chinese dream , ” which president xi jinping has described as “ national rejuven ation , improvement of people ’ s livelihoods , prosperity , construction of a better society , and military strengthening . ”
last november ’ s third plenum of the 18th central committee of the chinese communist party produced more than 3 30 major reforms in 60 areas for implementation by 2020 – a package of unprecedented scale , depth , and complexity .
orchestr ating china ’ s transformation from a manufactur ing - and export -based economic model to one driven by consumption and services – and that is inclusive , environmentally sustainable , and creates more than 13 million jobs annually – is a massive undertaking .
add to it the challenge of upholding financial and social stability – and accompl ishing all of this while managing one of the world ’ s largest bureaucracies – and the task ahead becomes truly min d- bo ggling .
consider the effort last summer to assess the government ’ s financial condition .
the national audit office had to mobilize 5 5 , 400 staff members to review not only the central government ’ s accounts , but also those of 31 provinces and autonomous regions , five central municipalities , 3 91 cities , 2, 7 78 coun ties , and 3 3 ,0 91 rural communities .
the investigation covered 6 2, 2 15 government departments and agencies , 7 , 170 local-government financing vehicles , 6 8 , 6 21 public finan ce- supported reporting units , 2, 2 35 public business units , and 14 , 2 19 other entities – responsible , altogether , for 7 30 ,0 65 projects and 2, 4 5 4, 6 35 items of debt .
clearly , public-sector governance in china is radically different from that in the west , where the rule of law , democratic elections , and free markets are structural norms .
and , though 35 years of major reforms have brought about considerable change , with the private sector now accounting for the bulk of job creation , there remains much to be done – exemplified in the fact that the state , especially local governments and state-owned enterprises , still command most of china ’ s credit resources .
one way to appreciate the complexity of china ’ s governance ecosystem is to examine the mat ri x of relationships among institutions , the ti ao ti ao ku ai ku ai – literally , “ lines and pieces . ”
ti ao ti ao refers to the ver tical lines of control from the central government through national ministries or agencies to local- level institutions . they include central planning concerning development and reform ; the nomination and promotion of officials to important posts in ministries , state-owned enterprises , and local governments at all levels ; and macroeconomic tools , particularly fiscal , monetary , exchange-rate , and regulatory policies .
ku ai ku ai refers to the lat eral , highly competitive relationships among regional entities , to which the central government delegates a certain amount of autonomy .
in order to achieve genuine stability , china ’ s leaders must strike a delicate balance between ti ao ti ao control and ku ai ku ai autonomy .
but this has proved difficult , with relaxation of ti ao ti ao often leading not just to rapid regional growth and improvements in local public services , but also to widening imbalances and a heightened risk of overheating , owing to pro-cyclical her ding behavior , such as excessive fixed- asset investment .
the government is then forced to re- impose central control abruptly , bringing about a sudden stop .
if china ’ s economy were a car , the country ’ s leaders would always be either flo oring the acceler ator or sl am ming on the bra kes .
with its latest set of reforms , china ’ s government is attempting finally to fin e- tune its approach .
the package centr alizes some responsibilities , such as managing resistance from vested interests , while expanding local-government autonomy in other areas , including procedures for licensing and planning approval .
with the creation of free-trade zones – which entail lower tariffs , reduced customs barriers , and less administrative intervention – the government is attempting to give market forces a decisive role in resource allocation .
this effort to ease unnecessary constraints on regional entities will lead to market and institutional innovations .
these innovations , together with increased transparency and the implementation of cutting-edge technologies , are likely to reduce rent-seeking and corruption , while boosting productivity and employment significantly .
the government ’ s recent decision to phase out the household registration ( hukou ) system will augment these gains further , as it gives workers and private business- owners alike the opportunity to choose where to live , work , and invest .
as china ’ s leaders explicitly recognized at the third plenum , the removal of arbitrary ti ao ti ao controls can enable cities and local communities to evolve according to their own comparative advantages .
but china ’ s gradual opening up will increasingly allow companies and individuals to cross national borders in search of more lucrative opportunities , complicating the country ’ s governance mat ri x further .
indeed , coping with global competition for markets , resources , talent , and respect will require a two- way interaction between chinese and global governance systems .
china ’ s leaders have already demonstrated that they understand the need to implement modern management techniques , and that doing so requires them to update and rec ali br ate the tools of central control on which they have long relied .
with the right adjustments , china ’ s governance system can effectively address market failures like air and water pollution , food safety , energy efficiency , and social inequality , while ensuring the country ’ s long-term prosperity .
this process is only beginning , but it is off to a strong start .
great cities and ghost towns
hong kong – many observers tend to regard the rise of un occupied modern “ ghost towns , ” funded through risk- laden local-government financing vehicles ( lg f vs ) , as symptoms of china ’ s coming collapse .
in 2012 , the venture capitalist william jan eway argued that economic development is a three- player game involving the state , private entrepreneurial innovation , and financial capitalism , with inevitable cyclical over shoots that create the conditions for the next wave of invention and output growth .
the united states had ghost towns and local bank bu sts once it began investing in railways , mining , and industrialization in the mid- nineteenth century .
but it experienced no systemic crisis that spilled over its borders .
without large-scale infrastructure investment , especially in transport , the productivity gains that enabled america ’ s emergence as an industrial power would have been impossible .
though the process included significant creative destruction , rapid economic growth offset losses resulting from excess capacity .
similarly , when viewed through the long lens of history , china ’ s ghost towns will prove to be po th ol es on the path to development .
china ’ s massive infrastructure investment , funded largely through lg f vs , will most likely be remembered for its critical contribution to the country ’ s economic modernization .
of course , the transl ation of infrastructure investment into economic progress is not guaranteed .
the new infrastructure – together with on- the- job training that enables chinese workers to manage it effectively – must boost the country ’ s productive capacity sufficiently to offset the value destruction from obsolete fixed assets and under employment .
in this sense , china ’ s prospects are promising .
as it stands , the total value of infrastructure investment in china amounts to only about 2 40 % of gdp , less than half of japan ’ s 5 51 % – and with a much younger population .
china ’ s capital stock remains below $ 10,000 per capita ; that figure is above $ 9 0,000 in the us and more than $ 200,000 in japan ( at 2011 prices ) .
moreover , roughly 1 % of china ’ s population – about 12 million people – is migr ating to cities each year .
un rel enting demand for modern , innovative infrastructure that supports citizens ’ livelihoods , improves energy efficiency , and minim izes pollution can not simply be ignored – especially given urbanization ’ s central role in driving economic modernization and productivity gains .
though lg f vs carry some intrinsic risks , stemming from relatively low levels of transparency and government supervision , they have been integral to china ’ s industrialization process so far .
indeed , they emerged in the early 1990s to enable shanghai and guangdong to upgrade their infrastructure in preparation for their industrialization drive .
both cities suffered from weak technical and institutional capacity and little foreign exchange or domestic credit .
by working with the world bank and the china development bank ( c db ) , shanghai and guangdong created an innovative institutional structure to facilitate the coordination of stakeholders to deliver specific infrastructure projects , employing the legal and accounting tools of modern corporations .
in other words , the lg f v is , at its core , a vehicle for local modernization .
this institutional innovation enabled the reconstruction of hundreds of chinese cities , connected by airports , highways , high-speed rail , and advanced telecommun ication systems .
supported by these structures and linkages , one-third of chinese cities have attained per capita gdp of more than $ 10,000 .
moreover , the original lg f vs were not subject to maturity mismatches , because they were funded through long-term c db loans , with local governments using the fees and taxes they accr ued from the completed infrastructure to cover operating costs and service their debt .
in this way , lg f vs also helped to create the network linking local markets to global value chains .
but , as is often the case , success led to excess .
massive government stimulus in the wake of the global financial crisis spurred local governments to take loans from chinese banks to realize dream infrastructure projects , with remote cities attempting to im itate urban show cases like shanghai or shenzhen .
in a sense , this was a positive development .
after all , leveling the infrastructure gap enlarg es the range of options from which people and companies can choose when deciding where to live or establish factories and offices .
but the infrastructure boom was underpinned by the belief that local governments would always have access to easy credit , cheap land , and rising demand .
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lg f vs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , which has caused their borrowing costs to rise and introduced new market-based challenges to the reform process .
while china ’ s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its land and fixed assets are worth some cn¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values were written down by half , local governments would remain solvent .
this leaves only the issue of debt servicing .
to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms to split revenues between central and local governments and enable local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds .
china ’ s ghost towns and local-government debts are not harb ing ers of doom . they are bu mps on the road to a developed economy , in which excesses will have to be resolved by the state or the market .
in fact , overcoming these challenges will make for a more resilient economy in the long run .
the coming class war
hong kong – the eigh teenth-century german military strategist carl von cl aus e witz defined war as the continuation of politics by different means , and , like the ancient chinese strategist sun tz u , believed that securing peace meant preparing for violent conflict .
as the world becomes increasingly tumultuous – apparent in the revival of military struggle in ukraine , continued chaos in the middle east , and rising tensions in east asia – such thinking could not be more relevant .
wars are traditionally fought over territory .
but the definition of territory has evolved to incorporate five domains : land , air , sea , space , and , most recently , cyberspace .
these dimensions of “ class war ” define the threats facing the world today .
the specific triggers , objectives , and battle lines of such conflicts are likely to be determined , to varying degrees , by five factors : creed , clan , culture , climate , and currency .
indeed , these factors are already fueling conflicts around the world .
religion , or creed , is among history ’ s most common motives for war , and the twenty-first century is no exception .
consider the proliferation of jihadist groups , such as the islamic state , which continues to seize territory in iraq and syria , and boko haram , which has been engaged in a brutal campaign of abduc tions , bombings , and murder in nigeria .
there have also been violent clashes between buddh ists and muslims in myanmar and southern thailand , and between islamists and catholics in the philippines .
the second factor – clan – is manifested in rising ethnic tensions in europe , turkey , india , and elsewhere , driven by forces like migration and competition for jobs .
in africa , artificial borders that were drawn by colonial powers are becoming untenable , as different tribes and ethnic groups attempt to car ve out their own territorial spaces .
and the conflict in ukraine mobil izes the long- simmering frustration felt by ethnic russians who were left behind when the soviet union collapsed .
the third potential source of conflict consists in the fundamental cultural differences created by societies ’ unique histories and institutional arrangements .
despite accounting for only one- eighth of the world ’ s population , the united states and europe have long enjoyed economic dominance – accounting for half of global gdp – and disproportionate international influence .
but , as new economic power houses rise , they will increasingly challenge the west , and not just for market share and resources ; they will seek to inf use the global order with their own cultural understandings and fram es of reference .
of course , competition for resources will also be important , especially as the consequences of the fourth factor – climate change – manifest themselves .
many countries and regions are already under severe water stress , which will only intensify as climate change causes natural disasters and extreme weather events like droughts to become increasingly common .
likewise , as forests and marine resources are depleted , competition for food could generate conflict .
this kind of conflict directly contradicts the promise of globalization – namely , that access to foreign food and energy would enable countries to concentrate on their comparative advantages .
if emerging conflicts and competitive pressures lead to , say , economic sanctions or the obstruc tion of key trade routes , the resulting balk anization of global trade would diminish globalization ’ s benefits substantially .
moreover , the social unrest that often accompanies economic strife could cause countries to frag ment into smaller units that fight one another over values or resources .
to some extent , this is already occurring , with iraq and syria spl inter ing into sectarian or tribal units .
since the global economic crisis , the expansionary monetary policies that advanced-economy central banks have pursued have caused large-scale , volatile capital flows across emerging-economy borders , generating significant instability for these countries and fueling accusations of “ currency wars . ”
the extra- territorial use of regulatory and tax powers – particularly by the us , which has the added advantage of issuing the world ’ s preeminent reserve currency – is reinforcing the view that currencies can be wiel ded as weapons .
for example , the us has effectively balk an ized global banking by requiring all foreign banks operating there to become subsidiary companies and requiring international banks with us- dollar clearing accounts to comply fully with us tax , regulatory , and even , to some degree , foreign policy ( for example , ref ra ining from trading with us enemies ) .
hefty fines imposed by us regulators for bre aching the rules – notably , the recent $ 8. 9 billion settlement by bnp par ib as – are already causing european banks to re- think their compliance costs and the profitability of operating in the us .
meanwhile , american courts have forced argentina into another national default .
but perhaps the strongest message is being sent via targeted sanctions on russia ’ s oil , finance , defense , and technology industries , as well as on russian officials .
with this approach , the us and its allies are sending a clear message to anyone who may disagree with us policy : avoid using the dollar and dollar-denominated bank accounts .
some financial activity has already been driven into the shadows , reflected in the use of bitcoin and other currencies that are beyond the reach of us regulators .
a recent example of the disaffected seeking an alternative to us leadership is the establishment of a new development bank and a contingent reserve arrangement by the brics ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) .
the problem for the us is that , in this case , the disaffected are five of the world ’ s major emerging economies , wielding combined resources that exceed those of the bretton wood institutions .
it is highly unlikely that brics bank transactions will be denominated in us dollars .
in a recent speech , us president barack obama declared that the question is not whether the us will lead , but how it will lead .
but , as creed , clan , culture , climate , and currency cause the world to become increasingly alienated from the us- centric international order , such declarations may be excessively optimistic .
indeed , in the coming class war , no one seems quite sure whom to follow .
ker mit ’ s bankers
hong kong – s es ame street ’ s ker mit the fro g once lamented that “ it ’ s not easy be in ’ green . ”
today , this sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy – only it is becoming green that is the problem .
last september , the intergovernmental panel for climate change warned that if the world sticks with “ business as usual , ” global temperatures may rise more than 4 °c – far beyond the 2°c increase that has been deemed “ safe . ”
this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to achieve a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 .
but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by considerable investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables .
indeed , the international energy agency estimates that nearly $ 1 trillion worth of investment will be needed annually between now and 2050 to put the world economy on a more sustainable path .
while that may seem like a lot of money , it is the equivalent of only 1 % of global gdp , and less than 0.3 % of global financial assets .
moreover , since 2007 , major central banks have proved that they can augment their balance sheets by more than $ 1 trillion annually , without triggering inflation .
in other words , the world can afford the transition toward a green economy .
nonetheless , last year , green investment amounted to only $ 2 54 billion – implying an annual shortfall of nearly $ 750 billion .
to bridge the gap , advanced-country governments are leveraging their limited public funds to catalyze private-sector investment .
at the same time , developing countries are rapidly increasing their contributions to green finance , with domestic clean-energy financing in non- oecd countries having surpassed oec d- country levels in 2008 .
but the problem remains that the current structure of markets impedes their ability to adjust to climate change .
what is really needed is not money , but the political will to correct market failure by bringing about fundamental shifts in the metrics , institutions , and policies that govern how investors evaluate economic activities .
the return on private capital ( profit and loss ) plus the return on “ social ” capital must be positive .
the current gdp metric ignores the negative externalities of fossil- fuel -based private activities , leading to overwhelming pollution and gross wast age of non- renewable natural resources .
without full cost accounting , some of the worst activities will continue to be immensely profitable .
a successful transition to a green economy will require a new set of metrics .
the good news is that some governments have already moved to establish a shadow cost for co2 emissions .
in the us , the “ social cost ” of carbon was raised from $ 24 to $ 37 per ton emitted .
public izing fin e- particul ate ( so-called pm 2.5 ) levels was critical to mobilizing widespread chinese public support for addressing air pollution .
similar metrics are now needed to measure other forms of natural capital destruction , such as deforestation , mar ine- re ef ble aching , waste water dis charge , and soil degradation .
once these metrics are established , they must be incorporated into international accounting standards for private and public financial statements .
some companies are already releasing annual reports with full details on their activities ’ social and environmental impact , and will eventually move toward fully integrated reporting .
but bringing about real change will require more than moral su asion .
policymakers must take advantage of the full range of tools available to them , including legislation , reporting guidelines , taxes , incentives , and public education about the costs of inaction .
financial regulators in emerging economies like bangladesh and china have already taken a step in the right direction , introducing rules to promote financial inclusion .
china ’ s green credit banking guidelines call upon financial institutions to consider the environmental risks in their loan portfolios .
finally , there needs to be an honest discussion on the merits – and limits – of current monetary policy and financial regulation .
central-bank subsidies like quantitative easing and near-zero interest rates should have increased the supply of low-cost financing for green projects .
instead , they have boosted the profits of ever-larger financial institutions , leaving credit to small and medium-size enterprises and long-term projects severely constrained .
the irony is that regulations aimed at strengthening financial stability tend to reward short-termism ( higher liquidity ) , adding risk- weights and costs to long-term projects – that is , most green investments .
regulators must recognize that if the real economy is unsustainable , no amount of bank reforms will protect people ’ s livelihoods , let alone the financial system .
adding a green- investment requirement of just 0.5 % would be sufficient to cover the annual financing gap .
the global financial crisis occurred because we ignored externalities – shadow prices and institutions – allowing instability and inequality to prolifer ate .
building a more stable , sustainable future requires getting policies , prices , and incentives right .
it will not be easy , as ker mit said , but the risk is that if we do not act , we get bo iled before we become green .
king coal ’ s climate challenge
washington , dc – coal is emerging as a major topic of conversation at the united nations climate-change negotiations currently taking place in warsaw – and rightly so .
indeed , it is a discussion that the world needs to have .
the latest findings of the intergovernmental panel on climate change conclude that we are quickly using up our carbon “ budget ” – the amount of carbon that we can afford to emit while still having a good chance of limiting global warming to 2º celsius .
according to the ipcc , keeping the global temperature increase from pre-industrial levels below this threshold – the recognized tipping point beyond which climate change is likely to get seriously out of control – requires that the world emit only about 1,000 gig at on n es of carbon ( g t c ) .
more than half of this amount was already emitted by 2011 .
when it comes to tolerable co2 emissions , coal is the budget bu ster .
just this week , a group of 27 prominent scientists , representing all major continents , issued a joint statement that explains that burning all known fossil-fuel reserves would produce about 3, 800 gig at on n es of co2 , or 1 ,0 53 g t c , with coal alone accounting for more than half .
simply put , if the world bur ns its known coal reserves using current technologies , it is likely to push global temperature rise far beyond 2 º c .
many governments and financial institutions recognize this .
in recent months , the world bank , the european investment bank , and the united states export- import bank have introduced policies that restrict financing of new coal-fired power plants unless they can capture and store their co2 emissions .
five nordic countries have joined the us treasury in ending public financing of new coal-fired power plants overseas , and others may soon follow suit .
and this fall , the us environmental protection agency proposed emissions standards for new power plants that would rule out conventional coal power – an important step that would cut carbon pollution and drive innovation .
likewise , china , concerned about the serious health costs linked to burning coal , is prohibiting new coal capacity in three coastal provinces under its newly adopted action plan on air pollution .
the chinese authorities have also introduced policies to reduce the proportion of coal in the country ’ s overall energy mix .
against this backdrop , the world coal association ( w ca ) is meeting this week , also in warsaw – in fact , just across the river from where negotiators are trying to forge the building blocks of a global climate agreement by 2015 .
the w ca is calling for the use of “ high- efficiency , low- emissions coal- combustion technologies ” to lower greenhouse-gas emissions from coal-fired power plants around the world .
but this approach would still consume too much of the co2 budget .
even the most modern and advanced conventional coal-fired power plants emit over 15 times more co2 per unit of electricity than renewable energy systems , and more than twice the amount of efficient gas- fired power stations .
and yet coal power is still going strong globally .
the world resources institute estimates that there are close to 1, 200 proposed coal-fired power projects around the world , with a total installed capacity of more than 1, 400 gig awat ts .
if built , the world would commit a large share of the remaining carbon budget to high- carbon infrastructure with a lif esp an of 40- 50 years .
according to the international energy agency , the current trend in coal use is in line with a scenario that would lead to a 6 º c temperature rise .
this is a future that would radically and irre versi bly change life on earth as we know it .
this is why the oecd secretary general has suggested that it is time for a moratorium on the construction of conventional coal-fired power plants .
governments have far more cost-effective electr ic ity- generation technologies at their disposal .
renewable energies like solar and wind are already competitive with fossil fuels in many parts of the world , and they can be scaled up rapidly .
moreover , most economic models do not account for the externalities related to coal and carbon pollution .
for example , a recent report by truc ost estimates that coal-fired power generation worldwide may be responsible for around $ 1 trillion of damage due to climate change and air pollution .
many coal-fired power plants would be uncompetitive if they were required to intern alize these costs .
of course , coal continues to offer millions of people a reliable source of electricity – and the transition to low-carbon technologies will not happen overnight .
we need to expand access to these technologies rapidly , while helping people whose livelihoods depend on the coal industry .
while we need to be passionate about climate change , we must also be pragmatic about how we address it .
but so must the coal industry .
participants at the w ca meeting this week should commit to additional measures that will help ensure that emissions are kept within safe limits .
that would help to show the world that the coal industry truly understands the scientific implications of current energy- use patterns , and that it is willing to assume more responsibility for combating climate change .
we need people on both sides of the v ist ula river to do their part to build a fair and ambitious universal climate agreement by 2015 .
let ’ s roll up our sle ev es together and plot a viable pathway to a safe and effective low-carbon economy .
an earthquake in chinese politics ?
beijing – now that the after shocks from the great sichuan earthquake appear to have dissip ated , it is time to ask what shocks , if any , the earthquake delivered to china ’ s political system .
has the qu ake given birth to some new , positive political force that will accelerate reform ?
it has happened before .
after all , dramatic political changes – the fall of the “ gang of four ” and deng xiaoping ’ s consolidation as china ’ s supreme leader – did follow shortly after the devastating tang sh an earthquake in 1976 .
given the sharp contrast between premier wen jiabao ’ s caring attitude during the earthquake and president hu jintao ’ s mediocre political performance , some people could not help but imagine that the earthquake may have tipped the balance at the communist party ’ s highest levels , pushing the liberal forces represented by wen to the center of power .
but this is naive .
unlike 30 years ago , no strong force for political reform now exists in china ’ s vast bureaucratic system .
back then , mao ’ s cultural revolution had forced large numbers of his revolutionary com r ades onto a reformist path .
in today ’ s china , the overwhelming majority of bureaucrats like the status quo and have enough resources to protect themselves .
although wen has won popular support through his ti reless efforts for earthquake victims , he remains isolated in official circles .
and , although hu can barely hide his mediocr ity , the bureaucrats are un concerned .
after all , they don ’ t want someone controlling them who is both able and serious .
but the sichuan earthquake was not completely irrelevant to china ’ s political progress .
wen , who had been bo gged down by the bureaucracy , had been seeking to counter it by expanding the media ’ s openness and transparency .
he had sought to take advantage of the beijing olympics to give the foreign media unprecedented freedom , but the bureaucrats succeeded in reversing his decision .
the earthquake gave wen an unexpected second opportunity .
he used television and his outstanding performance to prove that modern media and information tools can curb china ’ s bureaucracy .
this precedent will not be easy to roll back , and will have a far-reaching positive influence on china ’ s political progress .
the earthquake , together with the media transparency that accompanied it , has made the bureaucrats more accountable .
thousands of people , including nearly 10,000 school children , whose parents will not be easily plac ated , lost their lives .
millions of dis possessed people must be re- hous ed in a process that will last for several years .
bureaucrats must not be allowed to spend the huge donations collected and state relief funds al lo tted in an arbitrary manner .
as a result , a new political culture conducive to accountability may have a realistic opportunity to grow .
but this does not mean that someone will emerge from the party with the courage and ability to assume bold political leadership .
in fact , i believe that china ’ s future leaders , are more likely to come from china ’ s burgeoning , but still limited , civil society than from the bureaucracy .
although the party uses various means to suppress their development , the sichuan earthquake demonstrated that it has failed to eliminate ngos as a social force .
the qu ake gave them an opportunity to be seen , and an unprecedented number of people had a chance to perceive this nascent civil society as a positive force that serves their own interests .
there is an even greater silent force which may produce a new generation of political leaders : the rapidly growing army of christian believers , now estimated at 20 million .
with a population of 1.3 billion , china has no lack of people with leadership potential , and i believe that more and more of this talent is situ ated outside the party bureaucracy in ngos , startup enterprises , philanthropy , and even mis sion ary work .
in today ’ s mostly closed environment , they mostly lack awareness of their political skills and vision .
a more open and transparent public environment will help awak en their sense of political mission .
yet we are left to ask : when will the time for major political change come ?
wen jiabao wrote recently in sichuan that “ more hardship will ar ouse the country , ” evidently believing that the chinese may still need to suffer further in order to realize political progress .
that may be true , but i also believe that a new generation of political leaders can grow up in a more open information environment .
and , in any coming showdown , we must hope that all leaders will refuse to use innocent people ’ s lives as bargaining chips .
an economic agenda for italy
milan – at the end of this month , italian voters will choose their next government , from which they expect jobs and a more level economic playing field – and from which italy ’ s european partners expect structural reforms and fiscal prob ity .
what should the new government ’ s economic-policy agenda be ?
to reduce public debt , which stands above 120 % of gdp , while minimizing painful adjustments , italy needs economic growth – something that has elu ded policymakers in recent years .
indeed , italy ’ s average annual gdp growth rate since joining europe ’ s economic and monetary union in 1999 has been an anemic 0.5 % , well below the eurozone average of nearly 1.5 % .
in the four years since the global financial crisis struck , the growth rate fell to - 1.2 % , compared to the eurozone average of - 0.2 % , and it is expected to remain negative this year .
the new government ’ s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’ s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect .
this requires increased investment in innovation and human capital .
from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd .
since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’ s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries .
in the last decade , italy ’ s share of global exports dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
persistently weak labor- productivity growth has created a situation in which unit labor costs do not fall , even if real wages remain stagnant or decline .
indeed , despite a 1.3 % drop in real wages in 2011 , unit labor costs remained unchanged .
italy ’ s new leaders must address this situation by decoupling labor ’ s contribution to productivity growth from that of capital and total factor productivity .
according to the oecd , lower regulatory costs and more efficient public administration ( building upon measures introduced by the previous government , led by mario monti ) could add 0. 3- 0.4 % to average annual gdp growth by 2020 .
likewise , labor-market reform , improved education , and enhanced human capital could contribute an additional 4 % to gdp growth in the next decade .
moreover , italian policymakers should strive to boost the female labor-force participation rate , which , at 49 % , is one of the lowest in the oecd .
doing so would raise per capita income by 1 % annually through 2030 .
at the same time , fiscal adjustment remains essential to italy ’ s short- and long-term stability .
italy ’ s new leadership must sustain this progress .
despite positive developments , the road ahead is bumpy .
navigating it will require italy to retain its credibility with other european union member states and international investors .
the new prime minister will need to persuade germany , financial markets , and the european council that italy is a reliable partner .
the ability to refinance government debt and keep costs down is essential to strengthening public finances and boosting gdp growth .
furthermore , attracting more direct investment is crucial , given that capital inflows , while recovering , remain 30 % below their pre-crisis level ; with outflows exceeding inflows , italy has become a net capital exporter .
“ selling ” italy in europe should entail more than photo opportunities with other leaders in brussels and the occasional road show to financial institutions in london .
italy ’ s leaders should engage actively in commercial diplomacy , using the country ’ s emb assi es and trade agencies to promote italy globally , while working to build strong bilateral relations with other eu members , particularly southern countries like spain .
at the same time , the new leaders need to “ sell ” europe in italy , where euro- skepticism is rampant .
according to the pew research global attitudes project , only 30 % of italians view the euro positively .
in the country ’ s wealthier north , where average per capita income , at € 30,000 ( $ 40 ,500 ) , approaches that of germany , people are questioning the rationale of eu membership .
the costs are evident , they argue , but what are the benefits ?
meanwhile , fears of structural decline perv ade the country .
the crisis has lasted for a long time , and people are tired .
unemployment has risen to a record 1 1.2 % , with 35 % of young people jobless .
and the tax burden , which has exceeded 40 % of gdp since 1990 , now stands at almost 43 % of gdp .
a scandinavian level of taxes would be bearable if public services did not remain inferior to those offered in scandinavia .
for example , per capita health-care spending in sweden , denmark , and finland exceeds $ 3,000 , compared to only $ 2, 300 in italy , where households must contribute roughly 20 % of total health-care spending .
moreover , italy spends around 4.5 % of gdp on education , while the scandinavian countries spend more than 6 % of gdp .
as a result , italian students ’ scores in the program for international student assessment are significantly lower than those of their counterparts in many other oecd countries .
italy ’ s new government will have to display leadership and vision to guide the economy toward stable growth , avert a race to the bottom , and stem growing social tension .
most important , economic renewal depends on the next government ’ s willingness and ability to address the institutional weaknesses that have made concerted action increasingly urgent .
an energy tax for europe
george w. bush ’ s disastrous war in iraq has put europe in a bind .
the united states long has been europe ’ s protec tor .
now , because of a war it wanted no part of , europe finds its security undermined .
chaos in iraq has empowered iran – a much more dangerous country for europe than iraq ever was .
and , with america bo gged down in iraq , russian president vladimir putin has resurrec ted soviet- style bullying tactics .
would russia otherwise have dared to threaten to re- direct its nuclear missiles at european cities ?
high crude oil prices make it easier for iran to build nuclear weapons and for russia to use energy blackmail to threaten europe .
but europe can fight back .
by imposing a stiff tax on energy consumption , europeans would reduce both consumption of energy and its price in world markets , in turn cutting the flow of funds to russia and iran .
because crude oil is priced in us dollars , and the dollar has depreciated against the euro , european consumers have gotten off relatively easy from rising energy prices .
so an energy tax roughly equal to the euro ’ s 33 % appreciation in recent years would be about right .
europeans might be forgiven for thinking that the americans , who pumped up oil prices in the first place with their military mis adventure in iraq , should be the ones who “ pump it down ” with an energy tax .
but , with a “ texas oil man ” in the white house , it won ’ t happen .
perhaps after 2008 , the politics in america will change in favor of an energy tax , but such a tax is needed now .
besides , given the strength of environment alism in europe , the issue is tail or- made for europeans to take the lead .
moreover , europeans do not narrowly equ ate national security with military spending .
they know that confis c ating the check books of russia and iran would probably make the world a lot safer than building another submarine or aircraft carrier .
indeed , an energy tax would not only effectively counter the argument that europeans are “ free rid ers ” when it comes to defense ; it would be tantamount to defense leadership .
still , with the amount of real resources transferred to their governments already high , europeans might bal k at a further increase .
that is why the energy tax must be imposed as a tax substitution , with income or payroll taxes simultaneously reduced to keep real resource transfers to government at a constant level .
this would increase economic growth as well as strengthen national security .
critics who worry about the cost of the energy tax have not thought about tax substitu tions .
they also do not seem to realize that an energy tax is a much cheaper way for europe to protect itself from iran and russia than alternative means , such as a defense buildup .
europe currently lacks military muscle because it made a decision a half-century ago to be protected by the us and devote the saved resources to building up its welfare state .
this strategy – which worked well for decades – always carried the risk that at some point america ’ s resources might be tied up elsewhere , leaving europe under- protected .
that risk materialized with the iraq war .
but europeans are showing little taste for increased defense spending , iraq or no iraq .
even france ’ s new president , nicolas sarkozy – thought by many to be a pro- american foreign policy haw k – is backing away from his campaign promise to maintain defense spending at 2 % of gdp .
in a recent speech to the french defense industry , sarkozy conspicuously failed to repeat the pledge , instead warning that he soon might cut france ’ s defense budget .
according to a respected defense industry publication , sarkozy changed his mind after his party ’ s small er- than- anticipated victory in june ’ s parliamentary election .
the reason europeans are reluctant to increase defense spending is expense .
cutting welfare spending – where the big money is – would be painful .
sol em n promises made over the years would have to be broken ( people would not get the social services that they paid for with a lifetime of high taxes ) , lives would be shor tened ( less money for hospitals and nur sing homes ) , and overall hardship increased .
even economic growth will not prevent a tradeoff between defense and welfare spending for europeans .
fifty years of defense dependence on the us has created a powerful “ peace industry ” in europe whose primary business is to fight defense spending too th and nail .
a counterweight to the “ peace crowd ” may be new migrants from eastern europe , for whom cuts in social services would break no promises , and for whom job availability and wage levels are more important .
but it will take some time before the new migrants gain decisive political influence , and the problems of iran and russia for europe require immediate attention .
in short , europeans will not allow bush ’ s iraq war to become a war on their welfare state .
what makes the energy imposed as a tax substitution tax particularly attractive as a defense measure is that it leaves the welfare state intact while making europe safer , greener , and richer .
why wait ?
a new anti-semitism
these are violent times .
some believe that we are experiencing a new kind of conflict : “ culture wars , ” such as those between sunni and shiite muslims or tribal groups in africa and asia , or indeed islamists and westerners .
however , the deeper reasons for some of these conflicts may well be more traditional .
belonging to a particular cultural group is merely a pretext for battles between the winners and losers of globalization .
ruthless leaders mobilize dis oriented followers .
particularly the losers , often represented by young men with no future to look forward to , can be induced to take even suicidal action against the alleged enemy .
perhaps one should not be surprised that at such a time , the oldest of our ugly ­– indeed , deadly – resentments , anti-semitism , is re- emerging from the shadows .
its comeback takes the classical form of attacks on individuals , like the recent killing of a young je w in france , or of dis fig uring symbolic places , like cem eter ies and syn agog ues .
but there is also a more general sense of hostility to all things jewish .
one would have thought that anti-semitism died forever with the holocaust ; but it did not .
there are those who deny that the holocaust ever took place , or that it did in its all- too- well- documented manner .
the den iers range from second- rate historians like david ir ving to apparently popular politicians like iran ’ s recently elected president , mahmoud ahmadinejad .
the evidence of what nazi germany did is so powerful that those who deny it can probably be dealt with even without putting them in prison and thereby drawing more attention to them than they deserve .
the more worrisome source of anti-semitism is different and justifies speaking of a new anti-semitism .
it has to do with israel .
to be sure , america is the first name in anti-western resentment .
but its second name is israel , the only successful modern country in the middle east , which is also highly militarized , an occupying power , and ruthless in defense of its interests .
it is difficult to exagger ate the strange sentiment in the west which one might call palestine roman ticism .
intellectuals like the late edward said gave voice to it , but it has many followers in the united states and europe .
palestine roman ticism glor ifies the palestinians as the victims of israel ’ s rule , points to the treatment of israeli palestinians as at best second- class citizens , and cites the many incidents of oppression in the occupied territories , including the effects of israel ’ s “ security fence . ”
implicitly or explicitly , people take the side of the victims , contribute by sending money to them , declare even suicide bombers legitimate , and move ever further away from support for and defense of israel .
of course , it is true that in theory one can oppose israel ’ s policies without being anti-semitic .
after all , there are enough critics of israel ’ s policies among israelis .
jews outside israel feel that they have to defend – right or wrong – the country that , after all , is their ultimate hope of security .
this makes their friends hesitate to speak up for fear of being painted into not just an anti- israel , but also an anti-semitic corner .
the defen siveness of jews and the uneasy silence of their friends mean that the stage of public debate is open for those who actually are anti-semitic , though they con fine themselves to anti- israel language .
anti-semitism is disgu sting in whatever form it arises .
this is true also for other kinds of group hatred , but the holocaust makes anti-semitism unique , because it is an emotion complicit in the near annihil ation of an entire people .
the new anti-semitism , however , can not be fought successfully by education and argument in the rest of the world alone .
it is linked to israel .
if one belongs to a generation that regarded israel as one of the great achievements of the twentieth century , and admired the way in which the country provided a proud home for the persecuted and down tro d den , one is particularly concerned that it may now be at risk .
a new asian security const ellation
new delhi – leading members of the governments of india and south korea recently met to begin a new “ strategic partnership . ”
they are not alone in doing so , for across asia , a new security architecture is being constructed , seemingly piecemeal .
how asia ’ s geopolitical landscape will evolve over the coming decades is not easy to foresee .
but it is apparent that an increasingly assertive china is unwit tingly reinforcing america ’ s role in asia , restoring us primacy as the implicit guarantor of security and stability in the region .
there are at least four possible asian security scenarios for the years and decades ahead .
the first is the rise of a sino- centric asia .
china seeks a multipolar world but a unipolar asia .
by contrast , the us desires a unipolar world but a multipolar asia .
a second scenario is that the us remains asia ’ s principal security anchor , with or without a third possibility : the emergence of a const ellation of asian states with common interests working together to ensure that asia is not unipolar .
finally , asia could come to be characterized by several resurgent powers , including japan , india , vietnam , indonesia , and a re unified korea .
of the four scenarios , the first has caused the greatest unease .
china ’ s neighbors are increasingly anxious about its growing power and assertiveness .
while china ’ s rulers aspire to shape a sino- centric asia , their efforts to intimidate smaller neighbors hardly make china a credible candidate for asian leadership .
after all , genuine leadership can not come from raw power , but only from other states ’ consent or tacit acceptance .
if leadership could be built on br ute force , school yard bul lies would be class presidents .
in any event , china ’ s power may be vast and rapidly growing , but it lacks the ability to compel .
in other words , china does not have the capability to r out any rival militarily , let alone enforce its will on asia .
that fact has , however , done little to all ay fears in the region .
with its defense spending having grown almost twice as fast as its gdp , china is now beginning to take the glo ves off , confident that it has acquired the necessary muscle .
for example , china now includes the south china sea in its “ core ” national interests , on a par with taiwan and tibet , in order to stake a virtually exclusive claim to military operations there .
indian defense officials have reported a rising number of chinese military incursions across the 4 ,0 5 7- kilome ter himalayan border .
as china seeks to translate its economic clout into major geopolitical advantages in asia , a country that once boasted of “ having friends everywhere ” finds that its growing power may be inspiring a we , but that its actions are spurring new concerns and fears .
which states will accept china as asia ’ s leader ?
six decades of ruthless repression has failed to win china acceptance even in tibet and xinjiang , as the tibetan and u igh ur revolts of 2008 and 2009 att ested .
leadership entails more than the possession of enormous economic and military power . it demands the power of ideas that can galvanize others .
such power also serves as the moral vene er to the assertiveness often involved in the pursuit of any particular cause or interest .
the us and its allies won the cold war , for example , not so much by military means as by spreading the ideas of political freedom and market capitalism to other regions .
in the words of the strategic analyst stanley a. we iss , this “ helped su ck the life blood out of communism ’ s global appeal , ” making it incapable of meeting the widespread yearning for a better and more open life .
china has shown itself adept at asser tively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of- power geopolitics . but , in order to displace the us and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests or contain potential rivals .
most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of values and ideas ?
in the absence of an answer to that question , china ’ s overly assertive policies have proven a diplomatic boon for the us in strengthening and expanding american security arrangements in asia .
south korea has tightened its military alliance with the us , japan has backed away from a move to get the us to move its marine air base out of okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer to the us .
in terms of power- projection force capabilities or the range of military bases and security allies in asia , no power or combination of powers is likely to match the us in the next quarter-century .
but , while america ’ s continued central role in asia is safe , the long-term viability of its security arrangements bo ils down to the credibility of its security assurances to allies and partners .
america ’ s readiness to stand by them when the game gets rough will determine the strength and size of its security- alliance system in asia in the years ahead .
the third and fourth scenarios can unfold even if the us remains the principal security anchor for asia .
a number of asian countries have already started building mutually beneficial security cooperation on a bilateral basis , thereby laying the groundwork for a potential web of inter locking strategic partnerships .
a const ellation of asian states linked by strategic cooperation , in fact , has become critical to help institute power stability in the region .
a new bargain for un reform
the united nations is torn apart by internal tensions .
no sooner was the controversy over the creation of a human rights council satis factor ily resolved than a new battle has erupted .
the united states is pressing for administrative reforms and threatening to cut off funding if the reforms are not forthcoming .
the secretary general has submitted a reasonable reform plan , but a majority of un member states , acting together as the so-called g- 77 , are bal king , because they regard it as another step in reducing the authority of the general assembly relative to the security council .
in particular , they object to the plan ’ s proposal to give increased powers and responsibilities to the secretary general , whose selection is effectively in the hands of the security council ’ s five permanent members , which wield veto power .
many un members , believing that power within the un has been shifting from the general assembly , resist giving up what they regard as its last v esti ge : control over the budget through the work of the assembly ’ s fifth committee .
in practice , the fifth committee has exercised the kind of micro- management over personnel and expenditure that ought to be exercised by the secretary general if the un is to operate effectively and to have a staff which is up to the challenges facing the organization .
this is the basis of america ’ s insistence on administrative reforms .
there is an urgent need to find a way out of this impasse .
failure of the current proposal would mean an effective end to all efforts to reform the un , with disastrous consequences for people across the world who depend on the aid provided by the un development program , the security provided by the un ’ s numerous peacekeeping operations , or the myriad other services rendered by un agencies .
the path to a satisfactory resolution is clear : give the general assembly a greater role in the selection of the secretary general so that members would be deleg ating powers to an authority of their own choosing .
this solution would not only permit the much-needed administrative reforms to be implemented ; it would also bring clarity and transparency to a process that is in great need of improvement .
after all , the un charter provides that “ the secretary-general shall be appointed by the general assembly upon the recommendation of the security council . ”
the original concept was that the two bodies would reach a consensus on a candidate .
in practice , however , the five permanent members now agree on a candidate , and their decision is rub ber- st amped first by the security council and then by the general assembly .
real discussions about a new secretary general are currently being conducted in secrecy among the permanent five , adding to the frustration of other un members , including large powers that have been seeking without success to en large the security council .
to achieve the reforms of the budget process that it wants , the us will need to lead the way in persuading the other permanent members of the council to give the general assembly a greater role in the process .
this might be done in several ways .
the security council might agree to recommend several candidates from which the general assembly would select one .
alternatively , the general assembly might propose several candidates to the security council , from which the council would choose one to refer back to the assembly for approval .
either way , the selection process would benefit from greater transparency .
for example , the general assembly should hold public hearings in which candidates are interviewed , thereby greatly enhancing the stature of the candidate who is eventually selected .
such proposals , if accepted , would help resolve the current dispute to everyone ’ s satisfaction .
indeed , they could make the un stronger than it has ever been .
a new dawn for chinese journalism ?
a remarkable incident has emboldened chinese journalists .
earlier this year , the government suspended publication of the newspaper bing di an weekly , provoking unprecedented open protest , which received extensive media coverage worldwide .
even more surprisingly , the government , under the pressure of public opinion , has allowed bing di an to resume publication .
the edit or- in- chief and deputy edit or- in- chief were sacked , but the open questioning of the legitimacy of the government ’ s authority to regulate journalism is bound to have a profound impact .
foreign observers are prone to associate the bing di an incident with other recent crack downs on china ’ s mass media , and to conclude that chinese journalism freedom is hopeless under the present autocratic regulation .
undeniably , there has been no significant change in the government ’ s system of journalism ’ s regulation since china adopted its “ open door ” policy almost 30 years ago .
on the contrary , it has become more rigorous and covert .
but i still have faith that subtle changes are occurring .
a prerequisite of effective control of the media is that the controlled accept the control ler ’ s ideology .
after 1949 , the communist party cultivated a stable of “ theoretical experts ” and other ideological servants to write lengthy articles propag ating “ marxism and mao zedong thought . ”
but nowadays , such writers are hard to find , and their work is received by readers with mockery and sar cas m .
in fact , the central propaganda department ’ s ideological control can be maintained only through internal notic es and telephone calls , which are widely scor ned .
more importantly , even the regulators themselves have ceased to believe in obsolete and rigid doctr ines .
i recently met an official working for a provincial department of propaganda and was impressed by his bold and straightforward comments on current affairs .
for their part , producers of news have long since ceased to believe that news is propaganda .
i started my career with china youth daily in 1979 and have experienced the whole process of china ’ s opening up and re formation .
our generation of chinese journalists broke from traditional communist ideas about journalism by the mid- 1980 ’ s through extensive reading of western journalism .
younger journalists have thus been exposed to western journ alistic ideas from the very beginning .
indeed , western works are taught as “ models for writing ” to journalism students in china ’ s universities .
this is a crucial change , and it is the fundamental reason for an increasing number of genuine news items and comment aries in china ’ s media today .
market pressure has also been important in pushing chinese media to embrace change .
contrary to foreign perceptions , only a handful of chinese media – for example , people ’ s daily , gu ang ming daily , and the economic daily – still live on government funds .
china central television relies mainly on its advertising income , with only a symbolic fraction of its massive budget covered by the government .
whether most media out let can survive is thus solely dependent on their market success .
to be sure , political information remains rig or ously controlled , which puts a premium on “ harm less ” recre ational , entertainment , and sports information – the reporting of which is basically free .
this has resulted , in the short run , in an embrace of low journ alistic standards .
but many metropolitan newspapers that once thr ived on inf o tainment have seen their circulation fall in recent years .
sooner or later , readers will start to buy newspapers that can truly inform them and give voice to their opinions .
in fact , it is these tablo ids , responding to market pressure , that have started to take on responsibility as public watch dogs .
on many occasions in recent years , they have been the first to break sensitive news .
as a result , mainstream media are being marginalized , and the previously marginalized media are becoming mainstream .
thus , even without any change in the current system of regulation , extensive coverage of disasters , judicial abuses , and citizens ’ pursuit of their statutory rights , along with the questioning of policies from public perspectives , is now common .
for example , reporting by the south metropolitan daily led to the abolition of an outdated housing ordin ance issued by the state council .
ca i j ing magazine ’ s continuous reporting on s ars enabled the chinese public to learn the truth about this epidemic .
the bing di an weekly of china youth daily published an article by taiwanese writer long y ing ta i on taiwan ’ s democratic development .
such progress is slow and full of frustrations , for it reflects the incremental evolution of the system .
but it is nonetheless real progress , indicating the growing influence of the chinese media and pointing to china ’ s becoming a country of “ free expression ” .
according to an old chinese saying , “ a just cause enjoys abundant support , while an unjust cause finds scant support . ”
a “ just cause ” re sides in people ’ s hearts .
without the hearts of news producers – or , increasingly , of cen sors – the seemingly formidable edi f ice of journ alistic regulation will , sooner or later , collapse like the berlin wall .
a new deal for fragile states
paris – today , roughly one-quarter of the world ’ s population lives in conflict- affected and fragile states .
despite vast sums of money spent aiding such states over the last 50 years , armed conflict and violence continue to b light the lives of millions of people around the world .
i experienced firsthand the need for a new approach in 2004 in sri lanka .
within the first two months of the devastating tsunami that struck that december , close to 50 heads of state and foreign ministers visited the island .
each came with their own programs , their own civil-society organizations , and their own television cre ws .
few came with any deep understanding of the dynamics of the political conflict between militant tam ils and the sri lan kan state .
big mistakes were made , fueling further violence .
our major challenge today is to move away from the model of partnership according to which priorities , policies , and funding needs are determined in donor capitals and development partners ’ headquarters .
conflict- affected states need to be able to determine their own dest in ies .
we should establish models of post-conflict transition like the one advocated by the g 7 + , a group of eigh teen fragile states .
the model is simple : countries assess their own situation , using tools that they develop and that are appropriate to the context , in order to formulate a vision and a plan to consolidate peace and achieve prosperity .
this may sound like pie in the sky , but we have already ta sted it in africa , where sierra leone ’ s agenda for prosperity 201 3- 2017 and the liberia vision 2030 exemp lify the potential of such programs .
progress on meeting national priorities such as peace consolidation , expanding access to justice , or increasing security is monitored locally .
using local systems and capacities , it turns out , can strengthen them .
the “ new deal for engagement in fragile states , ” which builds on a series of international commitments regarding aid and development , and was endorsed at the at the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness in bus an , south korea in 2011 , proposes just such a model .
it enshr ines what matters most in building peaceful states and societies : commitments – the peace-  and state- building goals – to improve how national and international partners engage in conflict- affected and fragile contexts .
the new deal recognizes what the history of peace- building teaches us : national leadership and ownership of agendas are key to achieving visible and sustainable results .
as kos ti man ibe n ga i , south sudan ’ s finance minister , has put it , “ nothing about us without us . ”
in many conversations with south sudan ’ s president , sal va ki ir , we have discussed setting out a short list of clear priorities for the new state .
but such goals are meaningful only if a fragile state ’ s partners are ready to accept the lead from a capital like ju ba rather than from their own headquarters .
more than 40 countries and institutions have endorsed the new deal way of working , committing themselves to building better partnerships – and to investing the required resources and political capital .
this is why the new deal model is innovative ; it creates political support around issues that need to be addressed if countries are to make the transition from conflict and fragility to peace and stability .
supporting inclusive political dialogue and ensuring that conflict is resolved through peaceful means are the highest priorities , as are security , access to justice , and a dynamic private sector that generates sufficient job opportunities .
moreover , many fragile states are rich in natural resources , and must establish transparent resource management – aimed at curbing corruption and controlling illicit flows of money and goods – in order to raise the revenues needed to deliver services .
a focus on these processes would ensure that fragile states take the lead and the responsibility .
as partners , we must accept this national leadership .
after haiti ’ s catastrophic earthquake in 2010 , the country was dubbed “ the republic of ngos . ”
unable to create conditions in which haiti ans themselves could take the lead in rebuilding their country , haiti ’ s external partners undermined the establishment of a functioning internal governance system .
so , how can we translate our commitments and priorities into better lives for people who are affected by conflict and fragility ?
oecd countries need to lead by example and meet the commitments that they have made .
our partners , through groupings like the g 7 + , must continue to demand the changes in policies and practices that have been promised .
as the millennium development goals ’ 2015 end date approaches , promotion of peace , security , and non-violent conflict resolution continues to be vitally important , and must be fully integrated into any future development agenda .
recently , the members of the international dialogue on peace building and state building , the high-level political forum that produced the new deal , met in washington , dc , to assess our progress in changing how we work and in implementing the new deal commitments .
they agreed to the washington communiqué , which urg es development partners , g 7 + countries , and civil-society organizations to intensify their efforts to use the new deal to deliver concrete results on the ground , and calls for a post-2015 development agenda that recognizes the universal importance of peace-  and state- building .
ultimately , our progress depends on the resolve of everyone to transform the lives of the 1.5 billion people whose lives are mar red by violence , conflict , and insecurity .
a new deal for the lisbon strategy
whatever happened to the european union ’ s lisbon strategy ?
not only is the public almost entirely ignorant of the eu ’ s policy agenda for boosting competitiveness , economic growth , and employment , but this ignorance extends to many intellectuals , academics , ceo ’ s , and even some mp ’ s .
for example , in all of the debates on the eu ’ s constitutional treaty , neither its supporters nor its opponents have so much as mentioned the lisbon strategy .
it is little wonder , then , that euro skepticism – in france , the netherlands , and elsewhere – is on the rise .
despite the success and popularity of programs like er as m us , citizens don ’ t perceive the eu ’ s contribution to superior education or training .
indeed , the last euro barometer survey on the lisbon strategy found that the european public sees little relation between eu policies and economic competitiveness .
of course , some laboratories receive eu grants , but without recognizing a specific european mission in research policies .
europe is generally considered more a constraint than as a plan , more as an instrument than a vision nourished by a clear and credible idea .
the essential responsibility for this state of affairs lies with europe ’ s ruling class and policymakers .
as a recent assessment by former dutch prime minister wi m kok pointed out , the eu ’ s member states generally have not made the lisbon strategy a high priority , and they bal k at giving the eu the means to pursue more ambitious policies to offset this neglect .
it is difficult to ask citizens to be enthusiastic about aims that their leaders ignore .
at bottom , the problem is one of legitimacy .
the main targets – jobs , growth , and research – are considered legitimate from the standpoint of fairness when described in general terms .
but the concrete policies needed to realize this aim are not , since reforming the welfare state and labor markets means more competition , which sca res many citizens .
legitimacy is even more problematic regarding recognition , which implies a feeling of community and attachment .
when we are faced with conflicting choices – burden-sharing through taxation , the organization of the public sector , the status of public employees , etc . – the member states are considered to be the only bodies entitled to decide .
in short , when the eu brings subsidies , it receives congrat ul ations ; but when it pushes for unpopular reforms , it becomes the scapegoat for political , social , and economic failures .
from an economic point of view , the lisbon strategy ’ s aim is to transform europe into a power able to compete on equal terms with the us today and the great asian countries .
but this aim does not appear to be creating a european identity , as the euro has .
within many states , “ power ” isn ’ t politically correct .
above all , there is no link age between national power and european power .
if we want europe to be more legitimate , we must explain how to tie these two dimensions of power .
aside from ignorance of the lisbon strategy among the public and inaction on long-term reforms among the member states , a second problem concerns the lack of acceptance of the virtues of competition – the most effective way to ensure quality , innovation , and low prices for consumers .
competition also puts an end to rent seeking and protection of traditional corporate advantages .
similarly , while competition will improve the quality of research and education , this does not imply reduced public funding , a lower priority for basic research , or the elimination of scholar ships .
perhaps most importantly , competition is a powerful means to restore democracy and modernize political institutions by compelling policymakers to ensure transparency and accountability .
elites must give up their privileges , and regulations on corporate governance must limit collusion between managers and civil servants or politicians .
we must explain to citizens europe ’ s contribution to public ethics , and the democratic virtues of fair competition in economic , political , and social life .
consider one of the main purposes of the lisbon strategy : the organization of research and higher education .
it is impossible to change radically the way scholars and research workers are appointed in most member states , and to revise completely the criteria for funding of fac ul ties and laboratories . but the eu can overcome national impediments by developing exempl ary universities and research centers that would be properly european , serving as an incentive to quality and reform at the national level .
em ulation through excellence is the motor of competitiveness .
a good place to start is an idea supported by french socialist leader dominique straus s- kahn , who has proposed that 0.25 % of europe ’ s gdp be dedicated to research and used to create a european agency for research .
moreover , europe must build up tools for strategic analysis , assessment , and forecasting to provoke and nour ish public debate .
such think tanks at the european level must remain free and independent , but leaders must learn to pay attention to and integrate their recommendations into the policy- making process .
in many matters per taining to the lisbon strategy , the eu can not avoid member states ’ concerns .
but as the states won ’ t be able to do everything alone and won ’ t renounce maintaining political control , we must be able to link the union ’ s policies and those of specific states .
otherwise , the lisbon strategy could merely empower an inefficient bureaucracy , rather than boosting the eu ’ s democratic legitimacy .
in short , the lisbon strategy could lead europe to become a real power in the coming decades , or it could fuel further growth of euro skepticism .
a new democratic agenda for russia
moscow – when russian president dmitri medvedev delivered his annual address to the federal assembly i was struck by the fact that his speech seemed to be meant for an advanced , prosperous country , not the real russia of today .
russia will hold a presidential election in 2012 .
what happens in 2011 will , in my opinion , be even more important than the election itself .
indeed , the evolution of russian society could transform russian politics , despite those domestic opponents who deny change or those who un qual if i edly classi fy russia as “ in cor rig ibly authoritarian . ”
but , in order for that to happen , a new agenda for russia must be developed this year .
a decade ago , defense of russia ’ s territorial integrity and restoration of govern ability top ped the list of priorities .
people supported a president , vladimir putin , who was devoted to this “ stabilization ” agenda .
we may debate the means by which it was pursued , and how successfully , but russia ’ s “ existential ” challenges were largely overcome .
but progress on stabilization only highlighted russia ’ s unresolved problems , which the global financial crisis exacerbated , but did not cause .
after all , russia ’ s resource- based , de- industri alizing , expendit ure- driven economy is the result of purely domestic choices .
nor was it the crisis that gave rise to corruption , which affects offici al dom at all levels , or that caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic .
we russians ro de along on oil and gas , for getting that these resources will not last forever .
but , even with favorable world market conditions , we did not manage to solve the problem of poverty , in which millions of russians still live .
i am convinced that russia ’ s troubles all come down to politics .
only under such conditions will difficult problems lend themselves to solution .
but , starting in 200 5- 2006 , the authorities implemented measures that made respon siveness to acute problems practically impossible .
the decisions to appoint , rather than elect , regional governors , to introduce par ty- list voting , to raise the electoral threshold for parties to enter the duma , and to repeal the minimum- turnout requirement – all accompanied by rampant manipulation of elections and the mass media – created a political system closed to feedback from society .
not surprisingly , the political elite became self- absorbed and served only its own narrow interests .
this summer , with wild fires raging outside moscow , the elite ’ s isolation took on a men ac ing nature .
but something else happened : society became more demanding , recognizing its own interests and knowing how to express them .
although the traditions of self- organization in russian society are neither deep nor strong , real movement in this direction became visible for all to see .
activists from public movements , journalists , ec ologists , businessmen , and ordinary people who had suffered the tyranny and corruption of public officials began to join in .
the authorities have recognized this , at least to some degree .
medvedev 's decision to suspend construction of a highway through the k him ki forest near moscow in the face of widespread civic protest was important .
for many months , moscow and federal authorities ignored the highway ’ s opponents , so medvedev ’ s decision was a signal : contempt for the people is in ad mis sible .
yet right after that , the bureaucracy tried to turn the public hearings – called to give people and civil institutions a voice in solving such problems – into an empty form ality .
so the struggle between democratic and anti-democratic tendencies is becoming acute .
if the anti-democratic tendencies win out , all that we have accomplished in previous years will be jeopardized – including stability itself .
this threat evidently motivated medvedev to speak out in november : “ it is no secret , ” medvedev wrote in his blog , “ that , as of a certain period , symptoms of stagnation have begun to appear in our political life , and the threat of turning stability into a factor of stagnation has appeared . ”
the president ’ s statement was unexpected .
medvedev ’ s assessment att ested to his understanding that russia ’ s problems are rooted in its politics – in the degradation of the ruling party , in the absence of a real opposition , and in the lack of respect for the rights of political minorities .
i welcome medvedev ’ s emphasis on social concerns and his anti- bureaucratic rhetoric .
but his statements are only a first step toward formulating a new russian agenda , the first point of which must be a renewal and acceleration of movement toward real and effective democracy .
it is vital that russians believe that medvedev ’ s words reflect his priorities , and that he is prepared to fight for them .
among these priorities , one of the most important is education .
we have approached the point when the constitutional requirement of universal , free education may become a fiction .
people are asking : how is it that , after world war ii , the state had enough money to provide free education , whereas today ’ s russian state does not ?
society also demands effective mechanisms for combating corruption , which is turning into a serious political problem , precisely because it has widened the gap between the people and the authorities .
indeed , today ’ s elite can not or will not solve the problem .
only a serious presidential initiative , supported by civil society and brave new political forces , can do the job .
the new agenda must also include a strong economic component .
pat ching up holes in the budget and individual initiatives are not enough to ensure economic renewal .
russia needs a breakthrough toward an up -to- date , knowledge-based , and ec ologically sustainable economy .
i am convinced that medvedev must become the leader in the process of formulating the new russian agenda , and he must act in the coming year .
society will support him .
de- risking revis ited
new york – until the recent bout of financial-market turbulence , a variety of risky assets ( including equities , government bonds , and commodities ) had been rallying since last summer .
but , while risk aversion and volatility were falling and asset prices were rising , economic growth remained sluggish throughout the world .
now the global economy ’ s chickens may be coming home to ro ost .
japan , struggling against two decades of stagnation and deflation , had to resort to abenomics to avoid a qu intu p le- dip recession .
in the united kingdom , the debate since last summer has focused on the prospect of a trip le- dip recession .
most of the eurozone remains mired in a severe recession – now spreading from the periphery to parts of the core .
even in the united states , economic performance has remained mediocre , with growth hovering around 1.5 % for the last few quarters .
and now the dar l ings of the world economy , emerging markets , have proved unable to reverse their own slow downs .
according to the imf , china ’ s annual gdp growth has slowed to 8 % , from 10 % in 2010 ; over the same period , india ’ s growth rate slowed from 1 1.2 % to 5.7 % .
russia , brazil , and south africa are growing at around 3 % , and other emerging markets are slowing as well .
this gap between wall street and main street ( rising asset prices , despite wor se- than- expected economic performance ) can be explained by three factors .
first , the tail risks ( low- probability , high- impact events ) in the global economy – a eurozone breakup , the us going over its fiscal cliff , a hard economic landing for china , a war between israel and iran over nuclear proliferation – are lower now than they were a year ago .
second , while growth has been disappointing in both developed and emerging markets , financial markets remain hopeful that better economic data will emerge in the second half of 2013 and 2014 , especially in the us and japan , with the uk and the eurozone bott oming out and most emerging markets returning to form .
optimists repeat the refrain that “ this year is different ” : after a prolonged period of painful deleveraging , the global economy supposedly is on the cusp of stronger growth .
third , in response to slower growth and lower inflation ( owing partly to lower commodity prices ) , the world ’ s major central banks pursued another round of unconventional monetary easing : lower policy rates , forward guidance , quantitative easing ( qe ) , and credit easing .
likewise , many emerging-market central banks reacted to slower growth and lower inflation by cutting policy rates as well .
this massive wave of liquidity searching for yield fueled temporary asset-price reflation around the world .
but there were two risks to liquid ity- driven asset reflation .
first , if growth did not recover and surprise on the upside ( in which case high asset prices would be justified ) , eventually slow growth would dominate the le vit ational effects of liquidity and force asset prices lower , in line with weaker economic fundamentals .
second , it was possible that some central banks – namely the fed – could pull the plug ( or h ose ) by exiting from qe and zero policy rates .
this brings us to the recent financial-market turbulence .
it was already evident in the first and second quarters of this year that growth in china and other emerging markets was slowing .
this explains the under performance of commodities and emerging-market equities even before the recent turmoil .
but the fed ’ s recent signals of an early exit from qe – together with stronger evidence of china ’ s slowdown and chinese , japanese , and european central bankers ’ failure to provide the additional monetary easing that investors expected – dealt emerging markets an additional blow .
these countries have found themselves on the receiving end not only of a correction in commodity prices and equities , but also of a brutal re- pricing of currencies and both local - and foreign-currency fixed- income assets .
brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” have now suddenly gotten what they wished for : a likely early end of the fed ’ s qe .
whether the correction in risky assets is temporary or the start of a bear market will depend on several factors .
one is whether the fed will truly exit from qe as quickly as it signaled .
there is a strong likelihood that weaker us growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of liquidity support .
another variable is how much easier monetary policies in other developed countries will become .
the bank of japan , the european central bank , the bank of england , and the swiss national bank are already easing policy as their economies ’ growth lags that of the us .
how much further they go may well be influenced in part by domestic conditions and in part by the extent to which weaker growth in china exacerbates downside risks in asian economies , commodity exporters , and the us and the eurozone .
a further slowdown in china and other emerging economies is another risk to financial markets .
then there is the question of how emerging-market policymakers respond to the turbulence : will they raise rates to stem inflationary depreciation and capital outflows , or will they cut rates to boost fl agging gdp growth , thus increasing the risk of inflation and of a sudden capital-flow reversal ?
two final factors include how soon the eurozone economy bott oms out ( there have been some recent signs of stabilization , but the monetary union ’ s chronic problems remain unresolved ) , and whether middle east tensions and the threat of nuclear proliferation in the region – and responses to that threat by the us and israel – escalate or are successfully contained .
a new period of uncertainty and volatility has begun , and it seems likely to lead to ch op py economies and ch op py markets .
indeed , a broader de- risking cycle for financial markets could be at hand .
a new era for islamic science ?
for a few hundred years , when science and mathematics were enjoying a period of great invention , one region of the world stood out .
masters of these disciplines were re vered there , medicine advanced quickly , and the average person was curious about how nature worked .
not surprisingly , this region was globally respected .
in the other half of the known planet , scientists were punished , even killed .
mathematics was out la wed as ir religious and alien , and was later made subservi ent to religion .
the standard of living was low .
the prosperous region was the islamic middle east , while an ignorant europe remained poor .
both regions were relig iously governed ( historians differ about the role and nat ures of the religions in this context ) , but science flour ished only in one of them .
now , of course the roles of the islamic middle east and the west are reversed .
since world war ii , the united states has been the world ’ s undis pu ted leader in science .
throughout this period , the brightest students were drawn away from their native lands , attracted by superior research universities and opportunities .
until recently , more than half of all mathematics , science , and engineering graduate students in the us were foreign- born .
many of these talents stayed after graduation , and both industry and government took advantage of this .
meanwhile , islamic cultures entered a historical phase in which science was equ ated with western influence and esche wed .
even in countries where oil revenues could fuel a significant amount of research , arab rulers did not encourage such investment , with the result that their societies have not prosper ed as much as they might have .
recently , a desire for greater political respect has spurred islamic nations to invest in technology , which is most visible in pakistani and iranian nuclear ambitions .
but while such weapons carry political weight , the science behind them is mundane and old .
imagine the influence that would be generated by a pakistani institute that was the world leader in cancer research .
would the political rhetoric shift if researchers in oman discovered a key to suppressing aids ?
this is one un claimed opportunity .
but another exists , and not just for islamic societies .
the us has made profound missteps recently .
“ matters of faith ” have been substitu ted for science across government , from the president down .
top researchers have had their reports changed by political oper atives when the facts contradic ted official belief .
encouraged by a relig iously influenced administration , school systems are shifting their focus from science to “ values . ”
since the terrorist attacks of september 2001 , entry visas are fewer and more difficult to obtain , stan ching the flow of young talent into us universities .
major scientific organizations have protested , without result .
at the same time , tax laws have been revised to make investors wealthier in the near term , discouraging long-term investment in research .
half a trillion dollars was committed to the war in iraq , an amount roughly equal to the sponsor ship of all basic research for the last thousand years .
even if the us avoids a fundamentalist dark age , it clearly risks losing its global research dominance .
japan recognized the link between political clout and science in the 1980 ’ s .
japan ’ s chief industri alist , ak io mor ita , the chairman of s ony , and the right-wing politician sh int ar o ish i har a gave a series of speeches that were collected and published in 1986 as a book called the japan that can say no .
they outlined a national strategy in which world influence was understood to flow from scientific leadership .
the key idea was that military power could be made obsolete if the “ food chain ” of military technologies was controlled by other nations .
the book ’ s title refers to japan ’ s plan to “ say no ” to us military influence once japan controlled key military technologies .
building a knowledge-based economy using oil wealth is clearly possible .
for example , texas , like most southern us states , was once economically poor and declining .
although it had oil revenue , the flow of dollars into an economy , by itself , does not boost prosperity as much as one might think .
so texas decided to devote its oil money to an educational endow ment .
today , that endow ment is roughly equal to that of harvard university and spread over 15 universities .
the effect has been staggering : aeros pace manufacturing has almost disappeared from california , but is booming in texas .
telec om research centers and consor tia have f locked to texas , even from the canadian telecommunications giant nor tel .
although manufacturing in the us is in crisis , texas has one of the strongest manufacturing economies in the world .
there is no reason that the same outcome could not be achieved in the middle east .
first , however , the islamic world must re discover and embrace its proud heritage .
­ a new european growth agenda
growth and jobs need to be promoted with equal zeal .
european union leaders now recognize this : kick - starting growth in 2012 was high on the agenda at the european council ’ s meeting on january 30 .
but the big question remains : how ?
the need for immediate action is clear .
the eurozone ’ s economy contracted in the last three months of 2011 ; even germany ’ s shrank .
the new year is looking grim .
france is fl at- lining ( as is britain ) .
italy and spain have sunk into deep recession .
greece is in its fifth year of a slump .
and eurozone unemployment is at record highs , with nearly one in two young people jobless in spain and greece .
the economic headwinds are formidable : fiscal austerity , high interest rates outside a a a- rated countries , credit cutting by banks , deleveraging households , weak private-sector investment , and declining exports as the global slowdown undermines demand .
until growth resum es , any tentative financial stabilization will be extremely fragile .
recession will hit banks ’ and governments ’ already- weak balance sheets , increasing pressure for faster deleveraging .
but , while gradual adjustment is essential , faster and deeper cuts are largely self-defeating : big reductions in private credit and government spending will cause a sharper slowdown – and thus a vicious downward spiral .
a big new push for growth is therefore vital .
so far , the growth agenda has consisted largely of structural reforms , which are essential for boosting future productivity and flexibility .
the crisis does provide a political opportunity for bold moves on this front in many countries ; but structural reforms generally will not generate growth and jobs immediately ( one exception is permitting shops to open longer ) .
on the contrary , a sha ke out of less productive jobs , for example , would at first raise unemployment , increase government outlays , and reduce private spending .
and , because demand is depressed , credit is in short supply , and barriers to enterprise are often high , it will take longer than usual for businesses to create more productive jobs .
in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to stimulate growth in 2012 .
instead , the immediate focus needs to be on boosting investment and exports in economies with a current-account deficit – such as france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries such as germany and the netherlands .
the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs to support the real economy , too .
while official interest rates are only 1 % , solvent sovereigns such as spain pay more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while credit worthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all .
so the ecb should do more to un block the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size businesses .
while improving access to finance is vital , governments also need to do more to boost investment .
they should prioritize measures to make it easier to start a business , lift barriers to venture capital , and introduce temporary 100 % capital allow ances to encourage businesses to bring forward investment .
at the eu level , the ( call able ) capital of the european investment bank should be greatly increased , as european commission president josé manuel barroso suggested in his state of the union speech last september , so that the e ib can finance a big wave of pan-european investment , notably in infrastructure .
boosting exports is also essential .
deficit countries need to become more competitive , increasing productivity while cutting costs .
a fiscal devaluation – slashing payroll taxes and replacing the revenues with a higher vat – would also help .
surplus countries , too , must do their part , which is in their own interest .
just as china needs to allow the renminbi to rise , so germany – whose current-account surplus exceeds china 's both as a share of gdp and in absolute terms – needs a higher real exchange rate .
that means that germans need to earn higher wages , commensurate with their increased productivity , so that they can afford more greek and spanish hol id ays .
if businesses will not obli ge , an income-tax cut would do the trick .
that brings us to fiscal policy .
governments that can not borrow cheaply ( or at all ) from markets have no option but to tighten their bel ts .
but they should pursue smart consolidation rather than un thinking austerity .
so they should maintain investment in skills and infrastructure , while cutting subsidies and transfer payments .
they should also legisl ate now for future reforms , notably to encourage people to work longer .
last but not least , governments that can borrow at unpreced ent edly low rates – 0 % in real terms over 10 years in the case of germany – must play their role in supporting demand .
would it be really be so difficult to see vat coming down ahead of the german election next year ?
a new holy alliance ?
london -- the recent meeting in the vatican of the “ cust odi an of the holy places , ” king abdullah of saudi arabia , and pope ben edict x vi was a sem inal event , particularly as it comes at a time when radical muslims are dec rying the role of “ crus aders ” in middle east politics .
it was also the clearest sign yet of a rising “ holy alliance ” among the world ’ s conservative leaders .
for the key audience for this meeting of muslim king and roman catholic pon ti ff was not their followers , but another conservative leader , president george w. bush .
the first “ holy alliance ” was a creation of austria ’ s prince met ter n ich following the napole onic wars .
it was an attempt to preserve the peace ( and the security of the relatively weak austrian empire ) through a coalition of victors upholding shared values .
met ter n ich ’ s “ holy alliance ” was the one original political idea to emerge from napoleon ’ s defeat .
behind its ex al ted name lay an innovation of great diplomatic significance : the introduction of an element of calculated moral restraint into international relations .
the vested interests that the alliance members – austria , pr us sia , and russia – had in the survival of their domestic institutions led each to seek to avoid conflicts that , in the past , they would have pursued as a matter of course .
met ter n ich ’ s system worked through much of the nineteenth century , because it protected a genuine balance of power between countries that shared common values .
but what “ common values ” do king , pope , and american president share ?
that such a meeting took place is a sign that both pope and king believed that there was something to achieve .
indeed , abdullah , who believes himself to be the paramount leader of the muslim world , is the first saudi king to initiate a meeting with a leader of the christian faith .
the two men met , seemingly as equals , not to express the common values of conservatism , but to confirm and promote their authority to uphold traditional values .
both agreed that reform must be slow , cautious and that it must never undermine established institutions , especially religion and the patri arch al family .
abdullah sought the meeting because he believes that the world since 2001 has divided the frater nity of conservatives .
until then , he and bush shared a common worldview , emphasizing the importance of religion , the traditional family ( as both countries understood it ) , social discipline , and the state ’ s role in supporting these institutions .
american radicalism , however , resulted in increasing tensions between religious communities in the middle east , and the rise of radical iran with its bid for regional hegemony .
since 2001 , christian minorities have been targeted throughout the region , including even lebanon ’ s mar on ite christian community .
and in iraq , sunni muslims feel under siege from the country ’ s majority and now ruling shia .
here is where the holy alliance concept of moral restraint comes in .
abdullah , perhaps earlier than most others , understood that some code of restraint was needed if the entire region was not to desc end into a war of all against all .
moreover , abdullah understands that his w ob bly regime will only be able to withstand the radical gal es that are now blowing if it can forge the type of stabil ity- seeking alliance that met ter n ich built .
the king , like met ter n ich and the austrian ka is ers , understands de tocqueville ’ s dictum that the most dangerous moment for a regime is when it starts to reform .
having begun , ever so carefully , to politically open his country , the king knows that he needs regional peace and a lowering of islamic holy rage .
the problem is that abdullah can not rely on his domestic conservative allies to give him the time that the kingdom needs .
the wahhabi religious establishment , the saudi state ’ s hidden co- rulers , could very well obstruc t abdullah ’ s attempts at regional religious reconciliation .
members of the religious police remain adamant that the country ’ s christian gu ests must continue to live according to strict wahhabi rules of behavior .
while the wah hab is could yet be br ibed again with oil money , the sect ’ s power- hungry judges eagerly await the next be heading , st oning , or l ashing in riyadh ’ s public square .
thus , uniting the forces of status quo conservatism , even if some of those conservatives are christian , is the only viable diplomatic strategy open to saudi arabia .
for conservative rulers usually fall when they fail to grasp their own vulnerability , especially when the revolutionary challenge is clo aked in conservative gar b .
after all , few political systems can defend against those , like saudi arabia ’ s islamic radicals , who claim that they can preserve the system and its religious values more effectively than the current rulers .
only an alliance of conservative leaders and powers ( including a retreat by america from diplomatic radicalism ) , abdullah believes , can restore some stability to the middle east .
a glim mer of hope in iran
berlin – no one could have reck oned with hassan rowhani ’ s victory in iran ’ s presidential election .
even supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei was probably more than a little surprised by rowhani ’ s first- round victory , following a campaign that began with eight candidates .
as a result , the negotiations with iran over its nuclear program , as well as the civil war in syria , may well take on a new dynamic .
but that is how it is in the middle east : you never know what lies around the corner .
this year marks the tenth anniversary of the launch , at the foreign- minister level , of negotiations between iran and the european trium vir ate of germany , france , and the united kingdom on iran ’ s nuclear program .
i was there , representing germany ; so was rowhani , who led the iranian delegation .
the talks have continued until today – in an expanded form at that includes germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council ( the p5+1 ) – without any tangible results .
now rowhani returns to the risky business of iran ’ s nuclear program , though this time as president .
what can we – and he – expect ?
based on my personal experience , rowhani is a pol ite and open character .
unlike outgoing president mahmoud ahmadinejad , he surr ounds himself with very skillful and experienced diplomats .
but there should be no doubt that he is a man of the regime – a realist and moderate member of the islamic republic ’ s political elite – not a representative of the opposition .
if rowhani wants to succeed in office , he will have to keep his promise to improve iranians ’ living conditions without endangering the islamic republic in the process .
that will not be easy ; in fact , it could amount to trying to square a circle .
the economic improvement that voters demanded in electing rowhani can almost certainly be achieved only if western and international sanctions are lifted .
but an end to international sanctions presupposes a breakthrough in the nuclear negotiations .
it may also pre suppose at least a temporary settlement of the main regional conflicts .
the middle east has changed dramatically in the last ten years .
america has reduced its involvement , having withdrawn its troops from iraq and winding down its engagement in afghanistan by next year .
at the same time , we are witnessing the dissolution of the old middle east created by france and britain after world war i , when europe ’ s two great colonial powers created territorial mandates in palestine , syria ( including pres ent- day lebanon ) , trans jordan , and iraq .
a new regional order is not yet discern ible , which points to a future fraught with risk and possible chaos .
as iran seeks to assert its influence and interests , as well as those of its shia allies , its dispute with the security council over its nuclear program has become closely tied to its regional ambitions .
after all , the prospect of a nuclear-armed iran would most likely exacerbate violent conflict and a nuclear arms race in the region .
as a result , both issues may well have to be addressed successfully prior to any move to lift the sanctions .
iran and its international interlocutors should learn from the past and manage expectations accordingly .
there will not be any quick solutions ( if , indeed , there are any solutions at all ) , given the parties ’ diam etr ically opposed interests , their respective domestic and alli ance- related obstacles , and a profound lack of trust on all sides .
moreover , aside from negotiating with the p5+1 , iran would be well advised to launch direct negotiations with the united states .
it will also most likely have to improve its relations with saudi arabia and the gulf states , and change its behavior toward israel , if a positive result is to be achieved .
similarly , the west will have to understand that the islamic republic is not a mon ol ith ic dictatorship .
the regime has multiple co existing power centers , which influence and limit each other ’ s decisions .
the office of the president is just one power center .
the same applies to the supreme leader , who , despite his title , is not an absolute ruler .
iran has tried two political approaches in the last ten years : a reformist model , under president mohamed khatami , and hardline radicalism , under ahmadinejad .
both approaches failed .
the reformers could not overcome conservative opposition , while the radicals could not defeat the domestic economic realities wrought by their foreign and nuclear policies .
rowhani must seek a path that does not cost him the support of the majority of the regime ’ s power centers , yet that also allows him to fulfill the mandate he received from voters .
at home , too , massive distrust will further complicate an inherently difficult task .
in america and the west , many will probably regard rowhani as the friendly face of the islamic republic , whereas ahmadinejad was its true – because more radical – em bodi ment .
many iranians , in turn , regard obama as the friendly face of a us that still seeks regime change in their country , whereas his predecessor , george w. bush , was america ’ s more honest – because more radical – representative .
both perceptions distort reality , though both contain a ker nel of truth .
despite these perceptions – or perhaps precisely because of them – rowhani ’ s presidency offers an unexpected opportunity for both the nuclear negotiations and a political solution in syria .
during the afghanistan conference in bonn in 2001 , iran behaved in a pragmatic , resul t s- oriented way – an approach that went completely un rewarded by the us .
as for the nuclear negotiations , the p5+1 will focus on objective guarantees that leave iran no path toward military use of its nuclear capabilities .
for iran , the fo cal point of its efforts will be recognition of its right to civilian use of nuclear energy , in keeping with the provisions of the non-proliferation treaty and its protocols .
both issues sound simpler than they are : the devil is in the details , and the details leave ample scope for disagreement over the definition , monitoring , and enforcement of terms .
again , maintaining realistic expectations must be paramount .
a successful outcome in the nuclear negotiations and resolution or even containment of the main regional conflicts will be difficult to achieve .
but it would be the height of ir responsibility not to seize the unexpected opportunity created by rowhani ’ s election with all the strength , good faith , and creativity we can muster .
a second chance for european reform
munich – the european central bank has managed to calm the markets with its promise of unlimited purchases of eurozone government bonds , because it effectively assured bondholders that the taxpayers and pensioners of the eurozone ’ s still- sound economies would , if necessary , shoulder the repayment burden .
although the ecb left open how this would be carried out , its commitment whe tted investors ’ appetite , reduced interest-rate spreads in the eurozone , and made it possible to reduce the funding of crisis- stricken economies through the printing press ( target credit ) .
this respite offers an ideal opportunity to push forward with reforms .
greek prime minister anton is sam ar as must convince his country men that he is serious about implementing them .
spanish prime minister mari ano ra joy and portuguese finance minister vit or gas par deserve more support for their plans .
and one can only hope that italy ’ s care ta ker prime minister , mario monti , contests the next general election .
all of these leaders understand what must be done .
france , by contrast , does not appear to have noticed the writing on the wall .
president françois hollande wants to solve his country ’ s problems with growth programs .
but when politicians say “ growth , ” they mean “ borrowing . ”
that is the last thing that france needs .
france ’ s debt/gdp ratio is already around 90 % ; even if its 2013 budget deficit does not exceed 3.5 % of gdp , its debt/gdp ratio will have climbed to 93 % by the end of the year .
the government ’ s gdp share , at 56 % , is the highest in the eurozone and second highest among all developed countries .
it is not only film actors like g é r ard depar di eu who are leaving the country to escape its high taxes ; industry is fleeing as well .
france ’ s once- proud car makers are fighting for survival .
indeed , france ’ s manufacturing industry has shrunk to barely 9 % of gdp , less than britain ’ s manufacturing share ( 10 % ) and less than half of germany ’ s ( 20 % ) .
its current account is sliding into an ever- deeper deficit hole .
unemployment is rising to record levels .
france ’ s basic problem , like that of the countries most affected by the crisis , is that the wave of cheap credit that the euro ’ s introduction made possible fueled an inflationary bubble that rob bed it of its competitiveness .
goldman sachs has calculated that france must become 20 % cheaper to service its debt on a sustainable basis .
the same is true of spain , while italy would have to become 10-15 % cheaper and greece and portugal would need domestic prices to fall 30 % and 35 % , respectively .
but , so far , virtually nothing has been done in this respect .
worse , some of the troubled countries ’ inflation rates are still running higher than those of their trading partners .
eurozone politicians tend to believe that it is possible to regain competitiveness by carrying out reforms , undertaking infrastructure projects , and improving productivity , but without reducing domestic prices .
that is a fallacy , because such steps improve competitiveness only in the same measure as they reduce domestic prices vis-à-vis eurozone competitors .
there is no way around a reduction in relative domestic prices as long as these countries remain in the currency union : either they defl ate , or their trading partners inflate faster .
there is no easy or socially comfortable way to accomplish this .
in some cases , such a course can be so perilous that it should not be wished upon any society .
the gap is simply too large between what is needed to restore competitiveness and what citizens can stomach if they remain part of the monetary union .
in order to become cheaper , a country ’ s inflation rate must stay below that of its competitors , but that can be accomplished only through an economic slump .
the more trade unions defend existing wage structures , and the lower productivity growth is , the longer the slump will be .
spain and france would need a ten-year slump , with annual inflation 2 % lower than that of their competitors , to regain their competitiveness .
for italy , the path toward competitiveness is shorter , but for portugal and greece it is substantially longer – perhaps too long .
italy , france , and spain should be able to regain competitiveness in the eurozone within a foreseeable period of time .
after all , germany cut its prices relative to its eurozone trading partners by 22 % from 1995 , when the euro was definitively announced , to 2008 , when the global financial crisis erupted .
ten years ago , germany was like france is today – the sick man of europe .
it suffered from increasing unemployment and a lack of investment .
most of its savings were being invested abroad , and its domestic net investment share was among the lowest of all oecd countries .
under growing pressure to act , gerhard schröder ’ s social democratic government decided in 2003 to deprive millions of germans of their second- tier unemployment insurance , thus paving the way for the creation of a low-wage sector , in turn reducing the rate of inflation .
unfortunately , thus far , there is no sign that the crisis countries , above all france , are ready to bite the bullet .
the longer they cling to a belief in magic formul as , the longer the euro crisis will be with us .
a new science
an unusual meeting of scientists took place in paris this summer , when scientists gathered to brain storm about the need for a new science , one that could be as revolutionary as einstein ’ s insights were a century ago .
most scientists assume that the bas ics of science are known .
in terms of big challenges , the conventional wisdom is that few things are left to discover .
the remaining options are said to fall into three groups : “ grand scientific qu and aries ” ( such as uniting gravity and electricity into one theory ) which require a huge investment and first world infrastructure ; “ data collection , ” which is the field work associated with ar che ological dig s and bi olog ic al / genetic surveys ; and “ sci ence- informed problems , ” such as combating aids or addressing global warming .
beyond that , many believe the only hard work will be to use existing laws to benefit humankind in new technological ways .
who can argue ?
after all , today ’ s models work .
but an emerging group of scientists points to phenomena that current theories do not address well .
this missing science would describe processes , and how entire systems evolve .
individual scientific disciplines are understood fairly well .
physics , at least the physics we encounter as ordinary humans , is well m apped .
chemistry and bio chemistry are similarly solid -- there are some things we don ’ t understand about the body , but it is believed that the basic machinery of how cells and molec ules interact is known .
slightly apart from these are the new social sciences , which deal with humans and societies .
in each of these areas -- physics , bio chemistry and social science -- the theories are mature and largely un controversial .
each discipline has its own language and its own separate machinery .
rarely is a scientist an expert in more than one area , because the worlds and languages are so different .
this means that we can ’ t answer complex questions that depend on more than one field . consider the brain , for example .
this complex organ is composed of molec ules that interact using the principles of physics . that information moves according to the laws of electricity .
there is also a system of specialized cells , and these interact , exchanging chemicals that also convey information .
the interaction between two brains adds another level : here , information is exchanged by means of languages , signs and ideas .
information is at work on each level and comfortable theories explain how the separate ones operate .
but information is being exchanged between the levels as well .
there is no science that explains this , even at the most ru dim entary level .
to cope with this deficiency , some scientists have tried to reinvent the tools of one level in order to apply them to another .
this leads to such things as a “ language ” at the level of cells and “ energy ” behind organized societies .
sometimes the trans plant works well enough , but it does not address the central problem : what is the nature of the information conve yed between each level , and how is it conve yed ?
as it happens , nearly every system in the world is composed of such layers .
a similarly embarrassing lack of understanding about how the whole system works exists in every case .
the group of inter disciplinary scientists that met in paris is loosely affiliated under the banner “ foundations of information science . ”
they have been working in a distributed collaboration for eight years and come from a range of countries and speci alties .
as well as scientists from the relevant disciplines , art theorists , psychi atr ists , language experts and philosophers are beginning to participate in the discussion .
most of the group is banking on the “ trans plant ” strategy , in which the basic science of one layer is placed in another , t weak ed and supplemented in order to be functional .
others think that a whole new approach is required .
they assume that many scientific conventions are accidents of history and new abstr actions can be devised .
if the fis group is lucky , there will also be some radical input from thinkers that do not pres ently have access to first world infrastructure .
independent thinking is an underestimated factor .
nearly all the activities collected under the banner of “ science ” have developed institutional tendencies that are similar to their economic counterparts .
many scientific discipl es are going through a revolution , and a lot of those ideas -- sometimes revolutionary ideas -- are bub bling up from labs and research centers that are un affiliated with large institutions .
twenty years of the most advanced thinking for mathematical algorithms came from a soviet empire starved of computing power .
the cle ver est , most literally ear th- shat tering notions of physics for two generations came not from the expected power houses of the day , but from budapest .
iran has a tradition of architec tural design that has revealed key insights to cognitive scientists .
today , some of the most radical new ideas in second generation artificial intelligence ( so-called “ autonomous agents ” ) are incub ating in prague .
the most creative breakthroughs became famous events .
when einstein added new abstr actions to the language of physics , the identity of space and time changed .
the fis meeting in july was the un heralded beginning of an attempt to re model the universe in such a way .
the group identified the gaps that need explanation . they will expand their pool of thinkers to include scientists from necessarily innovative regions .
following this , they will identify which problems might be solved if this new science is developed . or if you wish , discovered .
a new sino-american relationship ?
new york – the strategic and economic dialogue between the united states and china has now ended with the establishment of a fel ic itous new atmosphere between the two countries . but how can this “ lo ve- in ” be made concrete ?
the most logical and potentially fruit ful area of collaboration is climate change .
here , the two us government officials best equipped to lead are secretary of energy steven ch u and secretary of commerce gary loc ke .
ch u is a former berkeley and stanford professor of physics and head of the lawrence berkeley national lab , while loc ke is a former washington state governor and a long-time supporter of us-china commercial exchanges .
each p acks the kind of soft , utilit arian powers of persuasion that chinese leaders are most willing to embrace : academic degrees from prestigious universities , advanced scientific and technological knowledge , high office , and a nobel prize . ( ch u is one of five ethnic chinese to have won a nobel , although no winner has yet come from the pr c , a fact that g na ws at chinese pride . )
china ’ s press was abu z z over ch u and loc ke , the first ethnic chinese men to become us cabinet secre tar ies .
most major chinese papers ran ch u ’ s photo on the front page , with beijing business today running a cau tionary headline : “ don ’ t mistake the visiting american ministers as relatives ! ”
the paper went on to warn that , “ in their own hearts , we are afraid that ch u and loc ke put their priorities in exactly the opposite order . ”
when ch u gave speeches on energy and climate change at t sing hua university , china ’ s most elite institution for science and engineering ( where his parents had been students ) , and then at tian jin university ( where his grandfather was once president ) , he was received with enormous enthusiasm , over flow crowds , and standing ov ations .
so , the chinese ended up embracing ch u and loc ke in contradictory ways : as high- ranking representatives of the us government and as compatriots with whom they share the common bond of chinese- ness .
both ch u and loc ke are aware that the us and china are now the world ’ s largest emitters of greenhouse gases , and that , if there is any hope of re med ying global climate change , the two countries must quickly find a way to collaborate .
ch u emphasized this point in his t sing hua university speech , calling the global climate situation “ very disturbing , ” and stres sing that we were “ all in it together . ”
“ the developed world did make the problem … i admit that , ” he acknowledged to his rap t audience . “ but the developing world can make it much worse . ”
in announcing a new sino- us joint research effort , ch u described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino- us cooperation , saying that by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by ] acting alone . ”
still , one is left wonder if this new collaborative bon hom ie and ethnic bon ding will prove strong enough to cut through not only the long history of distr ust ful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’ s sudden economic rise ?
for , although the us has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’ s cabinet does represent a new high- water mark for diversity – americans have often shown a xenophobic distrust of immigrants who have drawn too close to power .
especially in the case of chinese , fears of divided national loy alties and “ fifth colum ns ” have been strong .
one need only recall the recent case of wen h o lee , the los al am os national laboratory scientist who was un justly accused of spying , to be reminded of how y in and yang are america ’ s feelings about minority members in sensitive positions .
a standoff ensu es , which is where we are now .
china recently demanded that the us reduce its emissions by 40 % from its 1990 baseline levels and subsidize emission reduction efforts in china and other developing countries to the tune of . 0 5- 1 % of america ’ s gdp .
but the recently house- passed wa x man- marke y bill proposes that the us only cut emissions by 3.6 % of 1990 baseline levels .
so it is still far from clear what will actually work to bring about an understanding between the us and china that produces real results .
moreover , with india po king secretary of state hillary clinton in the eye over her climate-change ent re ati es , the world could easily see an even more unified and un yielding bloc emerge among developing countries .
the next moment to watch is obama ’ s trip to china in november .
here , if all the expressions of good feeling can not be made concrete , an in comparable opportunity to rec ast sino- us relations around the issue of climate change will have been lost .
a new start for non-proliferation
vienna – us president barack obama has injected fresh momentum into efforts – stalled for a decade – to bring about nuclear disarmament .
he has committed himself to the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons and acknowledges the link between nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament by the nuclear- weapon states .
obama has pledged to revitalize the 1970 nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) , which aims to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons .
the non-proliferation regime , of which the npt is the cornerstone , is in disarray . the main problems are easily identified .
first , the five main nuclear- weapon states have not taken seriously their npt obligation to work for nuclear disarmament .
instead , they have insisted that nuclear weapons are essential for their security and continued to modernize their nuclear arsenals .
this naturally rob s them of the moral authority to persuade others not to acquire nuclear weapons , which continue to be perceived as a source of power and influence , and an insurance policy against attack .
second , as we have seen in the case of north korea , there is nothing to stop countries that sign the treaty from simply walking out after declaring that “ extraordinary events ” have jeopardized their supreme interests .
third , the international atomic energy agency , which is supposed to police the non-proliferation system , is sham efully under funded .
when it comes to determining whether or not a country is conducting a covert nuclear weapons program , iaea inspectors often have their hands tied , either because they lack the legal authority to gain access to all the locations they consider necessary , or because the iaea ’ s analytical laboratories are outdated , or because the agency does not have adequate access to satellite imag ery .
fourth , export controls have failed to prevent the spread of sensitive nuclear technology , not least due to the sophisticated efforts of cl an dest ine networks like the one run by pakistani nuclear scientist a . q . khan .
nine countries already have nuclear weapons , and it would be naive to presum e that others , particularly in regions of conflict , will not try to get hold of them .
in addition , a number of countries with nuclear energy programs have the capability , if they choose , to manufacture nuclear weapons within a matter of months if their security perceptions change , because they have ma stered the critical technology – uranium enrichment and plutonium re processing .
if more countries take this path , it could prove to be the ach illes ’ heel of non-proliferation .
fifth , the international community , spearheaded by the united nations security council , has more often than not been paralyzed in the face of challenges to international security and in effec tual in responding to suspected cases of nuclear proliferation .
these issues will not be resolved overnight . but there is much that can be done relatively quickly .
the united states and russia have started negotiations on deep cuts in their nuclear arsenals , which together account for 95 % of the world ’ s 2 7,000 warheads .
other key steps include bringing into force the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty ; negotiating a verifiable treaty to end production of fis s ile material for use in weapons ; radically improving the physical security of nuclear and radioactive materials , which is vital to prevent them from falling into the hands of terrorists ; and strengthening the iaea .
last month , i proposed a key measure to strengthen non-proliferation to the iaea ’ s board of governors – establishing an iaea bank of low- enriched uranium ( le u ) to guarantee supplies to countries that need nuclear fuel for their power reactors .
le u can not be used to make weapons .
some such mechanism will be essential in the coming decades as more and more countries introduce nuclear energy .
this would give countries confidence that they can count on reliable supplies of fuel to run their nuclear power plants , and therefore do not need to develop their own uran ium- enrichment or plut on ium- re processing capability .
this could help to avoid a repeat of iran ’ s experiences after its 1979 revolution , when contracts for fuel and technology for its planned nuclear power program were not honored .
thirty years later , some of the consequences are still being felt .
the le u would be available to countries in need on the basis of non- political and non- discriminatory criteria .
it would be accessible at market prices to all states in compliance with their nuclear safeguards obligations .
no state would be required to give up the right to develop its own fuel cycle .
the money needed to launch an le u bank is in place , thanks primarily to a non-governmental organization – the nuclear threat initiative – and initial funding from warren buffett .
but this can only be a first step . it should be followed by an agreement that all new enrichment and re processing activities will be placed exclusively under multinational control , and that all existing such facilities will be converted from national to multinational control .
this is a bold idea , but bold ideas are needed now more than ever .
the opportunity to put the nuclear fuel cycle under multinational control was missed 60 years ago because of the cold war . the spread of nuclear technology and the growing risk of nuclear terrorism make it imperative that we get it right this time .
a new - state solution for israel and palestine
princeton – imagine a two-state solution in israel and palestine in which palestinians would have the right of return ; israelis could settle wherever they could purchase land in the west bank ; and jerusalem need not be divided .
this is not a fanciful vision , but a creative and emin ently sensible reinv ention of twenty-first century statehood .
and us president barack obama ’ s just- completed visit to israel provides an opportunity to explore genuinely new thinking .
ever since bill clinton nearly succeeded in bro kering a comprehensive settlement in 2000 , the mantra among supporters of the israeli-palestinian peace process has been that , while a solution exists , israeli and palestinian leaders who are willing to reach it do not .
the solution is a version of the deal that clinton sought : two sovereign states based on the 1967 borders , with negotiated land swaps to reflect existing settlement patterns .
the agreement would include a land corridor connecting gaza and the west bank ; a divided jerusalem with guaranteed access for all to religious sites ; palestinians ’ ren unciation of the right of return ; israel ’ s willingness to dismantle settlements outside the agreed borders ; and recognition of both states across the middle east .
but suppose that the reason that no palestinians and israelis willing to conclude such a deal have emerged is that the solution itself is domestically un sup portable on both sides .
suppose that as long as a version of this deal is the only game in town , the cre eping physical expansion of the israeli state and the demographic expansion of israeli arabs will continue to erode its foundation .
for all the dire warnings that the window for a two-state solution is rapidly closing ( or has already closed ) , it is the solution itself that is the problem .
in 2008 , a princeton university graduate student in philosophy named rus sell ni el i gave a talk at the princeton center for jewish life that was so well received that he later expanded it into an article for the us-based magazine ti k k un , founded by rab bi michael l er ner .
the article , “ toward a permanent palestin i an / israeli peace – the case for two-state con domin ialism , ” was published with the express aim of stimulating “ productive thinking among a younger generation of jews and arabs not bound by the restricted vision and failed policies of the past . ”
“ two-state con domin ialism ” is as visionary as the name is cl un ky .
the core idea is that israelis and palestinians would be citizens of two separate states and thus would identify with two separate political authorities .
palestine would be defined as a state of the palestinian people , and israel as a jewish state .
under “ con domin ialism , ” however , both palestinians and jews “ would be granted the right to settle anywhere within the territory of either of the two states , the two states thus forming a single , bin ational settlement community . ”
think about that for a minute .
as ni el i describes it , palestinians “ would have the right to settle anywhere within israel just as jews would have the right to settle anywhere within the territory of the palestinian state .
regardless of which of the two states they lived in , all palestinians would be citizens of the palestinian state , all jews citizens of israel . ”
these would be extr at err it orial rights and responsibilities , just as the united states , for example , provides for its large numbers of expatri ates , such as civilian depend ents of us military personnel based abroad .
to make this work , the borders of each state would first have to be defined – presumably on the basis of the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed territorial swaps .
israeli arabs would then be required to transfer their citizenship , national identity , and national voting rights – but not their residence – to the new palestinian state .
they would have a permanent right to live in israel and would retain the benefits to which they are currently entitled as israeli citizens , but they would now vote as citizens of palestine .
all other palestinians living in israel would have rights and benefits only under palestinian law .
con domin ialism recognizes the reality of the deep interconnectedness of israeli settlers in the west bank with the rest of israel – through roads , water supplies , electricity grids , administrative structures , and economic relationships ( just as israeli and palestinian parts of jerusalem are interdependent ) .
instead of trying to separate and recre ate all of these structures and relationships , it makes far more sense to build on them in ways that benefit both states ’ peoples and economies .
and , in a world in which many citizens spend an increasing proportion of their time in virtual space , de facto con domin ialism is already happening .
in the 1950 ’ s , after four decades of war across europe , the idea of a european union in which member states ’ citizens could live and work freely across national borders while retaining their political allegiance and cultural identity seemed equally far-fetched .
( indeed , the name of the political process by which the eu was to be constructed , “ neo- func tionalism , ” was every bit as abstract and cumbersome as “ two-state con domin ialism . ” )
yet french and german statesmen sum mon ed the vision and the will to launch a bold experiment , one that has evolved into a single economy of 500 million people .
why shouldn ’ t another site of ancient enm ities be the source of a new conception of statehood ?
interestingly , many young people in the 1950 ’ s , like my belg ian mother , ard ently supported the vision of a new europe .
today ’ s young israelis and palestinians pride themselves on their entrepreneur ialism , with all the risk and vision that starting something new entails .
supporting and contributing to an innovative political start-up would be their generation ’ s defining act .
a new us agenda for latin america
mexico city – for the next american president , fixing the international mess inherited from the bush administration will be no simple task .
while latin america will not be a priority for either an obama or mccain administration , continuing the united states ’ neglect of the last seven years is no longer viable .
two distinct politi cal / diplomatic challenges stand out : cuba ’ s imminent transition or succession crisis , and the continuing ascent of the region ’ s “ two lef ts , ” one represented by venezuela ’ s president hugo chávez and the other by brazil ’ s increasingly influential president luiz inácio lula da silva .
the next us administration will only prove successful if it gras ps that latin america is living through a moment that combines the best and worst aspects of its history : the fastest economic growth since the 1970 ’ s , with poverty and inequality diminishing , and more democratic and respectful of human rights than ever before , but becoming more politically polarized .
in cuba , fidel castro ’ s eventual passing from the scene represents an immense challenge .
the us can not continue with the failed policies of the past half-century .
demanding a full-fledged democratic transition as a pre- condition for norm alizing us- cuban relations is both unrealistic and un pal atable to latin america .
yet the us can not set aside the question of democracy and human rights in cuba while it awaits the departure of fidel ’ s brother , raúl .
realpolitik and fear of another exodus of cuban refugees across the florida stra its may temp t the us to pursue a “ chinese ” or “ vietnamese ” solution to cuba : norm alizing diplomatic relations in exchange for economic reform , while leaving the question of internal political change until later .
but the us should not succumb to this temptation .
the us , canada , europe , and latin america have constructed a regional legal framework , which must not be abandoned , to defend democratic rule and human rights in the hemisphere .
cuba needs to return to the regional concert of powers , but it must accept this concert ’ s rules .
holding free and fair elections may not be the primary issue , but nor are they issues that should be shel ved in the interests of stability and expedi ency .
while the us should lift its trade embargo as soon as cuba ’ s transition begins , everything else should be conditional on cuba initiating a process of resolving all outstanding issues .
but cuba is just part of what might be called latin america ’ s “ left ” problem .
indeed , much has been written recently about the ascent of the left in latin america over the past decade .
in fact , there are two lef ts in the region : a modern , democratic , globalized and market- friendly left , found in chile , brazil , uruguay , parts of central america , and , up to a point , in peru ; and a retro grade , populist , authoritarian , stati st , and anti-american left , found in mexico , el salvador , nicaragua , cuba , ecuador , bolivia , venezuela , and , to a lesser extent , in argentina , colombia , and par agu ay .
some of these “ lef ts ” are in power ; some , as in mexico in its last , disputed presidential election , barely missed conqu ering it , but may still do so .
over the past two years , it has become increasingly evident that the “ modern ” or “ soft ” left is , all in all , governing well .
the other left has proved to be more extreme and erratic than many anticipated .
the former feels no urge to “ export ” its “ model , ” whereas the latter has a strategy and the means to do so .
the retro grade left today can realize che gu ev ara ’ s old dream : not “ one , two , many vietn ams , ” but “ one , two , many venezuel as , ” winning power by the ballot and then conserv ing and concentrating it through constitutional changes and the creation of armed militias and mon ol ith ic parties .
it can finance all of this with the support of venezuela ’ s state oil company , implementing social policies that are misguided over the long term but seduc tive in the short run , especially when carried out by cuban doctors , teachers , and instruc tors .
here in lies a dilemma for the next us president : how to address the clear rift between the two lef ts in a way that improves us- latin american relations , forti fies the modern left , and weakens the retro grade left without resorting to the failed interventionist policies of the past .
the best , strictly latin americ a- focused steps , are self- evident , if not easily achievable .
they require strengthening those governments of the modern left , or those of the center or center-right threatened by the old-fashioned left , and simultaneously making it clear to the latter that there is a price to be paid for violating the basic tenets of democracy , respect for human rights , and the rule of law .
turning its back in the face of such challenges is no longer a viable american option .
aside from areas of particular concern ( oil , arms , guerrillas , drugs ) , the us needs latin america dearly nowadays because resistance to it is spr inging up everywhere , and with greater vir ul ence than at any time since world war ii ’ s end .
the next us president must reinvigorate a relationship that is ready to be substantially transformed for the first time since franklin roosevelt ’ s good neighbor policy of seven decades ago .
a new year of global conflict
davos – in today ’ s world , identifying and managing hot spots is not simply a matter of pulling out a map , spot ting the wild fires , and empowering diplomats to dou se the flames .
to understand today ’ s major conflicts and confrontations , we must recognize important ways in which global political conditions enable them .
conflicts are much more likely to arise or persist when those with the means to prevent or end them can not or will not do so .
unfortunately , this will be borne out in 2013 .
in the united states , barring a foreign-policy crisis that directly threatens national security , president barack obama ’ s administration will focus most of its time , energy , and political capital on debt reduction and other domestic priorities .
in europe , officials will continue their struggle to restore confidence in the eurozone .
and , in china , though the demands of economic growth and job creation will force the country ’ s new leaders to develop new ties to other regions , they are far too preoccupied with the complexities of economic reform to assume unnecessary costs and risks outside asia .
that is why the world ’ s fires will burn longer and hot ter this year .
this does not mean that the world ’ s powers will not inflict damage of their own .
today , these governments are more likely to use drones and special forces to strike at their perceived enemies .
the world has grown used to us drone strikes in afghanistan , pakistan , and yemen , but recent news reports suggest that china and japan are also investing in un man ned aircraft – in part to enhance their leverage in disputes over islands in the east china sea .
by lowering the costs and risks of attack , these technological innovations make military action more likely .
that is why so many deep- poc ke ted governments – and some that are not so rich – are investing heavily in the technology and skills needed to enhance this capability .
this form of warfare is especially worrisome for two reasons .
first , unlike the structure of cold war- era “ mutually assured destruction , ” cyber weapons offer those who use them an opportunity to strike anonym ously .
second , constant changes in technology ensure that no government can know how much damage its cyber- weapons can do or how well its deterrence will work until they use them .
as a result , governments now probe one another ’ s defenses every day , increasing the risk of accidental hostilities .
if john kerry and ch uck hag el are confirmed as us secre tar ies of state and defense , respectively , the obama administration will feature two prominent skeptics of military intervention .
but high levels of us investment in drones , cyber- tools , and other unconventional weapon ry will most likely be maintained .
these technological advances create the backdrop for the competition and rivalries roiling the two most important geopolitical hot spots .
in the middle east , us and european officials will continue to resist deeper involvement in regional turmoil this year , leaving local powers – turkey , iran , and saudi arabia – to vie for influence .
confrontations between moderates and militants , and between sunni and shia factions , are playing out in several north african and middle eastern countries .
us officials have reason to believe that , over time , they will be able to worry less about the region and its problems .
according to current projections , technological innovations in unconventional energy will allow the us to meet more than 80 % of its oil demand from sources in north and south america by 2020 .
china , on the other hand , is set to become more dependent on middle eastern output .
meanwhile , east asia will remain a potential trouble spot in 2013 .
many of china ’ s neighbors fear that its ongoing economic and military expansion poses a growing threat to their interests and independence , and are reaching out to the us to diversify their security partnerships and hedge their bets on china ’ s benign intentions .
the us , eager to boost its economy ’ s longer-term prospects by engaging new trade partners in the world ’ s fastest-growing region , is shifting resources to asia – though us ( and european ) policymakers would be wise to move forward with a transatlantic free-trade agreement as well .
there is a growing risk that the new chinese leadership will interpret a heavier us presence in the region as an attempt to contain china ’ s rise and stun t its growth .
we have already seen a series of worrisome confrontations in the region , pit ting china against vietnam and the philippines in the south china sea , and against japan in the east china sea .
while these disputes are unlikely to provoke military hostilities this year , the use of drones and cyber weapons remains a real threat .
the greatest risk for 2013 is large-scale economic conflict in asia , which would not only harm the countries directly involved , but would also undermine global recovery .
the first shots in this battle have already been fired .
last summer , disputes over a string of contested islands in the east china sea led to a furious exchange of charges between china and japan , the world ’ s second-  and third-largest economies , respectively .
the two sides were never in danger of going to war , but chinese officials allowed nationalist protests to develop into boycot ts of japanese products and acts of v and alism against japanese companies .
japan ’ s automobile exports to china fell 4 4.5 % , and china ’ s imports from japan fell nearly 10 % – all in just one month .
that was a tough hit for a struggling japanese economy .
it is also a clear warning to the rest of us that a fight need not involve troops , tanks , and rockets to exact a heavy price .
a new year 's resolution
it is time for new year 's resolutions , and this year 's are obvious .
when the millennium opened , world leaders pledged to seek peace , the end of poverty , and a cleaner environment .
in 2005 , we can begin to change direction .
knowledge , scientific advance , travel , and global communications give us many opportunities to find solutions for the world 's great problems .
when a new disease called s ars hit china last year , the world health organization coordinated the actions of dozens of governments , and the crisis was quickly brought under control , at least for now .
when bill gates donated $ 1 billion to bring vaccines to poor children , he made it possible to protect tens of millions of young people from preventable diseases .
when an agricultural research unit called the world agro fore str y center discovered that a certain tree could help african farmers grow more food , they introduced a new and valuable approach to overcoming africa 's chronic food crisis .
unfortunately , such examples of international cooperation are as rare as they are impressive .
with our knowledge , science , and technology , the horr end ous living conditions of the world 's poorest people could be dramatically improved . millions of people could be spared malaria , hiv/aids , hunger , and life in slums .
the problem is not that we lack good solutions . the problem is that we fail to cooperate globally to put those solutions into practice .
united nations secretary-general kofi annan has honored me by making me his special adviser on the millennium development goals and asking me to lead a group of scholars and development experts in identifying practical steps to reach the goals by the target date in 2015 .
this effort , known as the un millennium project , will issue its report to secretary-general annan on january 17 , 2005 .
our study , investing in development : a practical plan to achieve the millennium development goals , will be available for free around the world at www. un millen ni um projec t . or g .
what we learned is easily summar ized .
for every major problem - hunger , illiteracy , malnutrition , malaria , aids , drought , and so forth - there are practical solutions that are proven and affordable .
these investments , in turn , would strengthen the private sector and economic growth .
yet they require global partnership between the rich and poor countries of the world .
most importantly , the world 's richest countries need to do much more to help the poorest countries make use of modern science and technology to solve these great problems .
the us , for example , currently spends around $ 450 billion each year on its military , but less than $ 15 billion to help the world 's poorest countries fight disease , educate their children , and protect the environment .
this is a mistake , because military approaches alone can not make america safe .
only shared prosperity can truly make the planet secure .
the us should be investing much more in peaceful economic development .
germany , japan , and several other rich countries are also doing much less than they should - and much less than they promised the poor countries that they would do .
in 2002 , all donor countries committed to `` make concrete efforts '' to reach 0.7 % of national income in development aid to poor countries .
germany , japan , and the us , among others , remain far below this commitment .
the year 2005 will offer many opportunities for citizens around the world to insist that their leaders keep their millennium promises .
after our report is issued in january , secretary-general kofi annan will issue a report to the world in the spring , identifying the practical steps that should be taken this year .
around the same time , an important commission on africa will issue a report to united kingdom prime minister tony blair .
then , in july , the uk will host the annual g-8 summit of the rich countries .
blair has promised that he will make the fight against poverty and long-term climate change the two priorities of the summit .
in september , the world 's leaders will re convene at the un to decide on their actions during the coming decade .
the us claims that it helps the world fight poverty , but instead spends its money on weapons .
germany and japan say that they want a permanent seat on the un security council , but neither has yet followed through on its own pledges to help the world 's poorest people .
the world 's poorest countries will ask themselves why they should vote for germany and japan to have permanent seats on the security council if they ca n't keep their promises .
nothing would be wiser for the world 's rich countries than to fulfill their pledges to the world 's poor , hungry and disease- ridden peoples .
there in lies the path to sustained peace .
2005 is the year that words can become reality , and that the world can begin to fulfill its hopes for our new millennium . let us make our leaders aware that we aspire to shared peace and prosperity .
let us pledge that the rich and powerful should take real actions to help the poor , the weak , and the suffering .
au f wi ed er se hen , and good ridd ance
london – she has been dubbed the queen of europe and , since us president donald trump ’ s election , the leader of the free world .
as the european union has lur ched from crisis to crisis over the past decade , german chancellor angela merkel ’ s steady hand has helped hold the bloc together .
according to the conventional wisdom , when she hands over the chancell or ship after germany ’ s next federal election in 2021 – and perhaps much sooner if her grand coalition collapses – she will be sorely missed .
however , this will hardly be the case .
merkel ’ s 13 years in office have involved domestic drift and european decay .
she has complac ently coast ed along , failing to address germany ’ s mounting economic and security challenges , and allowing europe ’ s many crises to fester .
her leth arg ic manag er ialism would be tolerable for a small country in quiet times ; it is catastrophic for europe ’ s dominant power in an era of upheaval .
unlike many european countries , germany has enjoyed solid economic growth over the past decade .
but merkel can scarcely take credit for that .
her four governments have enacted no significant growth-enhancing reforms .
and in their obsession with running a budget surplus , they have failed to invest in the country ’ s crumbling infrastructure and education system .
merkel has done nothing to prepare germany for the digital disruption that threatens to do to its manufacturing heartland – notably its car industry – what apple ’ s i phone did to nokia .
germany will regret not fixing its ro of while the sun was still shining .
the eurozone crisis greatly enhanced germany ’ s financial clout within the currency union .
that gave merkel massive political power , which she could have put to good use .
instead she put germany ’ s narrow near-term interests as a creditor first , leading her to make decisions that exacerbated the eurozone crisis , shifted its costs to others , and prevented any long-term resolution .
merkel is ultimately responsible for the eu ’ s refusal to restructure greece ’ s debts in 2010 .
she was behind the lending of european taxpayers ’ money to stricken governments to bail out german banks .
and her governments responded to financial panic by demanding extreme austerity and painful adjustments in debtor countries , even as germany ’ s current-account surplus swel led .
by eventually green- lighting european central bank president mario draghi ’ s pledge to do “ whatever it takes ” to hold the euro together , merkel did just enough to save the single currency , while leaving in place all of the flaws of a dysfunctional , incomplete monetary union .
to be sure , with trump demol ishing the liberal international order and swi vel - eyed nationalists running am ok in britain , hungary , poland , italy , and elsewhere , merkel deserves credit for offering a calm , reassuring voice of moderation .
and whereas british prime minister theresa may has humiliated herself by kow t owing to trump , merkel has spoken up for liberal , inter nationalist values .
likewise , unlike many senior politicians in germany , she has stood up to russian president vladimir putin ’ s bullying and aggressive behavior .
still , merkel ’ s tepid leadership has left germany exceptionally vulnerable to today ’ s nationalist backlash .
the country ’ s economic , political , and geopolitical security rest on precisely the three things that nationalists want to destroy : dynamic open markets for german exports ; an integrated eu that anch ors germany ’ s position in europe and the world ; and the us nuclear umbrella that ensures its defense .
germany is not a trade che at , as the trump administration has claimed .
and yet , under merkel , it certainly has pursued a beggar-thy-neighbor mercantilist growth strategy that sup presses wages and boosts exports at all costs .
yes , protectionism is misguided ; but mercantilism encourages it .
german , european , and global interests would all be served if germany were to do more to stimulate domestic demand .
similarly , merkel can not be blamed for brexit or for many of italy ’ s travails , which are of its own making .
and yet her eurozone policies are a big reason why italy now has a populist government v owing to block future eu trade deals , infl aming the refugee crisis , and threatening another eurozone panic .
the eurozone will not be secure until germany and italy can both happily share a monetary union .
this may ultimately prove to be impossible .
but if there is a workable arrangement , it will require significant reforms , as french president emmanuel macron proposed last year .
merkel ’ s spur ning of macron ’ s reform effort thus represents a tragic missed opportunity .
with respect to security , even as merkel has acknowledged that germany can no longer rely wholly on the us for its defense , she has done little to bolster german or european military capabilities .
german defense spending remains inadequate , giving trump a pretext to undermine nato .
the country ’ s ram shack le military has tanks that don ’ t drive , submarines that don ’ t di ve , and planes that don ’ t fly .
and there has scarcely been any debate about the need for a nuclear deterrent , whether german or european .
far from a tragedy , then , merkel ’ s departure represents an opportunity for european reformers .
macron and his european allies are right to focus their campaign for the european parliament election next may on the threat posed by far-right populism .
but in his desire not to upset a powerful partner , macron has so far failed to challenge merkel ’ s flawed european leadership .
with merkel on the way out , he and other reformers have a fresh chance to campaign for a different europe that works for everyone .
if they don ’ t take advantage of her exit , the char lat ans of the far right certainly will .
in defense of angela merkel
paris – the recent cover of der spi eg el showing german chancellor angela merkel in front of the ac ro pol is surrounded by nazi officers serves an important purpose : it finally poses , in a way that can not be ev aded , the question of german ophobia in europe .
the abuse of germany has dragged on for quite some time .
demonstrations in cyprus in march 2013 included ban ners bearing caric atures of merkel done up as adolf hitler .
in val en cia at around the same time , on the occasion of the annual fall as celebration , there was merkel as an evil head mist ress delivering to the head of the spanish government and his ministers “ the ten comman d ments of angela the extermin ator . ”
she ended up being burned in e ff ig y in the flames of the bon fires of st. joseph .
and , naturally , there was greece , where the phenomenon reached its apo ge e during the near- riots of october 2012 , in which the world was treated to the spectacle of nazi and german flags fl own together – and then burned – together before the ac ro pol is in scenes that pres aged the der spi eg el cover .
in italy , the right-wing daily newspaper il gi or n ale had no scru ples about de voting its headline for august 3 , 2012 , to the emergence of the “ fourth re ich . ”
likewise , conspiracy websites in the countries of northern europe claim that germany ’ s eag erness to support ukrainian president pe tr o por os henko against russian president vladimir putin is a re enactment of hitler ’ s sub jug ation of ukraine .
then there is france , where the game seems to be to see who can come out on top in populist den unci ations of the new and det est able “ german empire . ”
from the extreme right , national front leader marine le pen ch ides merkel for the “ suffering ” that she is imposing on the peoples of europe .
from the opposite extreme , we have the left party ’ s jean- luc  mé len ch on th undering against merkel ’ s “ austerity ” policy and inviting her to “ shut up . ”
the problem with this german ophobia is not simply that it is stupid , or that it is yet another symptom of the decom position , before our eyes , of the noble european project of integration and ever- closer union .
no , the problem with today ’ s german ophobia is that , contrary to what the sor cer er ’ s apprenti ces who stoke it would have us believe , their behavior is not a sign of their opposition to the true fascism that lies on the horizon , but rather of their allegiance – and even contribution – to it . why ?
there are several reasons .
for starters , to oppose germany ’ s social , economic , and foreign policies by equ ating merkel with hitler is to ban alize hitler .
however legitimate disagreement with those policies may be , germany is one of the continent ’ s most scrup ulous and exempl ary democracies .
to say that it resembles in any way the nazi regime – which in europe still stands for the destruction of democracy ( indeed , civilization itself ) – is to ex on er ate that regime , and to reassure and encourage today ’ s neo- fasci sts , allowing them , whether intentionally or not , to re enter the public debate .
what is more ( and this is key ) , those ke en est to discredit merkel just happen to be the same people who do not hesitate to wal tz with vien n ese neo- nazis or to form an alliance , as in athens , with the leaders of a genuinely extremist party .
all of the clam or raised around a germany that has supposedly “ re united with its dem ons ” mas ks the voice of fasc istic parties – from greece ’ s golden dawn to hungary ’ s job bi k , slovakia ’ s s ns , belgium ’ s v la ams bel ang , and bulgaria ’ s at aka – that are in the process of establishing themselves in europe .
it should also be noted that merkel is a woman , and that hatred for women – the disdain in which they , right alongside the jews , were regarded by the racist theore tici ans of the 1920s and 1930s – has been an essential dimension of every expression of fascism .
likewise , the slogans sl ung about in val en cia in october 2012 – with demonstrators urged to chant at the chancellor ’ s e ff ig y , “ you will love money above all else ” and “ you will honor the banks and the bank ” – had the unmistak ably f oul od or of the old man tr as about “ the golden cal f ” and the “ cosmopolitan plutocr acy . ”
people have finally come to understand that anti-americanism , born on the extreme right and fed , in germany , for example , by the philosophy of martin he ide gg er and his ac ol y tes , is a fix ture of fascism .
it is now time for us to understand that the same is true of german ophobia .
in france , it appeared with the french anti-semitic novel ist and activist maur ice barr è s , who saw in the philosophy of im manuel k ant a vehicle for the “ je wi fication ” of european minds .
it triumph ed with charles maur r as ’ action franç aise and its protracted war with “ jewish and german ic abstr actions . ”
and it culminated with the red- brown cells that , even today , on sites that i prefer not to mention , offer “ gru b ” and a “ h ide out ” for persons willing to “ bu mp off ” the “ bosses ” on the chancellor ’ s “ payroll . ”
the history of ideas has its logic , reason , and folly , its unconscious and its trajectory .
it is both futile and dangerous to deny any of them .
that is why , today , it is critically important , in the face of a dark force that is rising , swel ling , and un fur ling in europe , to defend angela merkel .
angela merkel meets the world
at long last , angela merkel is germany ’ s new – and first woman – chancellor .
although continuity will remain the hallmark of foreign policy , germany ’ s international engagement under merkel will sound and feel different from that under gerhard schroeder ’ s leadership .
schroeder came to power seven years ago representing a new generation whose form ative experience was not the cold war , european integration , and transatlantic friendship , but german unification and the restoration of national sovereignty .
for him and the team that took over after helmut kohl ’ s 16 -year reign , germany had become a normal country , no different from other european heav y weights like france or britain .
the lesson that schroeder drew was to insist that germany could no longer be taken for granted and would demand a role commensurate to its size and weight .
self- assertion became the watch word of german foreign policy .
thus , when schroeder claimed special circumstances for germany ’ s failure to meet the budgetary ce il ings of the european union ’ s stability and growth pact , he seemed to be arguing that the restrictions should apply only to smaller countries , not to the big players .
when he rightly opposed america ’ s war against iraq , the pride of standing up to the world 's only superpower was palpable .
when he established a close personal and political relationship with russian president vladimir putin , he signaled to the world – and to the eu ’ s sensitive new eastern european members – that germany ’ s foreign policy would no longer be constrained by the past .
in fairness , it should be acknowledged that it was under schroeder that germany shed hes itations to deploy soldiers abroad .
his support for international crisis missions in kosovo , bosnia , or afghanistan required considerable political courage and made germany one of the major contributors to international stability efforts .
to have removed the issue from domestic ideological controversy ranks as a major achievement of schroeder ’ s tenure .
but it was also meant to convey that germany had grown up into a proper international power .
with merkel , the substance of germany ’ s foreign policy will change little , but the assertive style will be muted .
american leaders will welcome her election as proof that the estr ang ement in bilateral relations is over .
but that alienation already largely ended earlier this year , when the bush administration realized that allies are good to have and that germany is an important one .
merkel will re introduce the warm th that has been missing under schroeder , but she will not become america ’ s y es- woman .
nor will she abandon special relations with russia , to which every german chancellor since aden auer has attached major importance .
but she has already made clear that germany ’ s neighbors to the east will have no reason not feel byp assed .
she may even want to confirm that message by making her first official trip abroad not to paris but to warsaw or vil ni us .
on the european project , she is as committed to integration as her predecessors have been .
she will continue to emphasize close relations with france because there is no alternative ; britain , absent from the euro zone and the schengen border regime , remains the odd man- in of the eu .
but there will be no new initiatives on integration until leaders in the countries that rejected the constitutional treaty are ready for a new try .
then merkel will be in a key position to add weight to a new effort for moving the eu forward .
she will continue to favor the eventual admission of the balkan states , but she has left no doubt of her opposition to full membership for turkey , which is the major substantive change from the schroeder era ( although her government will not block the start of negotiations in early october ) .
in fact , there is very little merkel has to do after her election to make her mark on foreign policy ; the visible change of style will suffice , at least at first .
in any case , she will have her hands full pushing through the economic reforms for which she will be elected and which are her top priority .
there are indications that germany is finally emerging from years of economic stagnation , not least thanks to the reforms started under schroeder .
at home , merkel can hope to reap the rewards .
abroad , merkel has no need to demonstrate that germany is a big country in europe ; her partners are fully aware of this .
but it is also more than just a normal country : germany remains central to holding together the two international institutions that will continue to assure its well-being , the european union and the atlantic alliance .
there are some indications that merkel is more aware of this then schroeder was .
one can only hope that this recognition will serve as her gu ide post when tough decisions must be made and changes in style alone will not be enough .
madrid – upon albert einstein ’ s death in 195 5 , the new york times published a letter to the editor with a mar vel ous anec dote .
shortly after the atomic bombs had fallen on hiroshima and nagasaki , einstein was asked , “ why is it that when the mind of man has stretched so far as to discover the structure of the at om we have been unable to devise the political means to keep the at om from destroying us ? ”
his answer was tim eless : “ that is simple , my friend . it is because politics is more difficult than physics . ”
as a former student of physics in east germany , german chancellor angela merkel was able to confirm the truth of einstein ’ s qu ip firsthand when she went into politics .
i hum bly believe that i can attest to the same , as my own life has followed a somewhat similar path .
just as i had done in spain a few years before , merkel reacted to the collapse of the dictatorship she lived in by leaving physics to embrace public service . eventually , she got caught up in the wh ir l wind of european politics .
in her various public roles , and throughout 13 years as chancellor , merkel has always maintained a method ical and reflec tive style that suits her scientific background .
but world politics seems to be diver ging from that style , and increasing ag itation in germany has taken a toll on her standing .
last month , merkel announced that she would not be seeking another term as chancellor , and that at the end of this year , she would step down as leader of the christian democratic union ( cdu ) .
the race to replace her has already begun .
merkel ’ s successors may well be worthy of filling her shoes , but there is no doubt that germany and the rest of europe will sorely miss her compos ure and stead iness .
much has been said about merkel ’ s achievements and failures .
the greatest blo t on her record may be the austerity policies that her government promoted in the european union after the global financial crisis .
those policies increased inequality , deepened the divide between northern and southern member states , and slowed economic recovery .
since then , populists – particularly the governing five star mov em ent / league coalition in italy – have seized on the painful legacy of austerity for their own political gain .
similarly , some blame merkel for the rise of far-right parties , including the alternative fü r deutsch land ( afd ) within germany itself .
after welcoming over one million refugees in 2015 , merkel became the b ê te no ire of nationalist anti-immigrant forces across europe .
needless to say , however , there is a stark contrast between her advocacy of austerity and her decisions at the height of the refugee crisis .
in the latter case , merkel put her own political future on the line to defend european solidarity at a time when other countries no longer seemed willing to do so .
in a recent address to the european parliament , merkel once again stood up for the eu ’ s found ational values .
she joined french president emmanuel macron – with whom she showed great rap port at the commemor ation of the ar mis tice day cent ennial in paris – in his call to form a european army .
as both macron and merkel have made clear , such a force would not only be compatible with nato ; it would actually strengthen the organization .
predictably , however , merkel ’ s ambitious speech elic ited scor n from euroskeptics , who would much rather see the eu succumb to despair and political opportun ism .
in light of her announced departure , some already regard merkel as a “ l ame duck ” whose legacy will now be debated in political ob itu aries .
yet these e ul og ies are premature : there is good reason to believe that she is not yet done forging her european legacy .
to be sure , merkel ’ s successor at the head of the cdu may not be closely aligned with her positions , and could inject more instability into the coalition government with the christian social union ( the cdu ’ s bav ari a- based sister party ) and the social democrats ( spd ) .
but even under those circumstances , merkel would have a few cards up her sle eve .
for starters , a no- confidence vote in germany can not succeed unless an alternative candidate wins the backing of an absolute majority in the bundestag .
that has happened only once – when helmut kohl of the cdu replaced helmut schmidt of the spd as chancellor in 1982 – and it would be extremely unlikely in a parliament that is as fragmented as the current bundestag .
she remains very popular on the international scene .
and , liberated from electoral pressures , at least of a kind focusing on her directly , she may feel freer to pursue a more proactive foreign policy .
recall that it was during his final years in office that us president barack obama achieved some of his biggest milest ones in foreign policy .
in addition to restoring diplomatic relations with cuba , the obama administration concluded the nuclear deal with iran and signed the paris climate agreement .
though president donald trump has sought to reverse these accomplishments , he has not been able to con sign them to history .
for the eu , it would be healthy if merkel were to continue revit alizing the franco-german axis , thereby opening the door to eu- level reform .
nevertheless , there are significant obstacles ahead .
in this day and age , it is abundantly clear that politics is more difficult than physics .
however , we would do well not to underestimate merkel , and to heed another tim eless einstein quote : “ in the middle of difficulty lies opportunity . ”
angela merkel ’ s vision thing
cambridge – as europe struggles to save the euro , the chorus of complaints about weak leadership in the world ’ s major economies grows louder .
many have singled out german chancellor angela merkel for failing to promote a vision of europe similar to that of her predecessor and ment or , helmut kohl .
are the critics right ?
part of what effective leaders do is communicate a vision that gives meaning to policies and inspires others to support these policies ( and those who propose them ) .
it is one of the ways in which leaders help to create shared objectives and energ ize common action .
usually , such a vision provides a scenario for the future that is meant to encourage change , though it may also portray the status quo – or the past – as attractive , thereby encouraging resistance to change .
either way , without a vision , it is difficult to lead others anywhere .
fre der ick smith , ceo of federal express , has argued that “ the primary task of leadership is to communicate the vision and values of an organization . ”
but one must be cautious about visions .
sometimes leaders think that vision can solve most of their problems , but the wrong vision – or an overly ambitious vision – can do damage .
george h.w . bush was fa ulted ( and fa ulted himself ) for not having what he called “ the vision thing . ”
when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansi vely , he replied , “ it ’ s just not me . ”
after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision .
as one former adviser put it , he was “ irresis ti bly drawn to big ideas like bringing democracy to the middle east , big ideas that stood in sharp contrast to the prudent small ball played by his father . ”
yet the el der bush turned out to have had the better foreign policy .
some aspiring leaders think that they must proclaim a vision that over aw es their followers . in practice , however , a successful vision often arises from the needs of the group , which are then formulated and articulated by the leader .
the vision that martin luther king , jr. , expressed in his “ i have a dream ” speech , for example , was deeply rooted not only in america ’ s prof essed values of equality and inclusion , but also in african- americ ans ��  experience of sub ordination and exclusion .
at the same time , the pressure to articulate a vision can get a leader into difficulty .
as one university president put it : “ everyone asks , ‘ what ’ s your vision ? ’
the smart response at the beginning is , ‘ what do you think ? ’ and then listen before you articulate your vision . ”
a successful vision has to be attractive to various circles of followers and stakeholders .
what plays well with one group may not sit well with another .
and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces .
leaders must get the question right before proposing answers .
to choose goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not only to sol icit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices .
they must be able to assess reality accurately .
the boldness of a vision varies with the type of leadership involved .
leaders of social movements can call forth larger visions than public officials can .
a movement leader can promote a vision that is miles ahead of his followers , while a prime minister with multiple objectives and responsibilities must maintain a continuous dialogue with the public , which keeps him or her from moving too far ahead of citizens .
after former us vice president al gore lost his bid for the presidency in 2000 , he became a leader of the social movement to combat global climate change , and his style changed from pragmatic to inspir ational and prop he tic .
analysts judge a government leader ’ s vision in terms of whether it creates a sensible balance between realism and risk , and whether it balances objectives with capabilities .
anyone can produce a wish list , but effective visions combine inspiration with fea sibility .
critics of former british prime minister tony blair , for example , acknowledged that his ability to articulate a vision was one of his great strengths as a leader , but complained about his lack of attention to detail .
similarly , two twentieth-century us presidents , woodrow wilson and george w. bush , were good at articul ating an ambitious foreign-policy vision , but were poor at refin ing and reshaping their vision when they encountered implementation challenges .
both promoted democracy , but both did so in a manner that generated a backlash against democracy promotion .
of course , prudence is not enough .
sometimes leaders need to stretch the boundaries of realism to inspire their followers and call forth extra effort , as winston churchill did in great britain in 1940 .
but , without a degree of prudence based upon compreh ension of the context , visions turn from grand to grandiose and undercut the values that they seek to promote .
like franklin roosevelt , who acted very cau tiously in trying to persuade american opinion to abandon isolationism in the 1930 ’ s , merkel has proceeded cau tiously on saving the euro .
she faced public skepticism about using german funds to bail out the greek economy .
her coalition was divided on the issue , and her party lost state elections .
if she had acted more boldly , she might have lost even more support , but the steps that she agreed to remained insufficient to reassure markets .
at the end of october , however , she finally articulated a vision of the future of europe that persuaded the german bundestag to agree to a package of measures to save the euro .
whether she waited too long – and whether her vision will prove convincing – will be determined in the coming months .
no more res ets
washington , dc – with ukraine in turmoil and the united states and russia war ily eye ing each other ’ s every move , the world seems to be on the brink of a prolonged confrontation similar to the cold war .
but is it ?
russia , accusing the west of supporting a coup d ’ é tat by “ fasci sts ” and “ terrorists ” in kyiv , has annexed crimea , tested an inter- continental ballistic missile , and reserved the right to intervene militarily in eastern ukraine to protect the russian population there .
but it has also called for cooperation to resolve the situation peacefully and declared that ukraine should pursue productive ties with both russia and the west .
so far , the russians have dismissed those sentiments .
yet this is not the start of cold war ii , and russia is not america ’ s antagon ist .
but nor is it an ally .
the two sides disagree on a wide range of questions .
yet there are critical international issues – such as iran and syria – on which progress is not likely without some cooperation .
the challenge is not to try again to “ reset ” bilateral relations , but rather to find – once the ukrainian crisis ab ates – a basis on which the two sides can collaborate where their interests overlap .
but we have to be realistic .
every us president since 1992 has sought to ref ash ion the us- russian relationship and move it beyond the ideological and military competition of the cold war .
but each attempt , while producing some results , ended in disappointment .
a key reason is that the us and russia have fundamentally different understandings of what an improved relationship would look like .
in re viewing these efforts , one constant stands out : the us has made the most progress on issues where russia has felt that america respected its interests .
the first diplomatic reset , at the end of george h.w . bush ’ s presidency , took major steps toward def using the nuclear dangers resulting from the collapse of the soviet union .
as a result , russia remained the only nuclear state in the post-soviet space , while legislation pioneered by then- us senators sam n un n and richard lu gar helped to secure nuclear sites , scientists , and materials .
the second reset , under president bill clinton , was more ambitious : a full-fledged effort to create a partnership that promoted substantial us involvement in russia ’ s economy and evolving political system .
it also involved persuading a reluctant russia to support two nato interventions in the balkans .
but the second war over kosovo in 1999 led to the collapse of that reset .
the third reset came at russian president vladimir putin ’ s initiative , when he offered russian assistance in the campaign in afghanistan after the terror attacks of september 11 , 2001 .
but the expectations of george w. bush ’ s administration were very different from putin ’ s .
russia sought an “ equal partnership of un equals , ” especially us recognition of russia ’ s sphere of influence in its neighborhood .
instead , russia had to deal with the iraq war , nato enlargement to the baltic states , pro-western revolutions in ukraine and georgia , and the bush administration ’ s “ freedom agenda ” aimed at global democratization .
the kremlin viewed with great apprehension the specter of regime change , especially in its neighborhood .
by the time this reset ended in the rubble of the 2008 russia- georgia war , the us had come to view russia as a global spoil er .
the obama administration ’ s reset – the fourth since the soviet collapse – was the most successful , at least during the president ’ s first term in office .
with more realistic expectations , it achieved results : the new start arms control treaty , tougher sanctions on iran , cooperation on transportation to and from afghanistan , and russia ’ s accession to the world trade organization .
but this reset was largely facilitated by the personal ties between obama and dmitri medvedev , who served as president for four years before putin returned in 2012 for a third term .
when putin blamed the us for the opposition demonstrations that accompanied his return , the relationship began to deteriorate .
with the kremlin ’ s decision last august to grant temporary asylum to the former us intelligence contractor edward j. snowden , the reset ended .
the ideological antagonism of the cold war may be gone , but russia now defines itself as an alternative civil iz ational and social model .
the kremlin also views the us as a source of instability in the former soviet space and blames the west for the ukrainian unrest .
nonetheless , the us- russia relationship has always been compar t ment alized , and there are pressing multilateral issues on which the us must work with russia , particularly syria , iran , and afghanistan ( where the us will withdraw its troops this year ) .
whereas the us and russia disagree about how to end the syrian civil war , they have cooper ated in dis arming syria of its chemical weapons .
similarly , neither side wants to see iran develop a nuclear-weapons capability .
the past two decades of bilateral great expectations , followed by ser ial disap pointments , suggest that , once the ukraine crisis is resolved , more modest and realistic us goals toward russia are in order .
unless and until both countries move beyond the legacies of the cold war , the 1990 ’ s , and today ’ s crisis , any reset – regardless of whether it origin ates in the white house or the kremlin – can at best manage more effectively what will remain a limited and trying relationship .
for the us , this means recognizing russia for what it is : a large , still- important country with a hybrid political system and serious domestic economic , demographic , and political challenges .
russia ’ s post-soviet evolution is a matter of many decades and will not occur in a linear fashion .
its worldview is sharply at odds with that of the us and will remain so for the foreseeable future .
but a cold peace is preferable to a cold war .
pis a ’ s promise
paris – by assessing the capabilities and knowledge of students in the highest- performing and most rapidly improving education systems , the oecd ’ s program for international student assessment provides valuable options for reform and information on how to achieve it .
pis a brings together policymakers , educators , and researchers from around the world to discuss what knowledge students need to become successful and responsible citizens in today ’ s world , and how to develop more effective , inclusive education systems .
some claim that the pis a results are based on too wide a range of factors to be relevant , while others point out the challenges inherent in testing students in various languages and with different cultural backgrounds .
of course , comparing education across countries is not easy , but pis a remains the most useful tool yet developed for policymakers attempting to improve their national education systems .
before pis a , many governments claimed that they over saw the world ’ s most successful education systems , and insisted that they had already taken the steps needed to address any shortcomings .
by exposing weaknesses in a particular country ’ s system , pis a assessments help to ensure that policymakers recognize – and , it is hoped , address – remaining deficiencies .
the sense of accountability that pis a fosters among governments and education ministers has helped to spur them into action .
they increasingly turn to one another to learn how to apply innovations in curricula , ped agog y , and digital resources ; how to offer personalized learning experiences that maximize every student ’ s chances of success ; and how to cope with diversity in the classroom .
the oecd established pis a as a global assessment , because in today ’ s globalized world students must be able to collaborate with people from diverse backgrounds and appreciate different ideas , perspectives , and values .
to give students the best possible chance to succeed , education must prepare them to handle issues that transcend national boundaries .
but pis a ’ s most important outcomes lie at the national level , because it inspires innovation and broad ens educational perspectives within countries .
education systems as diverse as those in finland , japan , china , and canada – which seldom registered on policymakers ’ rad ars before – have become global reference points for excellence in education , helping other countries to design effective reforms .
when brazil emerged as the low est- performing education system in the first pis a assessment , released in 2000 , many people rightly questioned the fairness of comparing an emerging economy to advanced countries like finland and japan .
but brazil rose to the challenge , making massive investments in improving the quality of teaching .
the country now boasts one of the world ’ s most rapidly improving education systems .
germany also featured in pis a 2000 , recording below- average performance and large social inequalities in education – an outcome that stunned germans and initiated a mon th s- long public debate .
spurred into action , the government launched initiatives to support disadvantaged and immigrant students , and made the notion of early childhood education a driving force in german education policy .
today , pis a reports confirm that the quality and fairness of germany ’ s education system have improved considerably .
for example , pis a assessments have revealed that , while japanese students exc el at re producing what they have learned , they often struggle when asked to extrapol ate from that knowledge and apply it cre atively .
the effort that this has inspired to create more innovative learning environments was apparent last april , during a visit to the to ho k u schools destroyed by the 2011 tsunami .
this experience offers yet another lesson : even in cases where social and cultural factors seem to be the main force shaping a country ’ s education style , improvements are possible .
countries like japan do not have to change their cultures to address their educational shortcomings ; they simply have to adjust their policies and practices .
creating a global platform for collaboration in education research and innovation has been the pis a initiative ’ s aspiration from its conception in the late 1990s .
since then , policymakers , researchers , and experts have built the world ’ s largest professional network dedicated to the development of robust , reliable , and internationally comparable information on student learning outcomes .
at the same time , pis a measures students ’ social and emotional skills and attitudes toward learning , as well as educational equity and parental support – all of which provides indispensable context for understanding scores on international assessments .
of course , assessments do not cover every important skill or attitude .
but there is convincing evidence that the knowledge and skills that the pis a system ass esses are essential to students ’ future success , and the oecd works continuously to broaden the range of cognitive and social skills that pis a measures .
pis a has already prompted important advances in education worldwide .
the oecd will continue to work with the 80 participating countries to develop the program further , so that it can continue to help policymakers and educators design and implement better education policies – and give their citizens access to the tools that they need to build better lives .
the zero- emissions imperative
davos – our planet is warming dangerously .
and , as the 2013 report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change makes clear , our carbon-dioxide emissions over the past half-century are extremely likely to be to blame .
a more robust approach to global warming is needed if we are to avoid catastrophe .
unlike the recent financial crisis , there is no bailout option for the earth ’ s climate .
three years ago , at the united nations c op 16 climate-change meeting in canc ú n , countries agreed to reduce their emissions by 2020 to a point that would prevent the average global temperature from rising more than 2°c above pre-industrial levels .
however , un estimates show that current trends would bring the world only 25- 50 % of the way to this target .
this is why i am calling on all governments to be more ambitious – to aim for zero net emissions from fossil fuels by the second half of this century .
nothing short of a wholesale transformation of the energy economy will suffice .
just this week , the european commission unveiled new energy and climate targets for 2030 – calling for a 40 % reduction in the bloc ’ s greenhouse-gas emissions from 1990 levels , with 27 % of energy to come from renewable sources .
this is an extremely important step , and more countries should follow suit .
to be sure , we will encounter huge obstacles .
two-thirds of electricity generation , and nearly 95 % of the energy consumed by the world ’ s transport systems , comes from fossil fuels .
our energy security is increasingly tied to the exploitation of unconventional fossil-fuel deposits like shale gas , especially in the united states .
carbon- intensive technologies remain more profitable than low-carbon alternatives in many cases .
and cash-strapped governments continue to encourage oil and gas exploration , in part because the rents received by some account for a large part of their revenues .
but change is possible .
there is a yawning gap between what governments promise to do about climate change and their often- inconsistent ( if not incoherent ) policies .
i believe we can make substantial and rapid progress by setting a clear direction on three issues :
put a price on carbon .
by pricing the cost of carbon , we can manage its use ( or dis use ) .
more than 40 countries have already implemented some form of carbon tax or emissions- trading scheme .
trading schemes are often politically more attractive , because they can be flexible ( although their design and implementation could be improved in many cases ) .
but we can be bolder .
several governments have successfully introduced carbon taxes without adversely affecting growth , and we should encourage more countries to follow their example .
cut fossil-fuel subsidies .
the oecd estimates that fossil-fuel subsidies in member countries amounted to $ 5 5- 90 billion annually from 2005 to 2011 .
and the international energy agency estimates that in 2012 fossil-fuel subsidies worldwide grew to $ 5 44 billion .
most of these subsidies should be scr apped ; the energy industry does not need more state aid to burn fossil fuels ( and , in developing and emerging economies , subsidies are a grossly inefficient and probably unnecessary way to help the poor ) .
clarify policies .
governments must address in consist encies in their energy strategies , consider the links with broader economic policies , and stop sending mixed signals to consumers , producers , and investors .
in particular , they must assess whether the right regulatory arrangements are in place to allow clean-energy investments to compete on a risk- return basis .
this will be essential if investors are to redirect investment toward climate- friendly alternatives .
the oecd will play its part .
in order to understand and compare countries ’ performan ces more accurately , oecd economic surveys will now include data and analysis of climate policies .
by mid- 2015 , we expect to have a clear picture of the progress being made and the challenges that remain in oecd countries and all major emerging economies – and to have advised these countries how they can realistically increase the ambition and cost- effectiveness of their policies .
these steps will signal that the price of emissions must rise substantially if we are to reach our goal of zero net emissions .
the transformation will not be cost less , and governments must be frank with their electorates about its social and economic impact .
but a low-carbon , climate- resilient world will also offer new economic opportunities .
more important , the alternative – inaction , or too little action – would be far more expensive in the long run .
hurricane sandy , for example , cost the us the equivalent of 0.5 % of its gdp .
the annual bill for flood protection in coastal cities worldwide is likely to rise above $ 50 billion by 2050 .
the consequences for developing countries are more dire : typho on ha i yan , which hit the philippines in 2013 , was a stark reminder of how vulnerable poor countries can be to climate change .
if the world is to avoid a collision with nature – one that humanity surely can not win – we must act boldly on every front , particularly with respect to carbon pricing and the coherence of our economic and energy policies .
and we must do so now .
anger in america
hong kong – many blame today ’ s populist rebellion in the west on the far right , which has won votes by claiming to be responding to working-class grievances , while stoking fear and promoting polarization .
two recent analyses get to the heart of the issues at play , particularly in the united states , but also in the rest of the world .
in his new book tail spin , the journalist steven br ill argues that us institutions are no longer fit for purpose , because they protect only the few and leave the rest vulnerable to predatory behavior in the name of the free market .
according to br ill , this is an up shot of america ’ s meritocracy : the best and brightest had the chance to climb to the top , but then essentially pulled the ladder up behind them , as they captured democratic institutions and used them to entren ch special privileges for themselves .
the author mat the w stewar t agrees , arguing that , “ the meritocratic class has ma stered the old trick of consolidating wealth and passing privilege along at the expense of other people ’ s children . ”
stewar t shows that in the mid- 1980s , the share of us wealth held by the bottom 90 % of the population peaked at 35 % ; three decades later , they owned just 20 % , with almost all of what they lost going to the top 0.1 % .
the 9. 9 % between these two groups – what stewar t calls the “ new american arist ocracy ” – comprises what used to be called the middle class .
in 1963 , the 90 % would have had to increase their wealth six fold to reach the level of the 9. 9 % ; by the 201 0s , they would need 25 times their wealth to reach that level .
much of the us population is working harder than ever , yet has suffered a decline in living standards , compounded by high levels of household debt and , in many cases , lack of health insurance .
the top 10 % have easy access to higher education that will enable their children to have the same privileges as them ; the bottom 90 % must work much harder to cover sky-high tu ition fees , and typically graduate with a heavy debt burden .
the top 10 % receive first- rate medical care ; the bottom 90 % often do not , or must pay an exceptionally high price for it .
taxation is supposed to level the playing field .
but us republicans have long pushed to lower taxes on the rich , arguing that lowering marginal tax rates will promote investment , employment , and economic growth , which will cause the wealth to “ trick le down ” to the rest of society .
in fact , tax cuts for the rich merely further entren ch their advantages , exacerbating inequality .
making matters worse , the poor pay more indirect taxes ( on land , real estate , and consumer goods ) , and the bottom 20 % of the us population pays more than twice what the top 1 % pays in state taxes .
add to that the challenges posed by automation and robo tization , not to mention increasingly frequent and intense natural disasters , and it is not hard to see why so many people are so furious .
according to stewar t , the 9. 9 % is “ the staff that runs the machine that fun n els resources from the 90 % to the 0.1 % , ” happily taking its “ cut of the spo ils . ”
but the inequality that this machine generates can have serious consequences , as it spur s social discontent and , as we are seeing in the us today , erratic policymaking .
as the austrian historian wal ter sch e id el argues , inequality has historically been countered through war , revolution , state collapse , or natural disaster .
avoiding such a dramatic event would require the 10 % to do a much better job of advancing the interests of the 90 % , in terms of income , wealth , welfare , and opportunities .
yet a combination of economic my opia and political polarization has led many instead to try to divert popular anger toward immigrants , china , and trade ( including with close allies ) .
as a result , the entire world is now caught in an escalating protectionist war that nobody will win .
it is true that , historically , internal contradictions and imbalances have often led to inter state conflict .
but that is not inevitable .
rather , the outcome depends on the quality of leadership .
in the us , for example , george washington , abraham lincoln , and franklin d. roosevelt succeeded in strengthening their country because they recognized the need to address internal divisions in the light of america ’ s core values , global position , and long-term goals .
us president donald trump has exploited popular anger to advance his own interests .
but he did not create that anger ; america ’ s elites have spent decades doing that , creating the conditions for a figure like trump to emerge .
now that trump is in charge , the conditions of the 90 % are set to deteriorate further .
his approach to trade , in particular , will not only fail to help the people he pur ports to represent ; it will also destroy the sense of fairness and stewardship that has historically bound the masses to their leaders .
but the only way to “ make america great again ” is by addressing its internal injustices . no import tariff or border wall can do that .
rethinking animal agriculture
t as man ia – in mid- july , as a brutal drought decimated crops , some european dairy and meat farmers were forced to cul l their her ds early to reduce the number of animals they needed to feed .
such desperate decisions will become routine in a world where heat waves will be longer , hot ter , dr ier , and more frequent .
that is why now is the right time to start a serious conversation about animal agriculture .
the animal agriculture industry is not only vulnerable to the observed and predicted effects of climate change ; it is also a key contributor to the problem .
in fact , the farming of animals for meat and dairy products accounts for 16 .5 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions .
moreover , if we treated climate change as the emergency it is and were serious about slowing the pace of warming over the next 20 years , the proportional influence of livestock farming would be even greater .
this is because the animal sector is responsible for a third of all anthropo gen ic methane and two-thirds of nit rous oxide emissions – both potent greenhouse gases that trap more heat than carbon dioxide .
beyond climate pollution , a staggering 60 % of all biodiversity loss is attributable to land-use changes from animal cultiv ation , and as much as 80 % of all land in farming is devoted either to raising animals or to growing their feed .
there is also the stubborn reality that eating so many animals is making us less healthy .
we can do better without great sacrifice .
according to recent research by cha tham house , for example , people in developed countries would accept reducing their meat in take if convenient and tast y alternatives were available for about the same price .
to be clear , i am not suggesting that everyone should become vege tarian or veg an ( though it is indisput able that these diets are better for the environment , contribute less to climate change , and are healthier ) .
nor do i think that governments should mandate limits on meat consumption .
but for policymakers who accept that there is little downside and significant upside for most people in developed countries to reduce their meat in take , there are plenty of cost-effective solutions to nudge us in that direction .
for starters , governments can – and should – stop subsidizing factory farming and the crops that f att en up factor y- farm ed animals for slaughter .
by supporting polluting and in humane practices , countries are literally paying companies to undermine the emissions targets set by the 2015 paris climate agreement .
instead , governments can – and should – shift subsidies to encourage the production of more climate- neutral , prote in- rich crops , like pul ses and other leg um es .
by planting more beans , pe as , and l enti ls , farmers would help combat climate change by lowering greenhouse-gas emissions , and would benefit from crops that are more resilient to dr ier , warmer weather .
government support can also be diverted from factory meat farms toward development of plan t- based “ me ats ” and other meat alternatives .
the market for “ clean meat ” is nascent but burgeoning , and the public response has been overwhelmingly positive to some of the more advanced products on the market .
still , just like the fossil-fuel industry , meat industry advocates have pushed policymakers to block the main stre aming of alternatives .
in many countries , lobbyists have even successfully championed the prohibition of me at -based names for plan t- based products .
for example , france recently banned terms like veg an “ bur ger ” and “ ste ak ” on the grounds that only animal meat could be either .
such policies are a clear barrier to reducing meat consumption , and they contradict countries ’ commitment to meet their par is- agreement targets .
the meat sector ’ s support for them puts it in the same role as the fossil-fuel industry , focused on nothing more than its own bottom line .
or can producers engage as a positive force in the transition away from meat ?
when it comes to climate policy , food and agriculture should be treated more like energy and transportation , both of which have clear guidance on how to address climate change and reduce emissions .
we are two years away from the first major report to gauge progress under the paris agreement .
countries will have to show what they have done and what they are doing to cut their emissions .
but they will leave a huge part of the problem un touched if they fail to address the production and consumption of meat and dairy .
meanwhile , european farmers will suffer through more droughts like the one they endured this summer , as will other food producers around the world .
it will become harder and harder to farm meat and dairy products , and early cul ls will become the new normal .
as with fossil fuels , our only choice is to overcome the industry ’ s defensive resistance and transform our food system so that it enables diets that are healthier , cleaner , and every bit as del icious .
an imf we can love ?
cambridge – what a difference the crisis has made for the international monetary fund .
it was just a few months ago that this important but un loved institution , a landmark of post-war global economic arrangements , seemed destined to ir relevance .
the imf has long been a wh ipping boy for both left and right – the former because of the fund ’ s emphasis on fiscal rec titude and economic orthodoxy , and the latter because of its role in bailing out indebted nations .
developing nations grudg ingly took its advice , while advanced nations , not needing the money , ignored it .
in a world where private capital flows dwar f the resources at its disposal , the imf had come to seem an anachron ism .
and , when some of the imf ’ s largest debtors ( brazil and argentina ) began to pre pay their debts a few years ago with no new borrowers in sight , it looked like the final nail in the coff in had been struck .
the imf seemed condemned to run out of income , in addition to losing its rais on d ’ ê tre .
it shrank its budgets and began to down size , and , while it was handed some new responsibilities in the meantime – surveillance over “ currency manipulation , ” in particular – its deliberations proved largely irrelevant .
but the crisis has invigor ated the imf .
under its capable managing director , dominique straus s- kahn , the fund has been one of the few official agencies ahead of – instead of behind – the curve .
it moved quickly to establish a fast- disbur sing emergency line of credit for countries with “ reasonable ” policies . it ard ently championed global fiscal stimulus on the order of 2 % of world gnp – a position that is all the more remarkable in view of its traditional conservatism on all fiscal matters .
and , in the run-up to the g-20 summit in london , it thoroughly overha uled its lending policies , de- emphasizing traditional conditionality and making it easier for countries to qualify for loans .
even more significantly , the imf has emerged from the london meeting with substantially greater resources , as well as new responsibilities .
the g-20 promised to triple the fund ’ s lending capacity ( from $ 250 billion to $ 750 billion ) , issue $ 250 billion of new special drawing rights ( a reserve asset made up of a basket of major currencies ) , and permit the fund to borrow in capital markets ( which it has never done ) if necessary .
the imf was also designated as one of two lead agencies – along with an expanded financial stability forum ( now ren amed the financial stability board ) – charged with providing early warning of macroeconomic and financial risks and issuing the requ isite policy recommendations .
another piece of good news is that the europeans have now given up their claim on naming the imf ’ s managing director ( as have the americans their corresponding claim on the world bank presidency ) .
these senior officials are h enc e forth to be selected “ through an open , transparent , and merit -based selection process . ”
this will provide for better governance ( although straus s- kahn ’ s leadership has been exempl ary ) , and will enhance both institutions ’ legitimacy in the eyes of developing nations .
so the imf now finds itself at the center of the economic universe once again .
how will it choose to deploy its newfound power ?
the greatest risk is that it will once again over- reach and over- play its hand .
that is what happened in the second half of the 1990 ’ s , as the imf began to pre ach capital-account liberalization , applied over- stringent fiscal remedies during the asian financial crisis , and single- han de dly tried to reshape asian economies .
but it remains to be seen if the lessons have been fully intern alized , and whether we will have a kin der , gent ler imf in li eu of a rigid , doctr in aire one .
one encouraging fact is that developing countries will almost certainly get a larger say in how the fund is run .
this will ensure that poorer nations ’ views receive a more sympathetic hearing in the future .
but simply giving developing nations greater voting power will make little difference if the imf ’ s organizational culture is not changed as well .
the fund is staff ed by a large number of smart economists , who lack much connection to ( and appreciation for ) the institutional realities of the countries on which they work .
their professional expertise is valid ated by the quality of their advanced degrees , rather than by their achievements in practical policymaking .
this breeds arrogance and a sense of smu g superiority over their counterparts – policymakers who must balance multiple , complicated agendas .
countering this will require proactive efforts by the imf ’ s top leadership in recruitment , staff ing , and promotion .
one option would be to increase substantially the number of mid- career recruits with actual practical experience in developing countries .
this would make the imf staff more cogn iz ant of the value of local knowledge relative to theoretical expertise .
another strategy would be to relocate some of the staff , including those in functional departments , to “ regional offices ” in the field .
this move would likely face considerable resistance from staff who have gotten used to the per ks of washington , dc .
but there is no better way to appreciate the role of context than to live in it .
the world bank , which engaged in a similar decentralization a while back , has become better at serving its clients as a result ( without facing difficulties in recruiting top talent ) .
this is an important moment for the imf .
the international community is putting great store in the fund ’ s judgment and performance .
the fund will require internal reforms to earn that trust fully .
leveling the afghan playing field
new york – afghanistan ’ s security and political situation remains plagued by uncertainty , stemming from the withdrawal of united states and nato combat troops , the upcoming presidential election , and the stalled peace negotiations with the taliban .
recognizing that continued economic insecurity will exacerbate this perilous situation , the government has announced a new package of economic incentives aimed at attracting foreign direct investment .
the package includes the provision of land to industri alists at dramatically reduced prices , tax exemptions of up to seven years for factory owners , and low- interest loans of up to ten years for farmers .
such incentives are targeted at foreign investors and the local elite , with the aim of stopping or even reversing capital flight .
but the new measures ultimately amount to more of the same : a fragmented policy approach that will prove inadequate to solve afghanistan ’ s fundamental economic problems .
in the early stages of the post-war transition , fdi increased rapidly , rising from 1.2 % of gdp in 2002 to a peak of 4.3 % of gdp in 2005 .
most of these inflows were directed toward the construction and services sectors – the main drivers of gdp growth – and aimed to satisfy international demand , both civilian and military .
but , in 200 6- 2007 , fdi levels began to fall , owing to a sharply deteriorating security situation , a continued lack of electricity and adequate infrastructure , a shortage of skilled labor , inadequate legal and regulatory systems , inefficient bureaucratic procedures , and the need to renew companies ’ licenses annually .
land grabs , chronic corruption , impunity , the inability to enforce contracts , and the fragmentation and in effectiveness of aid deterred foreign and domestic investment further . as a result , fdi collapsed to less than 0.5 % of gdp annually in 2011- 2012 .
moreover , in the effort to develop two of the world ’ s largest mines , investors ’ greed prevailed over their security and business- climate concerns .
in 2007 , the met all urg ical corporation of china won the concession for the ay n ak copper deposit in log ar province .
but , despite these projects ’ reported bil lion-dollar price t ag s and high expectations , the investments have cataly zed little progress , owing partly to security issues .
worse , the mines ’ displacement of residents , under payment of workers , and environmental damage have generated resentment in local communities , which is likely to grow in the future .
after all , the granting of mineral resources to foreigners reduces – and could even eliminate – their benefits for local people .
as it stands , afghanistan ’ s economy is a house of cards .
aid levels are comparable to gdp , with donors covering roughly two-thirds of government expenditure and the entire current-account deficit , which amounts to 40 % of gdp .
but aid is falling and expected to drop sharply after 2014 .
rather than continuing to pursue piecemeal measures like those that it has just approved , the government needs to implement an integrated and targeted strategy for the re activ ation of investment , employment , and trade .
indeed , a drastic shift in policy is essential to avoid economic collapse .
in order to reduce the risks associated with investing in afghanistan , the government must create a system that benefits local communities and foreign investors alike .
this can be achieved with a strategy based on two distinct but mutually beneficial “ reconstruction zones ” : an export-oriented zone ( er z ) and a local- production zone ( l r z ) .
the er z , focused exclusively on producing goods for export , would provide tax incentives , basic infrastructure and services , security , and a stable legal framework to investors .
in exchange , investors would commit to train local workers , create employment by purchasing local inputs and services , improve corporate practices and local providers ’ standards , facilitate technology transfers , and establish links with local technical schools and universities .
the l r z would enable local people to improve their livelihoods though the production of agricultural goods , the efficient delivery of services , and light manufacturing .
such a scheme would also help to bolster gender equality by providing a level playing field for all afghans in terms of security , social services , infrastructure , credit , and inputs ( such as seeds , fertilizers , and agricultural machinery ) .
moreover , it would boost food supplies and reduce afghanistan ’ s exorbitant dependence on imports .
by focusing exclusively on foreigners and domestic elites for investment , afghanistan is missing out on the vast potential of micro- entrepreneurs and small businesses to contribute to steady gdp growth .
achieving long-overdue peace and stability will be impossible without them .
an inconvenient peace prize
this year ’ s nobel peace prize justly rewards the thousands of scientists of the united nations climate change panel ( the ipcc ) .
these scientists are engaged in excellent , pain sta king work that establishes exactly what the world should expect from climate change .
the other award winner , former us vice president al gore , has spent much more time telling us what to fear .
while the ipcc ’ s estimates and conclusions are grounded in careful study , gore doesn ’ t seem to be similarly restrained .
gore told the world in his academy awar d- winning movie ( recently labeled “ one- sided ” and containing “ scientific errors ” by a british judge ) to expect 20- foot sea-level rises over this century .
he ignores the findings of his nobel co- winners , the ipcc , who conclude that sea levels will rise between only a half- foot and two feet over this century , with their best expectation being about one foot .
that ’ s similar to what the world experienced over the past 150 years .
likewise , gore agon izes over the accelerated melting of ice in greenland and what it means for the planet , but over looks the ipcc ’ s conclusion that , if sustained , the current rate of melting would add just three in ches to the sea level rise by the end of the century .
gore also takes no notice of research showing that greenland ’ s temperatures were higher in 1941 than they are today .
gore also fre ts about the future of polar bears .
he claims they are drowning as their ic y habitat dis appears .
the politici an- tur ne d- movie maker loses sleep over a predicted rise in he at- related deaths .
there ’ s another side of the story that ’ s inconvenient to mention : rising temperatures will reduce the number of cold sp ells , which are a much bigger killer than heat .
the best study shows that by 2050 , heat will claim 400,000 more lives , but 1.8 million fewer will die because of cold .
indeed , according to the first complete survey of the economic effects of climate change for the world , global warming will actually save lives .
the ipcc has magn anim ously declared that it would have been happy if gore had received the nobel peace prize alone .
i am gl ad that he did not , and that the ipcc ’ s work has righ t fully been acknowledged .
gore has helped the world to worry .
unfortunately , our attention is diverted from where it matters .
climate change is not the only problem facing the globe .
our blin kered focus on it – to the detriment of other planetary challenges – will only be heightened by the attention generated by gore ’ s nobel peace prize .
gore concentr ates above all else on his call for world leaders to cut co2 emissions , yet there are other policies that would do much more for the planet .
over the coming century , developing nations will be increasingly dependent on food imports from developed countries .
this is not primarily a result of global warming , but a consequence of more people and less arable land in the developing world .
the number of hungry people depends much less on climate than on demographics and income .
extremely expensive cuts in carbon emissions could mean more mal nourished people .
if our goal is to fight malnutrition , policies like getting nutrients to those who need them are 5,000 times more effective at saving lives than spending billions of dollars cutting carbon emissions .
likewise , global warming will probably slightly increase malaria , but co2 reductions will be far less effective at fighting this disease than mosquito nets and medication , which can cheaply save 8 50,000 lives every year .
by contrast , the expensive kyoto protocol will prevent just 1, 400 deaths from malaria each year .
while we worry about the far- off effects of climate change , we do nothing to deal with issues facing the planet today . this year , malnutrition will kill almost four million people .
two and a half million people will die because of indoor and outdoor air pollution . a lack of mic ron u tri ents and clean drinking water will claim two million lives each .
with attention and money in scarce supply , what matters is that we first tackle the problems with the best solutions , doing the most good throughout the century .
if we focus on solving today ’ s problems , we will leave communities strengthened , economies more vibrant , and infra structures more robust .
this will enable these societies to deal much better with future problems – including global warming .
committing to massive cuts in carbon emissions will leave future generations poorer and less able to adapt to challenges .
gore has an un sha kable faith that climate change is the biggest challenge facing the world .
to be fair , he deserves some form of recognition for his resolute passion .
however , the contrast between this year ’ s nobel winners could not be sharper .
the ipcc engages in me ticul ous research where facts rule over everything else .
gore has a very different approach .
lahore – in 2005 , during a visit to islamabad , i met pakistani president pervez musharraf and told him of a conversation i had had with prime minister manmohan singh of india .
the indian leader , whom i have known for years , had said that he wanted better relations with pakistan as one his legacies .
musharraf ’ s response was interesting .
he said he had the same aspiration , but that it would need effort from both sides to move things along .
“ i have invited manmohan a half- dozen times to visit pakistan . i have also offered to take him to his village near ch ak w al , a few miles south of islamabad , where he was born .
but he continues to dem ur , ” he told me .
i repeated the conversation to singh , who explained that in a democracy such as india , a great deal of work needs to be done with the members of the coalition and the senior bureaucracy before the prime minister can travel to pakistan . “ musharraf is a military leader ; he needs only to pack his bag s and head this way . ”
musharraf did head that way a few months later , when he forced an invitation out of singh to watch a cricket match between the two sides in new delhi in 2005 .
it took the indian government some time to formulate an answer to musharraf ’ s request for a visit .
when it came , it carried singh ’ s characteristic warm th .
at the end of a speech in the lo k sab ah , the lower house of india ’ s parliament , singh issued his formal invitation . “ how nice it would be to conduct our affairs in this august house with the same spirit of s port s manship that our cr ic ke ters exhibit on the playing fields of the sub- continent , ” he said .
“ i am happy to inform the hon orable members of this house that i have decided to invite president musharraf to come to india to watch the cricket match between our two teams .
it is my ear nest desire that the people in our neighbor ly countries and their leaders should feel free to visit each other whenever they wish to do so .
be it to watch a cricket match ; be it do some shopping ; be it to meet friends and families – india is proud to be an open society , an open economy .
i do hope that president musharraf and his family will enjoy their visit to our country . ”
the prime minister ’ s statement was received with che ers , not the je ers that some of his aides had feared .
musharraf went to fer oz es ha h ko tal a cricket ground in delhi and saw his team win the match .
he and singh also found time during the game to talk about bilateral relations , and agreed to launch what came to be called the “ composite dialogue , ” covering eight contentious issues that had sou red ties for so long .
three years later , a pakist an- based terrorist group killed more than 160 people in mumbai , india ’ s financial capital – and , with them , the diplomatic opening initiated by cricket .
once again , however , cricket has revived dialogue between the sub- continent ’ s two nuclear-armed rivals .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister you su f ra za gil ani , to visit mo hal i , near new delhi , to watch the two countries play the semi- final in the cricket world cup . the match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly .
on the political side , however , the two countries were not evenly matched .
of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and the chief of staff of the army – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority .
it was gil ani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , process , rather than protocol , will determine how bilateral relations move forward .
after the match , singh said that “ india and pakistan should be working together to find cooperative solutions and need permanent reconciliation to live together in dignity and honor .
we should put our ancient anim osi ties behind us to attend to the problems our two nations face . ”
gil ani expressed the same sentiment : “ we need to focus on dealing with our common enemies – inflation , poverty , hunger , disease , and unemployment – for the prosperity of the two countries . ”
there have been indications of a gradual th aw .
senior officials from the ministries of commerce , defense , and foreign affairs will meet in the next two months followed by a meeting of the foreign ministers .
this was an extremely positive and encouraging spirit that has been generated as a result of today ’ s meetings . ”
we have been here before , of course , only to see prospects for improved india- pakistan relations s nu ffed out .
there are no guarantees that this time will be different . but , for both countries , hope dies last .
an inequality tax
the economic booms in china and india have helped to reduce global inequality .
over the two last decades , masses of indians and chinese have closed the gap ( in relative terms ) with the rich world .
but , at the same time , many of the world ’ s truly poor countries have fallen further behind ( particularly in africa , where developments are often described as catastrophic ) , and inequality within most countries has risen .
widening inequality has been recorded in the united states ( starting with ronald reagan ’ s administration ) , the united kingdom ( starting with margaret thatcher ) , russia during its privatization , and more recently in china and india .
these developments seem to add to global inequality .
so , on balance , it seems that global inequality has been relatively stable during the last two decades .
should anything be done about this ?
many think that no global action to fight economic inequality is necessary .
they argue that only poverty reduction matters .
in the words of anne kru eg er , the deputy managing director of the imf , “ poor people are desperate to improve their material condi tion s … rather than to march up the income distribution [ ladder ] . ”
thus , even if the absolute income gap between an average american and an average african increases , why worry ?
after all , such people argue , the average african would be a bit less poor .
but this assumes that our income relative to the income of others does not matter .
on the contrary , psychological studies invariably show that people care not only about their absolute income , but also about where they stand in the social pyr amid and whether their position is fair .
in the past , a poor african might have looked at his compatriots and res ented their wealth ; now , both he and his better- off compatriots look at the rich world and resent the huge income gaps they see .
the gaps are most obvious where people from different countries work together , as in many multinational companies .
an “ expatri ate ” may be paid ten times more than local staff for the same job .
a wage premium based solely on citizenship is gr ating .
but even when people do not work together , globalization , by bringing the world to everyone ’ s living room ( or hu t ) , enables them to make much wider comparisons of their living standards .
it erodes the relative security in which the rich world could shelter itself , as in a coco on .
now , all can see these income differences .
this is why international action to address both global poverty and global inequality is needed .
global redistribution through taxes that would be levied by an international body may seem far-fetched today , but the logic of development that we are witnessing – particularly the move away from nation-states as the loc us of sovereignty – suggests that it may eventually come to pass .
one such opportunity was missed in the early 1990 ’ s .
when russia faced its worst crisis , aid was given to the corrupt yeltsin regime .
an international organization could have simply used the existing infrastructure of the russian state to distribute cash grants to some 20 million pensioners – money that would have been much better targeted and spent than by giving the same amount to the government .
if this had been done , russians would have f on dly remembered receiving cash aid from the international community rather than blaming it for transferring funds to corrupt leaders .
but the same or a similar approach could be taken in many countries today , from angola to zimbabwe .
the approach is simple and powerful .
it involves three steps : raise money from the globally rich , do not deal with governments , and transfers funds in cash to the poor .
those who advocate leaving globalization exclusively in the hands of the private sector may resent the idea of v esting tax- raising authority in a global agency .
but they can not fail to notice that the processes they support undercut their own position by rendering the wealth gap more obvious and the fairness of the actual global distribution more questionable .
they will ultimately realize that their self-interest lies in supporting some form of global action to deal with both poverty and inequality .
an inflation reality check
cambridge – as inflation continues to soar everywhere , maybe the world ’ s central bankers need a jol t to awak en them from complacency .
how about holding one of their bi- monthly meetings in hyper inflationary zimbabwe ?
it might not be comfortable , but it would be educational .
according to zimbabwe ’ s official statistical agency , inflation top ped 6 6,000 % in 2007 , which looks more like we im ar germany than modern-day africa .
while no one is quite certain how the government managed to estimate prices , given that there is virtually nothing for sale in the shops , most indicators suggest that zimbabwe does have a good shot at breaking world records for inflation .
of course , curious as they might be , central bankers could decide that meeting in har are would be too inconvenient and politically un pal atable .
fortunately , there are lots of other nice – albeit less spectacular – inflation destinations .
inflation in russia , vietnam , argentina , and venezuela is solid ly in double dig its , to name just a few possibilities .
indeed , except for defl ation- ridden japan , central bankers could meet just about anywhere and see high and rising inflation .
chinese authorities are so worried by their country ’ s 7 % inflation they are cop ying india and imposing price controls on food .
even the united states had inflation at 4 % last year , though the federal reserve is somehow convinced that most people won ’ t notice .
many central bankers and economists argue that today ’ s rising global inflation is just a temporary aberr ation , driven by soaring prices for food , fuel , and other commodities .
true , prices for many key commodities are up 25 % to 50 % since the start of the year .
but if central bankers think that today ’ s inflation is simply the product of short-term resource scar cities as opposed to lax monetary policy , they are mistaken .
the fact is that around most of the world , inflation – and eventually inflation expectations – will keep clim bing unless central banks start tightening their monetary policies .
the us is now ground zero for global inflation .
faced with a vicious combination of collapsing housing prices and implo ding credit markets , the fed has been aggressively cutting interest rates to try to stave off a recession .
but even if the fed does not admit it in its forecasts , the price of this “ insurance policy ” will almost certainly be higher inflation down the road , and perhaps for several years .
america ’ s inflation would be contained but for the fact that so many countries , from the middle east to asia , effectively tie their currencies to the dollar .
others , such as russia and argentina , do not literally peg to the dollar but nevertheless try to smooth movements .
looser us monetary policy has thus set the temp o for inflation in a significant ch unk – perhaps as much as 60 % – of the global economy .
but , with most economies in the middle east and asia in much stronger shape than the us and inflation already clim bing sharply in most emerging-market countries , aggressive monetary stimulus is the last thing they need right now .
the european central bank is staying calm for the moment , but it , too , is probably holding back on interest-rate hikes partly out of fear of driving the euro , already at record levels , even higher .
and the ecb worries that if the us recession proves contagious , it may have to turn around and start slashing rates anyway .
so what happens next ?
if the us ti ps from mild recession into deep recession , the global deflationary implications will cancel out some of the inflationary pressures the world is facing .
global commodity prices will collapse , and prices for many goods and services will stop rising so quickly as unemployment and excess capacity grow .
of course , a us recession will also bring further fed interest-rate cuts , which will exacerbate problems later .
but inflation pressures will be even worse if the us recession remains mild and global growth remains solid .
in that case , inflation could easily rise to 1980 ’ s ( if not quite 1970 ’ s ) levels throughout much of the world .
until now , most investors have thought that they would rather risk high inflation for a couple of years than accept even a short and shallow recession .
but they too easily forget the costs of high inflation , and how difficult it is to squeeze it out of the system .
maybe they , too , should try holding a few conferences in zimbabwe , and get a reality check of their own .
an intelligent war on terror
terrorism is an existential threat .
in our european security strategy , it was deemed one of the key strategic threats facing the european union , and to fight it we are using all instruments at our disposal , particularly in the intelligence area .
the first objective of intelligence is to find terrorists , prevent them from acting , and track them after they do attack .
this is the kind of operational intelligence that is best done at the national level .
many arrests and disruptions of terrorist operations in europe result from cooperation between eu members ' intelligence services .
i was recently asked by journalists whether inter- agency cooperation is sufficient and whether european mechanisms for sharing operational intelligence should be created .
later that very day , a joint operation resulted in simultaneous arrests in five european countries .
the operation 's success was no accident .
last year , the union concluded two euro pol agreements , as well as an ex tradition and mutual legal assistance agreement .
europe 's security services are working closely together within the counter- terrorist group , and euro pol 's counter- terrorist task force has been re- established .
a high-level group on border and transport security is at work , and links between member states ' police chiefs are strengthening .
but widespread sharing is not always needed or appropriate .
member states also need intelligence derived from ongoing cas e work , not to inform policy , at least not directly , but to disrupt and dismantle networks and prevent attacks .
this information is in many ways more sensitive , and services share it on a `` need to know '' basis , not for the sake of promoting cooperation .
i see another role for intelligence : to inform political action .
only when we understand this can we develop appropriate and concrete policies .
for this we need good strategic assessments of intelligence .
the eu 's members have structures to provide this , and with their support and input we are building structures at a europe-wide level , to bring this information to eu policymakers .
euro pol is performing a similar function with material derived from police work , and we are working to ensure synerg y between these two efforts .
this is a different level of intelligence , more analytical , where close collaboration adds significant value .
in the aftermath of the madrid bombings , the eu focused on internal aspects of the fight against terrorism .
but this does not mean that the union has become intro verted .
on the contrary , the eu regards international cooperation as fundamental in the fight against terrorism .
generally , counter-terrorism is very high on our international agenda and is becoming better integrated into the union 's political dialogue with other countries .
we are better targeting our external assistance and capacity building programs , and we are ready to use our trade and economic muscle , when necessary , by demanding counter-terrorism clauses in bilateral treaties .
there has also been a sea change in transatlantic cooperation between the eu and the us .
deeds speak louder than words , and deeds on the transatlantic level have been swift and decisive - for example , joint efforts aimed at cho king off terrorist financing - even when we had strong divergences over iraq .
still , i am not complacent .
to facilitate the extremely complex task of counter-terrorism policymaking in the eu , we now have a plan of action , approved by the european council , which clearly spec ifies who does what , and by when .
this will also help national parliaments understand eu objectives and facilitate their legislative planning .
i have recently appointed a counter-terrorism coordin ator to assist me in following through on the plan of action .
we also have a considerable number of new instruments in the area of justice and home affairs .
the european arrest warrant is already producing concrete results , and we are moving towards the `` free movement of judicial decisions '' in the eu , through which judicial decisions - such as arrest and surrender of suspects , confis cation , and freezing of assets - will be mutually recognized .
furthermore , the european border agency will become operational in 2005 .
as requested by the european council , i am developing , in cooperation with the european commission , a strategy to shut down terrorist financing .
this is where the real test of cooperation lies , for our success will rely on securing the appropriate interaction and flow of intelligence between the relevant services and the financial and banking communities .
i firmly believe that the military option alone can not defeat terror .
judicial , police , and intelligence cooperation should be the fo cal point for action .
this does not mean that we are not working on how european security and defense policy ( esdp ) can offer a meaningful contribution . but esdp is not at the core of our efforts .
aside from security and intelligence efforts , we must also work to deny `` oxygen '' to the terrorists . this means addressing the factors that contribute to support for and recruitment by terrorist groups .
regional conflicts cause anger and resentment .
the unresolved arab-israeli problem leads to the rise of radicalism and extremism .
there is entirely too much fuel for terrorist propaganda .
the eu will be tough on terrorism . but it must also be tough on the causes of terrorism .
argentina ’ s sovereign bond age
washington , dc – sovereign debt has been back in the news recently , this time because of a united states supreme court ruling concerning argentine debt .
as a result of the ruling , a complicated issue is likely to become even more so .
sovereign debt has been a major feature of the international financial system for centuries .
kings borrowed , often internationally , to finance wars and other expenditures .
when they couldn ’ t pay , as sometimes happened , sovereigns defaulted .
today , sovereigns are more often democratically elected governments , but they still borrow .
and they still occasionally find themselves in situations in which their debt has become unsustainable and they need outside help to continue to meet their debt-service obligations .
when private firms ( or sub national governments ) become insolvent , there are normally legal bankruptcy procedures to determine what to do .
without such procedures , a market economy would be unable to function .
in part , this is because creditors would otherwise stop extending credit and demand repayment at the first sign of trouble .
this is because the first creditors to be paid would receive the full amount owed to them , leaving less for later creditors – and thus creating an incentive for all creditors to rush for the exits even before debt servicing had become impossible .
moreover , in many cases , the value of the troubled entity ’ s assets as a going concern is greater than it would be if the assets were sold separately .
in such cases , all creditors would be better off with a debt write- down than with dissolution .
bankruptcy law thus protects creditors from each other by preventing an outcome that would need lessly harm all of them .
in the case of sovereign debt , however , there is no binding international law that permits bankruptcy .
though some routine practices have emerged as international capital markets have grown , they remain ad hoc .
given the uncertainty involved , and that sovereign debtors can repay domes tic- currency debt simply by printing money , creditors have typically demanded significantly higher interest rates if bonds are not issued under the law and in the currency of an advanced country – often the united states or the united kingdom .
when a sovereign decides that its foreign debt is unsustainable , the government and its creditors have had to negotiate among themselves about what to do .
for sovereign bonds held by other sovereigns , the paris club of creditor countries has developed procedures for handling the debt .
but when private creditors hold sovereign debt , organizing them creates a new challenge with each episode .
when debt is unsustainable , there are several possible negotiating outcomes .
sometimes , debt-service payments are res ch ed uled and perhaps stretched out over a longer period , thus giving the debtor country time to regain its ability to pay .
sometimes , creditors agree to exchange the old bonds for new ones , which have either a lower face value or lower interest payments .
few governments refuse to pay at all in any form .
argentina defaulted on its debt in 2001 .
after several difficult years , the country managed to negotiate an exchange of outstanding bonds for bonds with a considerably lower face value . about 93 % of creditors accepted the exchange and received new bonds with a face value that was about one-quarter of that of the old bonds .
after 2005 , argentina maintained debt service on the new bonds .
but some creditors held out , and sued argentina in new york ( as the bonds were issued under new york law ) .
the holdouts claimed that , if the new bonds were being servic ed in full ( as they were ) , equal treatment required that the holdouts should receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) .
the us second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its obligations to the hold out bondholders in the same proportion ( namely 100 % ) as the holders of the exchange bonds .
it was that ruling that the supreme court recently upheld .
under the court order , argentina may not pay the holders of the new bonds unless it also pays the holdouts , and no us financial institution can serve as an intermedi ary to make payments for argentina .
as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts in full or default on the new bonds .
regardless of how the current impasse is resolved , the ruling raises many questions for issuers and holders of sovereign debt .
if creditors now believe that holding out makes it more likely that they will receive full value at a later date , restructuring sovereign debt and restoring a debtor economy ’ s normal functioning will be more difficult .
since the argentine crisis , most new bonds have been issued with collective action clauses ( cac s ) , under which bondholders are obliged to accept restructuring if a specified share ( usually around 70 % ) agree to it .
as time passes , there are fewer and fewer outstanding bonds that do not contain cac s .
but cac s may not resolve the problem entirely , because a vote would be required for each separate bond issue , and a hold out position could be achieved by buying up the blocking percentage of a small issue .
it is also possible that language will be found in future bond issues that replaces the par i pas su clause but provides sufficient assurance to bondholders to let the market function much as it did until the current ruling .
until the euro crisis , it was generally believed that problems servicing sovereign debt occurred only in emerging markets and the least developed countries .
the us supreme court ’ s decision on argentina adds a new wr ink le , and may well further increase the risk attached to holding sovereign debt – and this to the cost of issuing it .
families of the future
washington , dc – it is graduation season in many countries , a time when classes of bright and fortunate young people don their caps and g owns , receive their diplom as , and hear advice from their el ders .
some comm enc ement speakers focus on the graduates ’ accomplishments ; others emphasize the care er- related challenges that lie ahead .
but there is another critical aspect to success and happiness that is often overlooked during these gar l anded celebrations of academic achievement : family .
in fact , these ceremon ies are about the graduates ’ families – that is , those who have loved and supported them , regardless of their biological connection – as much as they are about the graduates themselves .
whatever each family ’ s experience , the result has been a child reaching a level of education of which many people can only dream .
beyond noting and appreciating what their families have done for them , graduates must consider the kind of family that they want to nurture .
and here they have no choice but to reflect on gender roles and relations .
given the vastly different expectations and experiences of men and women – depending , of course , on the cultural context – the questions that they must ask themselves vary considerably .
the question of how to balance work and family , typically posed to young women , is actually a critical consideration for young men as well .
the traditional male role as “ provider ” has often led work to take precedence over time spent with family .
indeed , in reflecting on their child hoods , many graduates may lament that their fathers spent too little time at home , or were less nurturing than they could have been .
men must determine how to develop the caring side of their personality , in addition to the competitive side that will enable them to advance their careers .
they must aim to love and give fully , not only as fathers , but also as sons , hus bands , brothers , un cles , and even friends .
to this end , they should ask their own fathers and grand fathers what they wish they had done differently – and plan accordingly .
instead of waiting for challenges to arise , young men should begin establishing their priorities now .
how will they adapt to enable their partner to fulfill his or her career aspirations ?
will they be willing to move for their partner ’ s job ?
would they be prepared to stop working or reduce their work load , in order to care for a child or parent ?
through all of this , men should remember that , by adopting a new approach , they are not abandoning their roles as providers .
after all , providing care is every bit as important as providing cash .
the reward is the close relationship with their children that women have traditionally enjoyed .
women , too , must think carefully about the future that they would find most fulfilling .
for many women , the challenge is abandoning the assumption that their work / family balance will have to tip in favor of family , that it is they who will have to sacrifice their careers .
of course , many women might choose to emphasize family ( as would many men ) .
the point is the choice : the choice of how much energy to devote to one ’ s home , the choice of a career based on passion , and the choice of a genuinely equal partner .
upholding an equal partnership of ca regi vers and bread winners will require compromises on both sides .
a woman with great career ambitions should be able to find a partner who is willing to slow down or stop working to support her , just as a man should .
but buc king gender roles works both ways .
indeed , for such a dynamic to work , the woman must rec ali br ate her expectations of her sp ouse .
if she wants to build a family with a man , she must not become caught up in traditional perceptions of mas cul inity .
if she is uncomfortable , say , out- earning her husband , she is limiting both partners .
simply put , the kind of support that young women ’ s fathers and grand fathers probably offered to their mothers and grand mothers is not the only kind of support a woman can or should expect from her partner .
her role should be determined not by old-fashioned rules , but by her individual strengths and ambitions .
and her partner should have the confidence and competence to encourage her to fulfill her potential .
finally , graduation does not mean that the family ’ s job is complete .
parents and grandparents must continue to play a critical role in reshaping expectations – or at least supporting the choices that their children and grandchildren make .
this means accepting the decision of a son or grand son not to use his hard- earned university degree to become the primary bread winner in his future household . and it means understanding that what a daughter or grand daughter needs may not be a traditional “ provider , ” but a partner who makes career sacrifices to enable her to advance h ers .
graduation is a day of ending and beginning .
it is a day for young people to recall the sacrifices that their families have made for them , and consider the kinds of sacrifices they will make for their families .
and it is a day to recognize that , if family comes first , work does not come second ; rather , life comes together .
let europe lead in ukraine
washington , dc – as russia ’ s annexation of crimea proceeds , the united states must step back ; the european union must step forward ; and the international community must ensure both that russia pays a steep economic and political price for its actions , and that russian and ukrainian nationalists do not lock both sides into a deadly spiral of violence .
thus far , western leaders have played their cards about as well as they could , barring early missteps by german chancellor angela merkel , who described a calculated assertion of russia ’ s regional interests as the behavior of a leader who was out of touch with reality .
escalation of the crisis by the us at this stage would merely play into russian president vladimir putin ’ s hands and expose the west as a paper tiger .
throughout the twentieth century , the us intervened repeatedly in latin america to topple or sub vert governments it did not like : in cuba , nicaragua , the dominic an republic , panama , guatemala , haiti , el salvador , chile , and gr en ada , to name only the most prominent cases .
during the cold war , successive us presidents were perfectly happy to send in troops , directly or indirectly , to ensure that friendly governments prevailed in the americas ( and beyond ) .
now recall western responses to previous soviet and russian incursions into strategically important countries : hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , or georgia in 2008 .
each time , the us refused to engage militarily with a state possessing the largest number of nuclear weapons on earth .
to rec ite this history is not to approve it , but rather to try to understand how russians might understand the legitimacy of putin ’ s actions .
there is also the universal political dynamic whereby a foreign threat or crisis strengthens a leader domestically .
putin is getting the same bu mp in popularity from his crim ean adventure that then- british prime minister margaret thatcher got from the fal k lands war in 1982 .
even left-wing intellectuals are lining up to support putin for protecting ethnic russians from what the kremlin and its allied media portray as “ fascist ” ukrainian nationalism .
against this backdrop , us secretary of state john kerry is right to make clear that nato is not contemplating a military response of any kind .
he would do even better to hand off responsibility as lead negotiator and spokes man in this crisis to a group of eu leaders : eu high representative ca ther ine ash ton , merkel , uk prime minister david cameron , and polish prime minister donald tusk .
the eu as a whole has far more extensive economic ties – and hence influence – with russia than the us does .
the eu is russia ’ s largest trading partner – the us is in fifth place , behind china and ukraine .
roughly half of russian foreign direct investment in 2012 went to the netherlands , cyprus , and switzerland ( which is not an eu member , but is subject to eu pressure ) , while an estimated 75 % of russia ’ s inward fdi comes from eu countries .
finally , russian oligarchs own more property in london and the south of france than they do in new york or mi ami .
moreover , eu pressure on russia is less likely to wh ip up russian nationalism than us “ interference ” in russia ’ s neighborhood .
for starters , ukraine is in the eu ’ s neighborhood as well .
but , more important , the eu does not remind russians daily of their post-soviet losses and humiliation on the global stage in the same way that the us does .
the us has far fewer russia experts in politics today than it did two decades ago , because most american foreign policymakers have been paying far more attention to china , india , and the middle east .
no country , much less a former superpower , likes to be ignored .
finally , if the us steps back , the eu , the united nations , and even china can remind the russians of the political consequences of flag ran tly violating international law and sw allowing up impoverished , restive territories that will prove far harder to dig est than the fixed referendum results would suggest .
the muslim tat ars – roughly 15 % of crimea ’ s population – strongly oppose joining the russian federation and may become a permanent thor n in its side , along with the 25 % of ukrain ian- speaking crim e ans who have been silenced over the past ten days .
the us and european decision to impose some economic sanctions now , with the possibility of adopting tougher and broader sanctions later , is not a sign of weakness but of strategic calculation .
heavier weapons remain in the diplomatic arsenal to deter putin from trying to car ve off further sections of ukraine ; in the meantime , markets are imposing additional economic costs on all russians .
it is now equally important to strengthen the moderate members of the new ukrainian government and to reduce the influence of right-wing nationalists who would tr ample on the rights of russian- speaking ukrainians .
from the french revolution to egypt and syria , extremists have repeatedly overtaken moderates and then proceeded to mim ic the tactics and politics of the government they originally united to overthrow .
that is not to say that the us , the eu , and other concerned actors should not do everything possible to ensure that ukraine ’ s people , whatever language they speak and religion they practice , gain the rights and prosperity that they desperately seek .
for the us , the defense of universal values is , according to president barack obama ’ s national security strategy , a core american interest .
but the way to pursue that interest in this case is not to invite a cold war- style face- off .
it is to backstop the countries that have the most influence over russia and the most at stake – strategically and economically – in resolving this crisis .
washington , dc – the united states government ’ s initial statements on the “ first- step agreement on iran ’ s nuclear program ” have been focused , above all , on the great deal that the us and the west have gotten .
iran has agreed to halt enrichment of uranium above 5 % pur ity ; neutralize its stockpile of uranium enriched to near 20 % pur ity ; stop building its stockpile of 3.5 % enriched uranium ; for swe ar “ next generation centrifu ges ” ; shut down its plutonium reactor ; and allow extensive new inspections of its nuclear facilities .
in return , iran will get “ limited , temporary , targeted , and reversible relief ” from international sanctions .
the agreement covers only the next six months , during which both sides will try to reach a final comprehensive agreement .
for now , as president barack obama put it , the burden remains , from the us point of view , “ on iran to prove to the world that its nuclear program will be exclusively for peaceful purposes . ”
framing the issue this way reflects the need to sell even a limited , temporary deal to a skeptical us congress .
israel ’ s manifest dis pleasure with the entire negotiating process , which prime minister binyamin netanyahu has emphasized to anyone who will listen over the past three months , reverber ates loudly among israel ’ s many congressional friends .
indeed , israel ’ s stance bol sters the desire of obama ’ s republican opponents to paint him as weak and naïve in negotiating with iran , a country that still describes the us as “ the great sat an . ”
both republicans and democrats are threatening to pass a new round of tough sanctions against iran in december .
thus , obama must focus as much on pushing back against domestic hardliners as on taking a hard line with iranian negotiators .
this is hardly surprising .
one hopes that the iranian government ’ s announcement to its own people reads roughly the same , in reverse , focusing on the important concessions that iranian negotiators have won .
that includes suspension of international sanctions on iran ’ s exports of oil , gold , and cars , which could yield $ 1.5 billion in revenue ; un freezing $ 4.2 billion in revenue from oil sales ; and releasing tu iti on- assistance payments from the iranian government to iranian students enrolled abroad .
iranian president hassan rouhani needs to marshal support for the deal just as much as obama does , above all by reducing inflation and getting his country ’ s economy moving again .
if domestic tensions , above all within iran ’ s restive middle class , ease as a result , the government will receive the credit , while the iranian republican guard and other hardliners will be weakened .
the west had better hope that the iranian narrative proves true , because the political space for any meaningful diplomatic agreement – both the desire for a deal and the room to achieve it – is created at home .
this is particularly true when a new government comes to power with promises of improving the economy .
rouhani can undercut hardliners who would seek to block any ultimate deal only if the iranian population both experiences economic relief and attributes it to his administration .
the true test of this interim agreement , therefore , is whether both sides can secure the domestic space to continue negotiating .
the stakes have never been higher – and not only because of the very real and dangerous geopolitical consequences of an iranian bomb .
as obama put it , “ if iran se izes this opportunity , the iranian people will benefit from re joining the international community , and we can begin to chip away at the mistrust between our two nations .
this would provide iran with a dignified path to forge a new beginning with the wider world based on mutual respect . ”
let us imagine , just for a moment , what the middle east and central asia could look like if the us and iran could once again talk to each other .
as we saw briefly after the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , the drug trade from afghanistan could be sharply curtailed .
moreover , a regional agreement involving iran , india , pakistan , russia , china , turkey , the european union , and the us would become much more likely , providing the framework for security and economic growth that diplomats from henry kissinger to the late richard hol broo ke always claimed would be necessary for lasting peace in afghanistan .
perhaps most important , a peace settlement in syria would be much more likely – and more likely to endure – if the us could talk to iran , which has far more leverage with president bashar al-assad ’ s regime than russia does .
after all , it was fighters from hezbollah , iran ’ s lebanese proxy , who turned the tide of battle decisively against the opposition this past summer .
iran has long made clear that it wants to resume its historic position as a major regional – and indeed global – power , an ambition that can only grow stronger as it watches turkey ’ s geopolitical stature rise .
iran and turkey , after all , are the 17 th and 18th largest countries in the world by population , respectively , with sophisticated elites and illustr ious and ancient pa sts .
us secretary of state john kerry , eu high representative ca ther ine ash ton , and the other parties to the talks – all supported by able teams of diplomats – ham m ered out the deal ’ s details over months , staying at the table , compromising , holding firm , and managing the expectations of multiple players ( including the press ) .
the obama administration committed itself to global leadership through civilian rather than military power .
that is what it takes .
obama versus the islamic state
washington , dc – us president barack obama has laid out a detailed strategy for how his administration plans to combat the islamic state , which controls a substantial portion of syria and iraq .
though i have been harsh ly critical of obama ’ s policy toward syria for two and a half years , his new strategy reflects a mature and coherent foreign policy – albeit one that does not fully live up to his proclaimed values .
that omis sion may yet defeat his plan .
obama ’ s approach is pra is e worthy for three reasons .
first , it combines force and diplomacy .
second , it att aches careful conditions to the type and scope of american military action .
third , it ties the fate of these efforts to the existence and effectiveness of a broad middle east coalition , making clear that though the united states is prepared to lead , it can not and will not assume the role of global polic eman .
in the middle east game of thr ones , obama is playing his hand as well as he can .
he knows that a us-led military effort can significantly weaken the islamic state , but that only a combined military- political effort can defeat it .
he created political leverage for himself by drawing a clear line , announcing that the us would “ expand our efforts beyond protecting our own people and humanitarian missions ” only together with the new ly- formed iraqi government .
if that government makes good on its promises of political inclusion , the us will help it get its country back ; if not , not .
equally important , but less evident , is the leverage that this position provides with respect to iran .
obama never mentioned iran during his speech ; but commentators have spec ulated about whether his strategy gives iran greater leverage over the us , on the theory that iran ian- backed fighters are critical to the success on the ground in the fight against the islamic state .
but iraq ’ s shia government is one of iran ’ s major strategic anch ors in the region ; before the us began airstrikes against the islamic state , it was far from certain that the iraqi government would survive .
iran needs us air power at least as much as the us needs iran ian- backed ground troops .
the us emphasis on a regional coalition to fight the islamic state is also def t diplomacy .
secretary of state john kerry has made it clear that for now iran is not a welcome member .
iran , without which the coalition essentially becomes a sunni front , can have a place at the table – and play a large and overt role in resolving the syrian civil war – but only if it is willing to reach a deal to rein in its nuclear program .
there has never been a better time to do so .
where obama ’ s strategy is weakest is in reaching ordinary people : the networked web of human relationships that trans mits rage , hatred , and despair or hope , trust , and loyalty .
his doctrine that the us will use force to defend its “ core interests , ” but will mobilize others “ to address broader challenges to international order , ” is sound logic and good politics in a war- weary us .
but , as a syrian tweeted to me , what the world he ars obama saying is that the us will use force to av enge the deaths of two american journalists , but will stand by while 200,000 syrians are slaugh tered .
unless us military action is seen as actually protecting the lives and property of the iraqi and syrian people , the us will quickly lose the propaganda war to the islamic state .
as many experts warn , the first time a drone strike kills a woman or child , a video of the scene and the fun eral will be posted for the muslim world to see .
even if that video does not actually increase support for the islamic state , it will convince millions of muslims that the us is up to its old military tricks : bombing for oil , or for israel , or simply to crush all muslims .
that will not just hurt the us in syria and iraq . it will shape popular views in other arab states , limiting their governments ’ ability to work with the us .
most damaging of all , a purely strategic justification for military action – in defense of core us interests – leaves no room to do what actually needs to be done in syria .
the only way to bring syrian president bashar al-assad to the negotiating table is to weaken him and the islamic state simultaneously .
and the only legal or moral justification for striking his air force , ammunition d umps , or heavy weapon ry is the international responsibility to protect his people from him – just as the us helped to protect the ye z id is from the islamic state .
for , contrary to obama ’ s claim , the brutality of the islamic state is not “ unique . ”
assad has killed more than 200,000 people , mostly civilians , in a conflict that started with his government ’ s torture of children .
simply talking about the responsibility to protect , as obama once did , accompanied by even limited strikes – perhaps as punishment for assad ’ s reported recent use of chlor ine gas against civilians – would change the game quickly .
iran would understand that america ’ s restraint in syria is not indefinite ; sunni governments could be sh amed in the eyes of their own people for not doing more ; and the islamic state ’ s narrative of brutality would col li de with a narrative of humanity .
the fate of peasants has a direct and important impact on that of kings .
obama ’ s policy wa vers between geopolitical calculations based on national interest and the rhetoric of universal values , of standing for “ our common security and common humanity . ”
making that rhetoric real would buy him the room for maneuver that is needed to pursue his policy ’ s geopolitical goals .
post- shutdown america
washington , dc – after 16 days of closed museu ms , half- empty federal buildings , un naturally quiet streets , and tens of thousands of workers left in existential lim bo , the lights are back on in washington .
but , while the shutdown of the united states government , initiated by radical congressional republicans seeking to block implementation of president barack obama ’ s health-care legislation , is over – at least for now – three enduring lessons have emerged .
first , the next time the eurozone crisis fla res up , the us will simply have to bite its t ong ue ; after all , the shutdown spectacle revealed path ologies no less severe than those that have characterized the european union ’ s economic and political negotiations over the past five years .
irresponsible behavior threatening the health of the global economy ?
check .
political posturing and out lan dish claims forec losing any possibility of compromise ?
check .
breathtaking brinkmanship and 11 th- hour decision-making leaving all by stand ers wondering whether this time the car t might in fact go over the cliff ?
check .
few countries in recent years have been spared the pain of their domestic political spectac les being broadcast around the world .
the united kingdom had mass riots in london just two summers ago ; strikes and demonstrations have paralyzed paris on a regular basis ; greece has a rising fascist party ; mexico city has been practically shut down by teachers occupying the central square ; and turkish prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan resorted to violence in june to quell weeks of protests against his increasingly autocratic ways .
among non- democracies , china had the bo x il ai scandal , which was worthy of a spy novel , with illicit affairs , rampant corruption , murder , and a senior police official ’ s dramatic quest for asylum in a us consul ate .
against this backdrop , the us government shutdown looks a little different .
yes , it was a clear symptom of deep political dysfunction , stemming from the politicized dem ar cation of electoral districts and the distorting effects of america ’ s campaign - finance system .
nonetheless , it is no te worthy that the entire crisis played out according to constitutional rules .
indeed , as the deadline for raising the debt ceiling ne ared , henry a ar on , a distinguished senior fellow at the brookings institution , pointed out that the us constitution requires the president “ to spend what congress has instructed him to spend , to raise only those taxes congress has authorized him to impose , and to borrow no more than congress author izes . ”
hon oring all three of those legal obligations simultaneously is impossible if congress refuses to raise the debt ceiling , but raising the debt ceiling without congressional approval , though illegal and an impe ach able offense , was the least- bad choice .
this understanding means that the cure for the current dysfunction will be found at the ballot box rather than in the streets .
and it is this collective commitment to the law governing how political power can be exercised that is the essence of liberal democracy .
but americans are in no mood to celebrate .
indeed , the second conclusion to be drawn from the us government shutdown is the virtual disappearance of american triumph alism .
ch est- th umping exceptionalism has given way to a more sober patriotism , in which ordinary citizens recognize the long-term trends eroding the promise of equal opportunity , particularly the shortcomings that beset the country ’ s health-care , education , and infrastructure systems .
the anger of tea party republicans ( like the anger of occupy wall street protesters ) reflects a sense that nothing but dramatic , even revolutionary , measures can change the system .
in response , however , more pragmatic voters are increasingly ir ate about political paralysis and their governing institutions ’ inability to respond to the preferences of a clear majority of the population .
in the midst of the shutdown , the republican party ’ s popular approval rating san k to barely a quarter of the national electorate , a historic low , while the approval rating for congress as a whole stood at just 5 % .
the final lesson of the shutdown is that political systems of every kind benefit from the addition of women .
many comm ented on the critical role played by six women senators – republicans and democrats – in reaching the compromises needed to end the crisis .
these women have maintained relationships with one another across the partisan divide , while those among their male colleagues have steadily deteriorated , giving way to competitive grand standing and vit u per ation .
equally important , these women felt – and acted upon – the moral necessity of actually governing .
in the words of senator su san coll ins , a republican from ma ine who first put together the out lines of a deal and took it to the senate floor , the shutdown “ hurt all the small businesses ” around acad ia national park in her home state , “ and that is plain wrong . ”
the world should note .
women are not necessarily better than men at governing , but they often have different perspectives and habits of engagement that can be essential for cutting through the stando ffs created by the need to defend male e gos .
they are also often more focused on the plight of actual people than on the promotion of grand principles , prefer ring concrete progress to abstract victory .
from parliaments to peace negotiations , adding women improves outcomes .
the us government is back at work , for now .
negotiations for a real budget that all sides can live with are beginning .
and assessments of how the shutdown will affect the republican party ’ s fortunes in the 2014 midterm elections are rife .
but the country ’ s social and economic divisions will ultimately find political solutions , through elections and the efforts of millions of americans to achieve fundamental reforms .
as frustrating and embarrassing as the last several weeks have been , it could have been much worse .
stopping russia starts in syria
washington , dc – the solution to the crisis in ukraine lies in part in syria .
it is time for us president barack obama to demonstrate that he can order the offensive use of force in circumstances other than secret drone attacks or covert operations .
the result will change the strategic calculus not only in damascus , but also in moscow , not to mention beijing and tokyo .
many argue that obama ’ s clim b- down from his threatened missile strikes against syria last august emboldened russian president vladimir putin to annex  crimea .
but it is more likely that putin acted for domestic reasons – to distract russians ’ attention from their country ’ s failing economy and to sal ve the humiliation of watching pro-european demonstrators ou st the ukrainian government he backed .
regardless of putin ’ s initial motivations , he is now operating in an environment in which he is quite certain of the parameters of play .
western use of force , other than to send arms to a fairly ha pl ess ukrainian army , is not part of the equation .
that is a problem .
in the case of syria , the us , the world ’ s largest and most flexible military power , has chosen to negotiate with its hands tied behind its back for more than three years .
this is no less of a mistake in the case of russia , with a leader like putin who measures himself and his fellow leaders in terms of crude mach ism o .
it is time to change putin ’ s calculations , and syria is the place to do it .
through a combination of mort ars that shat ter entire city quarters , starvation , hypo ther mia , and now barrel bombs that spr ay n ails and sh rap nel in discrimin ately , president bashar al-assad ’ s forces have seized the advantage .
slowly but surely , the government is re claiming rebel - held territory .
“ realist ” foreign policy analysts openly describe assad as the lesser evil compared to the al qaed a- affiliated members of the opposition ; others see an advantage in letting all sides fight it out , tying one another down for years .
moreover , the syrian government does appear to be slowly giving up its chemical weapons , as it agreed last september to do .
the problem is that if assad continues to believe that he can do anything to his people except kill them with chemicals , he will extermin ate his opponents , slaugh tering everyone he captures and punishing entire communities , just as his father , ha fe z al-assad , massac red the residents of h ama in 1982 .
he has demonstrated repeatedly that he is cut from the same ruthless clo th .
since the beginning of the syrian conflict , assad has fan ned fears of what sunni opposition forces might do to the alaw ites , dru ze , christians and other minorities if they won .
but we need not speculate about assad ’ s behavior .
we have seen enough .
a us strike against the syrian government now would change the entire dynamic .
it would either force the regime back to the negotiating table with a genuine intention of reaching a settlement , or at least make it clear that assad will not have a free hand in re- establishing his rule .
it is impossible to strike syria legally so long as russia sits on the united nations security council , given its ability to veto any resolution author izing the use of force .
but even russia agreed in february to resolution 2 13 9 , designed to compel the syrian government to increase flows of humanitarian aid to starving and wounded civilians .
among other things , resolution 2 13 9 requires that “ all parties immediately cease all attacks against civilians , as well as the indiscriminate employment of weapons in populated areas , including shel ling and aerial bombar d ment , such as the use of barrel bomb s … . ”
the us , together with as many countries as will cooperate , could use force to eliminate syria ’ s fixed- wing aircraft as a first step toward enforcing resolution 2 13 9 .
“ aerial bombar d ment ” would still likely continue via helicopter , but such a strike would announce immediately that the game has changed .
after the strike , the us , france , and britain should ask for the security council ’ s approval of the action taken , as they did after nato ’ s intervention in kosovo in 1999 .
equally important , shots fired by the us in syria will echo loudly in russia .
the great irony is that putin is now seeking to do in ukraine exactly what assad has done so successfully : portray a legitimate political opposition as a gang of thu gs and terrorists , while relying on provocations and lies to turn non-violent protest into violent attacks that then justify an armed response .
recall that the syrian opposition marched peacefully under fire for six months before the first units of the free syrian army tent atively began to form .
in ukraine , putin would be happy to turn a peaceful opposition ’ s ouster of a corrupt government into a civil war .
putin may believe , as western powers have repeatedly told their own citizens , that nato forces will never risk the possibility of nuclear war by deploying in ukraine .
perhaps not .
but the russian forces destabilizing eastern ukraine wear no in sign ia .
putting force on the table in resolving the ukraine crisis , even force used in syria , is particularly important because economic pressure on russia , as critical as it is in the western portfolio of responses , can create a perverse incentive for putin .
as the russian ruble falls and foreign investment dr ies up , the russian population will become restive , giving him even more reason to distract them with patriotic spectac les welcoming still more “ russians ” back to the mother land .
obama took office with the aim of ending wars , not starting them .
but if the us meets bullets with words , tyr ants will draw their own conclusions .
so will allies ; japan , for example , is now wondering how the us will respond should china manufacture a crisis over the disputed senkaku islands .
to lead effectively , in both the national and the global interest , the us must demonstrate its readiness to shoulder the full responsibilities of power .
striking syria might not end the civil war there , but it could prevent the eruption of a new one in ukraine .
xi ’ s recipe
washington , dc – china ’ s government is cracking down hard on western journalists , threatening not to renew visas for reporters from the new york times and bloomberg in retaliation for their reporting on the corruption of senior chinese officials .
times columnist thomas friedman recently pen ned an open letter to the chinese government telling them that , because the top “ cause of death of chinese regimes in history is greed and corruption , ” a free press is more likely to help than hurt .
anyone who holds freedom of the press and freedom of expression to be universal human rights will agree with friedman ’ s position .
but , in china , politics – including the politics of rights – is always intertwined with economics .
last month , president xi jinping announced a set of sweeping economic reforms at the central committee ’ s third plenum , setting forth his vision of “ the great rejuven ation of the chinese nation . ”
his 60- point plan included reforms of fiscal policy and the financial sector that would set market interest rates on loans and deposits , permit some private- investor participation in state-owned enterprises , increase the role of small and medium-size enterprises , loosen labor restrictions , and introduce property taxes to boost revenue for local authorities .
this renewed embrace of the market , reminiscent of deng xiaoping ’ s original turn to capitalism in 1979 , will be hard medicine for china ’ s entrenched business and government elites to sw allow .
if xi ’ s administration is successful – a big if – its reforms may enable china to negotiate the necessary transition from an economy driven by exports and government investment to a more sustainable growth model based on domestic consumption .
the stakes are high .
a country that has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty over the last two decades must now find a way to safeguard and gradually increase those gains while engineering the same miracle for the hundreds of millions still left behind .
the world has a significant economic , political , and moral interest in the success of china ’ s reform agenda .
in this context , it is important to understand that xi ’ s economic reforms are only one ingredient of a carefully crafted co ck tail .
the rest of the recipe includes two parts popular social reforms – an end to the one-child policy for many chinese parents and the abolition of “ re education through labor ” – and one part political crackdown .
increased censorship and intimidation of foreign journalists , together with the imprisonment of dissidents and tighter restrictions on dissent , are an effort to ensure that economic disruption does not give rise to political rebellion .
to implement his ambitious reform agenda , xi has taken several steps to consolidate his personal and bureaucratic power .
he has reduced the membership of the politburo from nine to seven , making it easier to obtain agreement in a system designed to institution alize collective leadership .
he has increased the power of the central committee , which he chairs . and he has created a new state security council .
to understand how the state security council could serve xi ’ s interest in centr alizing power , consider the united states .
without the national security council and the domestic policy council , the us president would have no routine way to control and coordinate different bureaucracies .
white house staff working for the national security council call meetings at which officials from the state department , defense department , treasury , justice department , and other key agencies h ash out their views on a given policy .
but it is the president ’ s staff who guide the outcome and determines the next steps .
since the third plenum ended and the scope of xi ’ s reforms has become clear , many china wat chers have hailed him as the most transformative leader since deng .
time will tell , but a key difference between 2014 and 1979 is that today the chinese co ck tail is spi ked with fear .
ev an os no s , writing in the new yor ker , reports that two years ago , in the midst of the arab uprisings , a senior official told a meeting in beijing that if the chinese government “ wa ver [ ed ] ” in the midst of social- medi a- fueled global dissid ence , “ the state could sink into the abyss . ”
recently , os no s writes , a high-level chinese diplomat explained the threatened exp ulsion of new york times and bloomberg journalists on the grounds that “ the times and bloomberg were seeking nothing short of removing the communist party from power , and that they must not be allowed to continue . ”
that fear is one of the principal forces driving xi ’ s reform agenda .
the communist party must keep the chinese economy growing ( even if more slowly ) , while fighting rampant corruption and responding to citizens ’ demands .
chinese citizens can not vote , but they can – and do – make their dis pleasure known , which places a premium on what chinese bureaucrats call “ stability maintenance . ”
will d ob son , author of the dictator ’ s learning curve , describes the chinese government as a technocracy whose legitimacy is founded on efficient problem-solving .
“ when a regime ’ s legitimacy is derived from its performance , ” he argues , “ any crisis – and how the party responds to it – can raise existential questions about the regime ’ s right to rule . ”
china ’ s leaders apparently worry that western-style investigative journalism inside china could trigger just such a crisis .
in any case , they are taking no chances .
they are placing their faith in their ability to wash their own dirty la und ry and drive economic , social , and political change from the top down .
and they are less and less willing to play by western rules .
germany steps up
washington , dc – since the start of his first administration , us president barack obama has repeated a simple mantra concerning other countries : “ with power comes responsibility . ”
france has demonstrated repeatedly that it understands and accepts this responsibility ; germany may now be following suit .
several weeks ago , german president jo ach im ga uck ’ s opening address to the 50th annual munich security conference reflected on the federal republic ’ s evolution over those five decades , a period that gave rise to “ a good germany , the best we have ever known . ”
and , because germany benefits more than most countries from the current open , value- based international order , it has , ga uck said , a greater responsibility to defend and extend that order .
ga uck ’ s speech reflected the thinking in an important new report , entitled new power , new responsibility , released by the stif tun g wis sen sch af t und politik and the german marshall fund of the united states .
the report – the product of several months of debate within the german foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’ s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and to an international order that is based on universal norms . ”
as ga uck proclaimed , germany ’ s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation ” of this order .
to achieve this objective , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the ability to solve problems and resolve conflicts affecting all or part of the international community .
the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic he ft , and military might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological prof ic i ency – remain important ; but they are often insufficient to conf er actual influence in international politics .
a shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others and to create and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
as a shaping power with an enormous stake in preserving and extending the openness of the international system , germany has a special responsibility to help integrate new global powers into that system .
here is where things get interesting .
germany has long sought a seat on the united nations security council , making common cause with japan , brazil , and india .
but new power , new responsibility suggests a different path , arguing for the reform of the security council in a way that would mer ge the french and british seats into a permanent european seat in a “ slightly enlarged circle of permanent members , ” while also ensuring european representation among the non- permanent members .
under this scenario , germany would play a role in global peace and security through the european seat , as well as serving as a periodic rot ating member .
this renewed commitment to a strong and united europe is the second pillar of a twenty-first-century german foreign policy .
new power , new responsibility calls for “ deepening ” the european union through measures that would include democratizing eu financial decision-making by directly engaging national parliamentarians and exchanging tighter european fiscal constraints on member governments ’ budgets for a european banking union , a eurozone budget , and eurobonds .
in foreign and security policy , new power , new responsibility proposes strengthening the role of the eu high representative and the role of the european action service .
current eu high representative ca ther ine ash ton continues to prove the worth of eu foreign-policy institutions by , for example , bro kering a remarkable peace between serbia and kosovo and playing a key role in nuclear negotiations with iran .
the third surprise concerns the use of force .
ga uck told germans in no uncertain terms that they had to be willing to use force , at least as a last resort , and re pro ached those of his fellow citizens “ who use germany ’ s guilt for its past as a shield for la z iness or a desire to dis engage from the world . ”
more controversi ally , ga uck proclaimed the need for security council authorization of any use of force , but also hinted at a kosovo precedent for possible military intervention in syria .
as he put it , when the international community confronts a clear case for the use of force to protect a population from its own government , but the security council is divided , “ the relationship between legality and legitimacy will continue to be awkward . ”
the participants in the deliberations that resulted in new power , new responsibility split on this question .
some argued for an absolute requirement of security council authorization , while others recognized an imperative to contemplate humanitarian intervention without such authorization in “ very narrowly defined exceptional cases . ”
us secretary of state john kerry also spoke at the munich security conference .
but , by not referring to ga uck ’ s speech , he missed an opportunity to under line the success of one of obama ’ s key foreign-policy tenets : as the us steps back from its role as global polic eman and focuses more on diplomacy than force , other countries must step up .
even more important , kerry and obama would do well to think hard about a key lesson embedded in ga uck ’ s speech and the report behind it .
countries that want to retain power in a changing global order must learn to share it , which requires accepting and embracing the cont ours of a new world .
the obama administration should think hard about security council reform .
it should signal a real willingness to replace an order that reflects the world of 1945 with one that reflects the world of 2015 .
that means supporting a greater global role for all powers that understand and accept real responsibility for maintaining global peace and security .
stopping the syria contagion
washington , dc – syria ’ s civil war has become a wre t ch edly complicated problem .
as the parties prepare to meet in geneva for the second round of united nation s- sponsored peace talks , the government has launched vicious bar rel - bomb attacks on aleppo and other cities ; more moderate islamist rebel groups , including the free syrian army , are openly at war with al qaeda affili ates ; and al qaed a- linked groups are now fighting among themselves .
meanwhile , the war ’ s spillover effects are worsening .
the fighting has heightened instability in the region ; us and european citizens are stre aming into syria to take up jihad ; and there is a growing consensus that the post-world war i middle east boundaries are coming undone .
indeed , the viability of syria , a multi- ethnic state , is being threatened by multiple armed groups supported by external sponsors – iran , saudi arabia , qatar , russia , the united states , turkey , france , and many private donors – who themselves have conflicting aims .
here are three ways to simplify the equation and maximize the chances that the parties to the geneva ii peace conference will be able to agree on more than the des ir ability of someday holding a geneva iii .
first , the most important contribution that this conference can make to the possibility of a negotiated settlement and a political transition in syria is to change the principal parties ’ incentives .
in the run-up to geneva ii , each party has sought to strengthen its hand at the negotiating table by killing as many adversaries and holding or regaining as much ground as possible .
the task now for would-be peace brokers is to halt that dynamic by agreeing on criteria for participation in whatever elections will eventually be held , regardless of whether president bashar al-assad remains in power until then .
those criteria must include the parties ’ willingness to allow humanitarian aid to flow to all syrian civilians under their control and an end to war crimes and crimes against humanity , including systematic targeting of medical personnel , starvation of populations under siege , and execu tions of war prisoners .
here the un must reaffirm its “ responsibility to protect ” doctrine , not as a justification for military intervention , but as a fundamental principle agreed by all countries : governments must protect their citizens .
second , the international community must re-establish the basis for its engagement .
when the syrian conflict began , it was an internal matter , with un involvement limited to humanitarian and refugee issues .
but now the conflict has spread across the middle east , destabilizing lebanon and jordan and threatening to frac ture iraq .
the un security council is charged with addressing breaches or threats to international peace , a criterion that is now clearly met .
as a permanent member of the security council , russia thus has an obligation to act ; it ( and china ) can no longer hide behind the argument that the un should not be engaged in syria ’ s internal affairs .
at a time when the winter olympic games in sochi put russia squarely on the international stage , the us and other security council members should plan a series of resolutions that confront the kremlin with the choice of meeting its responsibility or applying its own leverage to bring the conflict to an end .
finally , the single most important step that us president barack obama could take is to put the credible threat of force back on the table .
in three years of increasingly bloody conflict , the only diplomatic success was achieved when assad believed that he faced us missile strikes .
he suddenly saw the des ir ability of getting rid of his chemical weapons .
but most experts believe that military force is off the table .
the us public sharply rejected obama ’ s planned missile strikes to punish assad for the repeated use of chemical weapons , and a recent pew poll indicates that a majority of americans believe that the us “ should mind its own business internationally and let other countries get along the best they can on their own . ”
obama ’ s job , however , is to look beyond opinion polls , particularly when it comes to safeguarding national security .
the us has withdrawn from afghanistan and iraq , but the gains so painfully won are being reversed .
al qaeda is back and is fighting for its own pro to- state in western iraq and eastern syria , which is far closer to europe and the us than the c aves of afghanistan .
perhaps obama thinks that he or his successor can deal with that threat down the road .
if al qaeda oper atives begin threatening the us from the islamic state of iraq and syria , the us will just take them out with drones , as it has done in afghanistan , pakistan , and yemen .
but if he is willing to contemplate using force against al qaeda without international authorization in the future , why not use drones now to strengthen the moderate syrian opposition and force assad into serious negotiations ?
the threat of cru is e- missile strikes last september was enough to send al qaeda members in syria scram bling for the h ills .
a strike designed to destroy assad ’ s air force and prevent him from dropping bombs full of n ails on his people would concentrate his mind on a diplomatic solution .
obama should announce that the us is committed to a political solution in syria , and that his government will do whatever it can to bring about such a solution through next week ’ s peace conference and follow-up action .
but if a ceasefire has not been achieved in the next three months , the us should work with regional organizations and all friends of the syrian people to author ize a set of military strikes on al qaed a- linked forces and on the killing machine that assad ’ s government has aimed at civilians .
the obama administration should make the case for this to the american people in terms of straightforward us security interests .
after all , if geneva ii fails , geneva iii will not be about syria alone .
it will be about how to end a war raging across the entire middle east .
world cup america
washington , dc – something changed – or perhaps was revealed – in the united states during the last month .
many millions more americans watched the world cup soccer tournament in english and spanish than ever before .
true , with the world cup ’ s end , many are arguing , as usual , that americans pay attention only every four years – and only when the us is playing .
but this time something was different : americans continued to watch even after the us team was eliminated .
that is more than the usual view ership for esp n ’ s mon day night football , the biggest regular television draw for fans of american football .
almost every young person at my organization , new america , found ways to watch the us games in the early rounds .
my apartment mate explained that everyone in her office , in the us department of education , had used the excuse of a birthday party to watch the us- germany match .
on the tu es day after noon when the us played belgium in the kno ck out round , every bar in as pen , color ado , was packed .
of course , as pen is one of the country ’ s wealthiest communities , and perhaps not representative of the us as a whole .
but us television showed an enormous crowd of fans in kansas city following the us- belgium match on a large outdoor screen .
it was not quite the equivalent of the final match between italy and france in 2006 , when virtually every small italian town turned out to watch on the main square ; but americans all over the country spent the month duc king out of work and into sports bars .
america ’ s growing embrace of soccer reflects some important ways in which the us has “ joined ” the world .
for starters , both the us team and the us audience for soccer derive their growing strength from immigrants – many from countries where the sport is a national passion .
for example , in washington , dc , almost all taxi drivers are newcomers to america .
when my driver was ethi opian , as often happened , we would commis er ate over the national team ’ s defeat by nigeria in a qual ifying round , then celebrate the us defeat of ghana , and end by agreeing that in four years , or certainly in eight , the us team would be among the world ’ s best .
in almost every case , my driver would tell me that his children were playing in local youth le agues .
these immigrants are not only providing homegrown soccer talent for us teams ; they are a core part of the expanding us audience for soccer worldwide .
dan levy , lead writer for the us sports website the ble ach er report , points out that most commentators define “ american soccer ” as the number of americans who watch american players in us league play .
obviously , that is a ridic ulous metric .
us ten nis fans watch ten nis wherever it is played all over the world , and the us audience for gol f does not plummet when a tournament is played in the sport ’ s birth place , scotland .
more americans watch soccer in the european and mexican le agues , in english and in spanish , than watch bas e ball and ice h oc key , traditionally considered two of the “ big four ” us sports ( along with american football and bas ke t ball ) .
for the us , in particular , the world cup is a great equ aliz er .
my mother is originally belg ian , though she has been a us citizen for over 50 years ; i still have an un cle , a unt , and cou sins in brussels .
during the us- belgium match , emails fle w fast and th ick across the family network , with lots of friendly rivalry .
my mother claimed divided loyalty , because belgium , after all , was “ the david against the mighty gol ia th . ”
her three american children all weighed in simultaneously , pointing out that in soccer it is the us that is the under dog .
where else can the us experience what it is like to be a small country on the global stage ?
like viewers around the world , americans rooted for their team together , regardless of their domestic differences .
at a bar in as pen , where the only open seat was at a table with an older man and his son- in-law ( who welcomed me and offered to put my be er on their t ab ) , we che ered and gro aned whenever the us got close to scoring a goal or missed a kick .
in the periodic short breaks , we s ounded each other out enough to find out that we were definitely in opposing political camps .
given the current state of polarization in us politics , i think it is likely that in most other settings , my t abl em ates would not willingly have bought several rounds of be er for someone who spent two years working at the state department for hillary clinton .
here , though , we were che ering not for our political side , but for our national side .
as our team maneu vered the ball down the field , politics fell away .
but the olympics is a s mor gas bor d of sports , each with its core of devo tees , who often che er on their favor ites at the same time , but separately , in different ar en as .
and , more often than not , what we are witnessing is individual achievement – the deeply concentrated ag ility and courage of the down hill rac er or the fin ely disciplined movements of the g ym n ast – rather than true team effort .
the world cup allows all of the supporters of one country to come together at one moment for one game between two groups that must , like them , become more than the sum of their parts .
it actually feels incomplete to watch the world cup alone .
at the end of the game , amid regret over the loss to mighty belgium but convinced that the us had played a great game , my new friend said : “ we need much more of this . ”
us exceptionalism remains alive and well , of course .
i suspect that we will always call the world ’ s game “ soccer . ”
but now we love it , and it is our game , too .
the shareholder spring continues
london – it is annual general meeting season – the time of year when some of the world ’ s biggest companies gather to report to shareholders and have some semblance of a conversation with them .
for the next couple of months , a succession of companies will talk about what influenced their performance over the previous year , what they are planning for the future , and the decisions that their boards have made .
there was a time when these meetings took place without much fanfare , mostly unnoticed by the public .
that has not been true for a couple of years .
a worsening economy and widening inequality have spurred more people to become more engaged and take an interest in the activities of companies and those who run them .
and , with that change , attention has broadened from ceos and executive teams to those who previously existed in a black box : the companies ’ board members .
in 2012 , shareholders and others started shining a bright light on boards , questioning their decisions and activities , and those of individual members , and thus was born the shareholder spring .
people grew tired of t one- deaf board directors operating in s ound proof rooms , seemingly ignoring economic realities and the public ’ s mood .
they wanted to confront those who decide on executives ’ often eye - pop ping compensation or approve companies ’ decisions to undertake sophisticated tax engineering .
people wanted to know whether board members were actually doing their jobs or just filling seats and collecting a nice fee .
many companies and company boards hoped that this heightened interest would pass quickly ; instead , it has mat ured .
discontent has continued to mount , and investors , employees , politicians , and members of the public now want to know not only about executive compensation , but also about the frequently staggering discrepancy between what companies ’ high est - and low est- paid personnel earn .
they want to know about living wages and zero- hours contracts .
they want to know what companies are doing to address climate change , whether they are responsible community members , how they behave in conflict zones , and much more .
those asking the questions are no longer content to protest outside .
they are becoming increasingly sophisticated about how to be heard , buying shares , stepping up to the micro phone , and looking board members in the eye , so that their questions become part of the official minutes .
and they are putting pressure on companies ’ major investors to hold board members to account as well .
the questions posed and statements made can sometimes be long win ded .
but many of them are legitimate , and they are an important reminder to boards that they must serve the company ’ s entire ecosystem – investors , employees , customers , and community alike .
indeed , these open meetings are a reminder that board members must ask the hard questions all year round , rather than simply rub ber- st amping management proposals or going along to get along .
these were once fairly st aid gather ings .
the companies ’ senior management would walk investors and board members through the reporting form alities step by step , present results , take questions , vote , and move on .
there was tea , coffee , and bis cu its , but nothing f ancy .
in recent years , however , there has been a trend toward a more carn iv al- like atmosphere , with companies bringing in big- name enter tain ers and turning the event into a fe el- good pe p rally .
last year , wal-mart ’ s annual meeting featured harry con n ick , jr. , rob in th ic ke , and ph ar rel l willi ams .
in 2013 , el ton john performed .
in contrast , other companies have swung to the opposite extreme and embraced fully virtual meetings .
the board ga thers in front of a camer a for a live web cast to shareholders , takes questions submitted in advance , and avoids the protesters altogether .
this year , h p joined s print and mar th a stewar t living om nim edi a down this road .
there is a virtue to having a meeting with a virtual component : businesses are global , and so are their investors , who can participate without having to get on a plane .
but a web cast of a meeting with a live audience would be the ideal combination .
and while companies might argue that entirely virtual meetings save money – which of course is true – investors do not need rob in th ic ke .
they will settle for good numbers , serious discussion , and a dry bis cu it .
boards and managers must take these meetings seriously .
part of the job is facing those with something at stake .
hosting circ uses or hiding behind cameras will not keep tough questions from coming .
a seat at the boar dro om table comes with the responsibility to stand up and do this vital part of the job – in person and without mus ical accompan im ent .
an obama moment for india ’ s un tou ch ables
new delhi – among the many international consequences of barack obama ’ s stunning victory in the united states is worldwide intro spec tion about whether such a breakthrough could happen elsewhere .
could a person of color win power in other white- majority countries ?
could a member of a beleaguered minority transcend the circumstances of his birth to lead his or her country ?
while many analysts in a wide variety of nations , especially in europe , have concluded that such an event could not occur there in the foreseeable future , india is an exception .
minority politicians have long wiel ded authority , if not power , in its various high offices .
indeed , india ’ s last general election , in 2004 , was won by a woman of italian heritage and roman catholic faith ( s onia gandhi ) who made way for a si k h ( manmohan singh ) to be sworn in as prime minister by a muslim ( president abdu l kal am ) in a country that is 81 % hindu .
not only could it happen here , indians say , it already has .
such complacency is premature .
the closest indian analogy to the position of black americans is that of the dal its – formerly called “ un tou ch ables , ” the out cast es who for millennia suffered humiliating discrimination and oppression .
like bl acks in the us , dal its account for about 15 % of the population ; they are found disproportionately in low- status , low-income jobs ; their levels of educational attainment are lower than the upper cast es ; and they still face daily incidents of discrimination for no reason other than their identity at birth .
only when a dal it rules india can the country truly be said to have attained its own “ obama moment . ”
but the indian presidency is a largely ceremon ial position : real power is vested in the office of prime minister , and no dal it has come close to holding that post .
since independence in 1947 , a majority of india ’ s prime ministers have been bra h min s , the highest hindu caste .
yet the next national elections , due before may 2009 , may produce a plausible dal it contender for the job of prime minister – k um ari may aw ati , the female chief minister of india ’ s largest state , u tt ar pradesh .
since 1991 , no indian governing party has enjoyed a secure parliamentary majority on its own , necess itating multi- party coalition governments .
the current congress par ty- led government of manmohan singh comprises 20 parties ; it succeeded a 2 3- party coalition headed by the bharatiya janata party ’ s atal bi har i v aj pa ye e .
when the election results are declared next year , no one doubts that the first challenge will be to co b ble together another coalition .
both the congress and the bjp will seek to make alliances with the dozens of smaller parties likely to be represented in parliament .
but this time they are likely to face a third alternative : may aw ati , whose ba hu jan sam aj party ( b sp ) may command a bloc of at least 50 seats .
she has publicly expressed her disdain for both large national parties ; she would much rather lead a coalition than join one .
and if the electoral numbers break down right , she could conceivably assemble a collection of regional and left-wing parties and stake a claim to rule india .
this is a remarkable development : the idea that a dal it woman could lead india has been inconceivable for 3,000 years .
but india ’ s democracy has opened new pathways to empowerment for its under classes .
the poor and the oppressed may not have much , but they do have the numbers , which is what matters at the ballot box .
dal its and india ’ s ab origin als ( listed in the constitution as “ scheduled cast es and tribes ” ) are entitled to 85 seats in india ’ s 5 4 3- member parliament that are “ reserved ” for candidates from their communities .
may aw ati ’ s shrew d alliances , including with some members of the upper cast es , which propelled her to power in u tt ar pradesh , give her party a fighting chance to win a number of other seats as well .
in a coal iti on- dependent parliamentary system , that could be all she needs to become prime minister .
the daughter of a government cler k , may aw ati studied law and worked as a teacher before being spot ted by the b sp ’ s founder , the late k an shi r am , and gro omed for political leadership .
her ascent has been marked by a heavy emphasis on symbolism – her rule in u tt ar pradesh has featured the construction of numerous stat ues of dal it leaders , notably herself – and a taste for lavish celebrations .
may aw ati ’ s weakness for “ bling ” has been demonstrated at her extravagant birthday parties , which she presid es over laden with diamonds , saying ( rather like ev ita per on ) that her luster brings glam our and dignity to her people .
she takes pride in being the indian politician who pays the highest income taxes – about $ 6 million last year – though the sources of her income are sh rou ded in controversy .
she has been accused , but not convicted , of corruption several times , with one notable case involving the construction of an elaborate shopping complex near the ta j mah al , in violation of z oning laws .
critics argue that may aw ati ’ s promotion of dal it welfare seems to start with herself .
but there is no denying that her rise to power in india ’ s largest state , which sends 80 members to parliament , has given her a vital platform to bid for india ’ s most powerful job .
with her diamonds and her stat ues , and a reputation for dealing imperi ously with her subordin ates , she ’ s clearly no obama .
but if she succeeds , she will have overcome a far longer legacy of discrimination .
a no-fly zone for syria
brussels – there is a saying , too often used in interpre ting international relations , that my enemy ’ s enemy is my friend .
sometimes it proves true ; often it does not .
thirty years ago , the afghan mu j ah ed in were mistaken for friends of the west when they fought their country ’ s soviet inv aders .
syria ’ s deepening crisis , and the criminal use of chemical weapons there , has created a similar dynamic and dilemma .
but the west need not risk making the same mistake and accepting the same false choices .
begin with first principles .
a chemical-weapons attack on the scale just seen in syria must be deemed a game changer .
although possessing these weapons of mass destruction is technically not illegal , most states are parties to the 1993 chemical weapons convention , which syria has refused to sign .
so the answer to the question “ what happens next ? ” can not be “ nothing . ”
principles of international law – in particular , the emerging “ responsibility to protect ” doctrine and enforcement of the global ban on the use of chemical weapons – dictate that some form of military intervention must occur in order to deter others from using w m ds , particularly against civilians .
but which measures are appropriate and genuinely useful ?
what is more likely to strengthen the west ’ s security , and what runs the risk of weakening it ?
i believe that the fai rest and simplest proportion ate response would be to impose a no-fly zone on syria .
the proposal is particularly appropriate in the likely absence of any resolution under united nations chapter vi i ( “ action with respect to threats to the peace ” ) , owing to the ( almost certain ) cynical use by russia and china of their veto power in the security council .
of course , claims and counter- claims have been sw ir ling in the aftermath of the appalling chemical-weapons attack on a rebel -controlled area east of damascus .
but , given the brutality of president bashar al-assad ’ s regime , no one can doubt the leng ths to which it would go to hide its guilt .
the five- day delay in allowing un chemical-weapons experts to verify the attack gave assad ’ s government ample time to conceal in crimin ating evidence , allow it to de grade , or destroy it with further shel ling .
the united states , france , and the united kingdom are adamant that all the intelligence and eye witness evidence points to the assad government as the perpetr ator of the attack .
there also is no doubt about the legitimacy of concerns about elements of the syrian opposition .
the al qaed a- led and salaf ist extremist groups in the rebel forces , such a al n us ra , have proved to be just as vicious as the government and its allies , the iranian proxy hezbollah and iran ’ s revolutionary guard .
but the united view of western intelligence services is that there is no evidence that these rebel groups launched the chemical-weapons attack .
in these circumstances , a no-fly zone would not only clear the sk ies of syrian war planes and missiles , thereby reducing the scale of the slaughter ; it would also show assad and his supporters that he truly is vulnerable .
generals ordered to use chemical weapons would have to reckon with the prospect that the regime could , actually , fall , and that they then might find themselves on trial for war crimes .
it would be better , of course , if russia and china would allow the security council to do the job for which it was intended – securing peace and preventing war crimes .
by continuing to support assad despite his use of chemical weapons , russia ’ s standing in the arab world has gone from patron to pariah .
what little moral and political standing russian president vladimir putin has retained in the rest of the world is also evapor ating , as he will soon discover at the upcoming g-20 summit in saint petersburg .
but the world can not hold its breath waiting for a change of heart by putin and china , which is why a no-fly zone should be examined as a military option .
in the aftermath of the gulf war in 1991 , a no-fly zone , initially proposed by british prime minister john major , did not topple saddam hussein , but it did prevent him from carrying out further attacks from the air on kurds in the north and shia in the south .
likewise , a no-fly zone in syria would immediately restrict the syrian government ’ s means of delivery of weapons of mass destruction .
some military experts may say that syria ’ s air- defense systems are too sophisticated to suppress , making a no-fly zone too dangerous to enforce .
but israel has managed to attack syrian territory twice – destroying a north kore an- staff ed nuclear reactor in 2007 and , more recently , striking a hezbollah con voy – with no casualties or loss of planes .
mindful of this weakness , russia has offered syria its more modern s- 300 missiles ; but there is no evidence that they have arrived , let alone been deployed .
any malicious wishful thinking on the part of assad ’ s regime would be dis p elled with every glance at the sky .
an old problem on china ’ s new frontier
warsaw – had the august 1991 put sch against mikhail gorbachev not failed , the riots and death recently seen in xinjiang could have been taking place in russia .
instead of hearing about a crackdown in ur um q i , xinjiang ’ s capital , we might be reading about hundreds killed on the streets of al mat y , and column ists would be making comparisons to the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in l vo v the previous year .
as with china today , there would have been some feeble international condemnation , and some speculation about possible links between kaz ak h militants and exile groups , or islamic fundamentalists .
experts would remind us that kazakhstan had never been a country , and that ukrainian claims to independence are historically dubious .
substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine and you get the picture .
but that put sch , than k fully , ended as a far ce . the dec aying soviet regime was unable to crush russia ’ s growing democratic movement – it would take vladimir putin to do that a decade later .
by opting for the tiananmen square massacre in 1989 , the chinese communist leadership set their country on a road starkly different from the one on which russia subsequently embarked .
though china ’ s policies have brought about pin o che t- style economic growth , if on the scale of a country that is almost a continent un to itself , they have also ensured that there is in no freedom for anyone , including the han majority .
this , in turn , means that , while kazakhstan and ukraine are independent , tibet and xinjiang alter nate between phases of violent ag itation and bloody repression .
though russia today is autocr atically governed , the introduction of a chinese- style dictatorship seems hardly plausible , while gdp per capita was $ 15 , 800 last year , or almost three times that of china .
yet a majority of the chinese population seems to support its ’ government ’ s policies , including its brutal suppression of minorities and denial of democratic freedoms .
in fact , the latter seems to be the price paid for the success of the former .
this is not a novel phenomenon .
in 18 63 , the russian democratic é migr é thin ker alexander her zen , comm enting on the brutal crushing of the polish uprising by the t sar ist army , wrote in his publication kol ok ol that acceptance of violence on the streets of warsaw meant the acceptance of violence on the streets of st. petersburg .
oppression is a package deal . his comments cost him his russian read ership , and kol ok ol had to close down .
when her zen was writing his words , moscow was not only busy successfully putting down the poles , reasser ting its rule there for another half-century , but also , together with china , car ving up central asia , known then as turk est an .
the eastern part of the region fell under chinese rule , and was ren amed xinjiang , or new frontier .
each time chinese rule weakened , as in the 1930 ’ s and 1940 ’ s , short-lived east turk est an republics were established , with russian support , only to fl ounder when russia and china struck new deals .
the leadership of the second east turk est an republic was presumably murdered on stalin ’ s orders , when the plane carrying it to beijing for talks allegedly crashed in soviet airspace .
since then , east turk est an has existed solely on paper , as a member of the un represented nations and peoples organization ( un po ) , a would-be competitor of the united nations set up in 1991 .
in xinjiang itself , the current ag itation is more social than nationalist in character , and targets cultural oppression ( han chinese by now make up half of the region ’ s population ) rather than expressing aspirations for independence .
yet the recent blood ba th there is almost sure to change that , as violence un avoid ably breeds radicalization .
in the short and medium term , china ’ s rule in xinjiang and tibet seems secure : the international community will not challenge a security council member state .
only its own citizens could do that , but her zen ’ s package deal seems to prevent that : just like the tibet ans , the u igh urs el icit not han solidarity , but a bra ying for their blood – somewhat understandable , given that ordinary han in l has a and ur um q i were made to pay with their own for china ’ s mis deeds .
in the longer term , however , the chinese authorities have every reason to be worried : xinjiang will grow to be a problem like tibet .
indeed , though the un po , to which both belong – alongside as syria and the buff al o river den e nation – has a v agu ely marx brothers ’ air to it ( one expects freed onia , the myth ical country of which grou ch o marx was prime minister , to be on the ro ster ) , six member states already have left it to join the un , and kosovo , now independent if lacking un recognition , will eventually follow . political maps are never car ved in stone .
it is therefore safe to assume that not only obscure academics and cor respondents , but officials in beijing as well , are now busy studying the history of the gh ul ja uprising and of os man bat ur ’ s guer ill as .
an opec for migrant labor ?
dubai – in september 1960 , delegates from iran , iraq , kuwait , saudi arabia , and venezuela met in baghdad to form the organization of petroleum exporting countries .
as the world ’ s dependence on oil increased , so did opec ’ s power .
today , with many developing countries , including a majority of the countries in the middle east , serving as some of the world ’ s main labor exporters , might it be time to consider the formation of an op ec -like cartel for migrant workers ?
opec succeeded in protecting its members ’ shared interests that they could not protect individually .
when a market has structural distortions , political tools and collective action of the sort that opec embodied can be more effective than public policy .
labor- exporting countries today are not so different from opec ’ s founding members in 1960 .
they , too , are vulnerable in a market where their customers call the shots .
rich labor- importing countries and poor labor- exporting countries have a mutually dependent relationship ; but labor importers can unilaterally tighten or loosen immigration or labor-market regulations , leaving exporters in a constant state of uncertainty .
this imbalance can have serious costs for labor exporters .
remittances by expatri ate workers are an essential lifeline for many developing countries – more so than any other financial inflows , including foreign direct investment and aid – and often help to balance a country ’ s books .
indeed , according to the world bank , in 2013 remittances amounted to 20- 24 % of gdp in the philippines and indonesia , 42 % in tajikistan , 32 % in kyrgyzstan , 17 % in lebanon , 1 0.8 % in jordan , 9. 9 % in yemen , and 6. 6 % in egypt and morocco .
for many developing countries , labor is a strategic production factor , just as commodities are for resource-rich economies .
when we think about migrant labor , we think of low-skill work in agriculture , construction , services , and domestic work .
but countries such as jordan and lebanon ( among others ) are now educating workers to compete as high- skilled expatri ates , too .
labor exporters now need to protect their investments in human capital , and a car tel -like political body is the most effective way to do this .
if the countries listed above were to join with china , mexico , india , and other major labor exporters , they would be holding most of the chips in a collective negotiation about wages , visa terms , and other conditions – some of which would also benefit non- members as global norms changed .
labor importers would have to vie for access to a collective market , rather than individual national markets , and countries that gained access would have a significant comparative advantage over those that did not .
a cartel would prevent labor- exporting countries from cann ib alizing their own interests , as currently happens with bilateral arrangements .
for example , if they were to conclude separate agreements with gulf cooperation council countries , individual southeast asian countries would undercut one another , with the result that they might end up with worse deals .
with a cartel , governments would instead set minimum-wage rates for different professions and trades , as well as for different skill levels .
as exporters trained their migrant workforces , demand for their labor would grow and spark competition among v enders rather than suppliers , thus fueling a virtuous cycle of higher wages and even more skills training .
and , because this would all happen on global markets , the prices of certain skills would become more transparent to training institutions , students , employees , and employers alike .
in this new system , importing countries would collect taxes – on the basis of the newly set minimum wage – and remittances would remain un taxed .
in this sense , the cartel would double as an international workers ’ union , lending bargaining power to employees in countries where unions are weak or not permitted at all .
a labor- exporting cartel would have far-reaching effects on the current system .
cartel members would be empowered to reward and penalize third parties acting in bad faith .
and , most important , the workers themselves would be empowered to reclaim their dignity in a system that has long stripped them of it .
indeed , we could expect xenophobia to wane worldwide as access to foreign workers became more privileged .
under a newly negotiated arrangement , labor- exporting countries would likely have an incentive to curb free rid ers and illegal emigration , and labor- importing countries would likely have an incentive to leg alize and manage the status of illegal immigrants already within their borders .
one likely objection to this proposal is that low-skilled labor will cost more , which could accelerate automation .
but the jobs automation displaced from the production sector would simply move to the leisure sector , because demand for domestic workers , wa it ers , gar den ers , and the like would increase .
because a cartel would make these market changes more discern ible , labor exporters would be able to respond and adjust their work er- training systems accordingly , increasing labor importers ’ ability to recruit migrant workers better suited to the available jobs .
all told , a labor- exporting cartel would bring order to an industry that has long been mired in controversy , damaging the reputations of more than a few labor- importing countries .
it would change the dynamics of labor supply and demand to the benefit of both workers – who would have new protections – and importing countries , which would have access to trained laborers to respond to rapid changes – often driven by technology – in economic conditions .
an open letter to ehud olmert
dear mr. olmert ,
i am writing you in the hope that you will take time from your busy schedule as israel ’ s acting prime minister to hear one palestinian ’ s hopes .
even though your as cen sion to the position of prime minister came in an awkward way because of ariel sharon ’ s stroke , i believe that you have an opportunity to be part of a historic reconciliation .
while i am sure you will insist that you are going to follow in the political legacy of sharon , you have some important advantages with palestinians that sharon did not have .
the first advantage is that you ’ re not burdened with ariel sharon ’ s negative image among palestinians and arabs .
having been the mayor of jerusalem for 10 years , you know the situation of palestinians close up .
i believe that the chances for a political breakthrough in our region have never been better .
on the israeli side , your faith in the political process was demonstrated recently when you and sharon decided unilaterally to go against your own ideology and take on the powerful settl er movement .
the two of you also went against conventional israeli thinking by breaking away from your likud party , greatly weakening the ideological strang le hold that likud ’ s far-right central committee held on israeli politics .
the realization that withdrawal from populated areas , and thus an end to holding another people under permanent occupation , was necessary to preserve the jewish nature of israel clearly brought the two of you to the center of israeli thinking .
on a much smaller scale , significant change has been taking place on the palestinian side as well .
while i believe that the occupation , rather than the reaction to it , is the main cause of our conflict , the unilateral ta h di a ( “ declared calm ” ) decision by palestinian militant groups has reduced anti- israeli attacks migh tily , which shows that palestinians also realize the limits of their military actions .
the decision by hamas to join the political process by participating in the upcoming legislative elections shows that even this hardline islamic movement has concluded that our conflict needs to be addressed by political rather than military means .
while i understand that you are an israeli patri ot , i believe that much can be done to reduce the tensions between our two peoples , eventually leading to genuine reconciliation and peace .
as a start , priority must be given to face-to- face negotiations .
sharon and you might have felt that unilateral action was needed in gaza , but the withdrawal from gaza could have produced many more benefits for both sides had it been done bilater ally .
direct talks should concentrate on two parallel tracks .
they should attempt to produce an immediate c ess ation of violence from both sides while simultaneously focusing on a permanent settlement of our conflict .
contrary to territorial withdrawal , c ess ation of violence can be achieved only bilater ally .
both sides should commit to an end to assass inations , shel ling , bombings , and any other form of attacks on the other side ’ s military targets and citizens .
to be effective , such a cease-fire must contain a monitoring mechanism .
neutral foreign observers should be asked to be deployed in major hot spots and be asked to identify anyone on either side who violates any of the agreement ’ s clauses .
historically , cease- fires have survived only when they are backed by talks that both parties believe are genuine and serious .
at the same time , the atmosphere among palestinians and their attitude towards israel must be improved , so that we can have a political environment that supports negotiations .
improving the daily conditions of life , particularly increasing palestinians ’ freedom of travel both between gaza and the west bank and within the west bank , will also go a long way in helping to create a positive atmosphere .
i truly wish you success in your responsibilities as acting prime minister and acting head of kadima .
your efforts to move forward towards resolving the palestin ian- israeli conflict will generate significant improvement in the political atmosphere in the entire middle east .
but , whatever you do in the next few months to win the forthcoming parliamentary elections , please remember that the support that kadima has received from the israeli public derives precisely from the fact that it has taken a moderate centrist position .
so please don ’ t allow yourself to be drawn into pand ering to israel ’ s radicals and hawks .
the support that you and your colleagues will get from israelis and arabs will depend on the resolve that you show in making serious progress in the peace process .
that process , now as before , must culmin ate in an independent and democratic palestine alongside a safe and secure israel .
another asian wake-up call
new haven – for the second time in three years , global economic recovery is at risk .
in 2008 , it was all about the subprime crisis made in america .
today , it is the sovereign-debt crisis made in europe .
the alarm bel ls should be r inging loud and clear across asia – an export-led region that can not afford to ignore repeated shocks to its two largest sources of external demand .
indeed , both of these shocks will have long-lasting repercussions .
in the united states , the american consumer ( who still accounts for 71 % of us gdp ) remains in the wrenching throes of a japanese- like balance-sheet recession .
in the 15 quarters since the beginning of 2008 , real consumer spending has increased at an anemic 0.4 % average annual rate .
never before has america , the world ’ s biggest consumer , been so weak for so long .
until us households make greater progress in reducing excessive debt lo ads and rebuilding personal savings – a process that could take many more years if it continues at its recent sn ail -like pace – a balance- she et- constrained us economy will remain hob bled by exceedingly slow growth .
a comparable outcome is likely in europe .
even under the now seemingly heroic assumption that the eurozone will survive , the outlook for the european economy is bleak .
the crisis- torn peripheral economies – greece , ireland , portugal , italy , and even spain – are already in recession .
and economic growth is threatened in the once- solid core of germany and france , with leading indicators – especially sharply declining german orders data – fl ashing ominous signs of incipient weakness .
moreover , with fiscal austerity likely to restrain aggregate demand in the years ahead , and with capital- short banks likely to curtail lending – a serious problem for europe ’ s bank- centric system of credit intermediation – a pan-european recession seems inevitable .
the european commission recently slashed its 2012 gdp growth forecast to 0.5 % – tee tering on the brink of outright recession .
the risks of further cuts to the official outlook are high and rising .
it is difficult to see how asia can remain an o asis of prosperity in such a tough global climate .
yet denial is deep , and momentum is seduc tive .
after all , asia has been on such a roll in recent years that far too many believe that the region can shru g off almost anything that the rest of the world dis hes out .
if anything , asia ’ s vulnerability to external shocks has intensified .
on the eve of the great recession of 2008-2009 , exports had soared to a record 44 % of combined gdp for asia ’ s emerging markets – fully ten percentage points higher than the export share prevailing during asia ’ s own crisis in 1997-1998 .
so , while post-crisis asia focused in the 2000 ’ s on repairing the financial vulnerabilities that had wre aked such havoc – namely , by am assing huge foreign-exchange reserves , turning current-account deficits into surpluses , and reducing its outsize exposure to short-term capital inflows – it failed to rebalance its economy ’ s macro structure .
in fact , asia became more reliant on exports and external demand for economic growth .
as a result , when the shock of 2008-2009 hit , every economy in the region either experienced a sharp slowdown or fell into outright recession .
a similar outcome can not be ruled out in the months ahead .
after tum bling sharply in 2008-2009 , the export share of emerging asia is back up to its earlier high of around 44 % of gdp – leaving the region just as exposed to an extern al- demand shock today as it was heading into the subprime crisis three years ago .
china – long the engine of the all-powerful asian growth machine – typ ifies asia ’ s potential vulnerability to such shocks from the developed economies .
indeed , europe and the us , combined , accounted for fully 38 % of total chinese exports in 2010 – easily its two largest foreign markets .
the recent data leave little doubt that asia is now starting to feel the impact of the latest global shock .
as was the case three years ago , china is leading the way , with annual export growth plummeting in october 2011 , to 16 % , from 31 % in october 2010 – and likely to slow further in coming months .
in hong kong , exports actually contracted by 3 % in september – the first year- on- year decline in 23 months .
similar trends are evident in sharply deceler ating exports in korea and taiwan .
even in india – long thought to be among asia ’ s most shoc k- resistant economies – annual export growth plunged from 44 % in august 2011 to just 11 % in october .
as was true three years ago , many hope for an asian “ decoupling ” – that this high- flying region will be immune to global shocks .
but , with gdp growth now slowing across asia , that hope appears to be wishful thinking .
the good news is that a powerful investment-led impetus should partly offset declining export growth and allow asia ’ s landing to be soft rather than hard .
all bets would be off , however , in the event of a eurozone breakup and a full-blown european implosion .
this is asia ’ s second wake-up call in three years , and this time the region needs to take the warning seriously .
with the us , and now europe , facing long roads to recovery , asia ’ s emerging economies can no longer afford to count on solid growth in external demand from the advanced countries to sustain economic development .
unless they want to settle for slower growth , lagging labor absorption , and heightened risk of social instability , they must move aggressively to shift focus to the region ’ s own 3.5 billion consumers .
the need for a consumer- led asian rebalancing has never been greater .
another balkan high noon
with the world focused on iraq , north korea , and a possible clash with iran over nuclear weapons , kosovo has fallen off the radar screen .
that in attention will end soon ; a decision about the province ’ s fate is looming .
the united states and its european friends have repeatedly stated their intent to make the difficult decision before the end of the year on whether to separate kosovo from serbia .
this decision – crucial to the future of an unstable region – will test western determination and unity .
negotiations this year in vienna , brokered by the united nations , showed that an agreed settlement between serbia and kosovo on “ final status ” will not happen .
talks continue , but , as un negotiator and former fin nish president mar t ti ah ti sa ari diplom atically told the security council , they are effectively dead .
indeed , prime minister vo j isl av ko stun ica , the ap ost le of serbian nationalism , has been trying in every way to undermine kosovo ’ s interim government .
he is rushing to hold a national referendum this month on a new constitution without serious parliamentary debate or the usual public education .
the main purpose of his new constitution is its pre am ble , which enshr ines kosovo as an in ali enable part of serbia .
kosovo ’ s ethnic alban ians have proclaimed that they will not accept any tie to serbia , no matter how ten uous .
throughout the 1990 ’ s , they virtually opted out of ser bi an- run kosovo by creating parallel institutions .
their forced mass exodus in 1999 and nato ’ s subsequent intervention , which ended serbia ’ s rule and established a quasi- state under un administration , has made anything other than independence intolerable .
some time over the next month or two , the balkan contact group — the us , uk , france , germany , italy , and russia – will consider ah ti sa ari ’ s recommendations on kosovo ’ s final status and possibly propose a solution to the security council , which must make the final decision .
in public , all contact group members have tried to leave the question of kosovo ’ s final status open , but informally the us and some of its allies have told the two parties that they will propose independence this year .
some members of the security council – particularly russia and china – are opposed to or skeptical of an imposed settlement , and few governments favor dividing up another country ’ s territory , however compelling the circumstances .
whether the security council will approve independence largely depends on averting a russian veto , which will require considerable diplomatic effort .
the nature of the independence best owed is also important .
an independent kosovo must be secured and its minorities protected .
northern kosovo , now largely under bel grade ’ s control , must not be parti tioned off in all but name .
in the interest of reducing the blow to serbia , the security council must avoid granting independence in ways that are so cont or ted that the new state can not effectively function .
if the security council fails to reach a decision on final status , it will produce a grave situation : kosovo would declare independence unilaterally , and all nations would have to make up their mind whether or not to recognize the new state .
if that happens , it is likely that the serbs of north kosovo would declare their own independence .
at a minimum , serbia would campaign strongly against recognition .
in fact , serbia ’ s government is already trying to persuade the west to postpone a decision until mid- 2007 .
it claims that if kosovo is granted independence , the ul tran ati onal ist radical party will come to power in the next elections , and believes that holding elections as early as this year will cause the contact group to delay a proposal to the security council .
moreover , the government has encouraged the leaders of bosnia ’ s repu b lik a sr p sk a to threaten to hold their own referendum on separation from a still fragile bosnia .
and they continue to push -- un successfully -- for ah ti sa ari ’ s removal in order to prolong the vienna talks .
the timing of the constitutional referendum appears to be a part of this delaying strategy .
some hope that postpon ement will stimulate violence in kosovo and further encourage western re consideration of independence .
that tactic may be working .
many european union countries are worried about the implications of taking away a country ’ s territory , as well as the impact of kosovo ’ s independence on serbian democracy .
given serbia ’ s political instability , they question the harm of a short-term postpon ement – albeit mostly self-inflicted .
but delay only offers more room for ko stun ica to find ways to make a security council decision more difficult .
the west must ignore bel grade ’ s sir en song .
serbian politics will be chaotic and unstable for the foreseeable future , and serbian politicians will attempt to present this as an excuse to avoid facing the loss of kosovo .
but failure to proceed definitively now on kosovo ’ s final status will produce a worse balkan situation , one that blocks serbia ’ s move toward the west and ultimate membership in the eu , condem ns kosovo ’ s ethnic minorities to dangerous ambiguity , and imper ils fragile states like bosnia and macedonia .
no realistic solution exists for kosovo but independence .
if serbia wants to join the west , it must not for sake that opportunity by tr apping itself in its nationalist past .
another bric in the wall ?
new york – conventional wisdom rarely survives a good stress test , and few tests have been as stres s ful as that which the global economy has endured over the past 24 months . a healthy season of re ap pra isal has daw ned , shining a new light on boom - time notions like the value of opaque markets , the un tou ch able status of the american consumer , or the wisdom of deregulation .
one piece of bubble wisdom that has escaped relatively un s cath ed , however , is the assumption that the “ bric ” countries – brazil , russia , india , and china – will increasingly call the economic tune in years to come .
the bric notion , coined in a 2003 goldman sachs report , is not all bad : at 75 % correct , it scores a good deal better than most economic pro gn os tic ations of the day .
yet the economic crisis that began in 2008 exposed one of the four as an im post or .
set the vital statistics of the bric economies side- by- side and it becomes painfully obvious that , in the words of the old s es ame street game , “ one of these things is not like the other . ”
the weakness of the russian economy and its highly leveraged banks and corporations , in particular , which was masked in recent years by the windfall brought by spi king oil and gas prices , burst into full view as the global economy tum bled .
saddled with a ru st- belt infrastructure , russia further dis qual ifies itself with dysfunctional and rev anch ist politics and a demographic trend in near- terminal decline .
even with the modest recovery in commodity prices over the past six months , russia ’ s energy sector has experienced declining production in recent years , due in part to fears among foreign investors of expropriation .
russia ’ s sovereign wealth fund , integral in propping up an increasingly re- centralized economy , is being depleted fast . if negative trends continue , russia ’ s reserve fund could eventually be exhausted .
russia ’ s fall back to earth , meanwhile , spawned a kind of parl or game among academics , foreign-policy won ks , and educated investors , aimed at replacing the country in the club of major emerging-market economies .
a variety of ac ron y ms has been suggested , from the cu tes y br ic et ( adding eastern europe and turkey ) to br ic kets ( the former plus south korea ) and – an even greater stretch – br im c , which sho e hor ns mexico into the mix .
in all of these revisions , russia survives , despite the writing on its economic wall .
while russia retains the world ’ s largest ( if somewhat aging ) arsenal of nuclear weapons , as well as a permanent seat ( and thus veto power ) on the un security council , it is more sick than bric .
purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary liability is the danger that the regime of its evil twin to the north will collapse and inund ate it with hungry refugees .
the same is true of turkey , with its robust banking sector , thriving domestic market , growing importance to middle east and energy politics , nato membership , european union membership bid , and ties to ethnic cou sins across central asia .
perhaps the most compelling case of all is that of indonesia , the world ’ s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has been a star per former in asia despite the global recession .
from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , which recently has vi ed with venezuela for leadership of the “ america in decline ” che ering section .
indonesia , moreover , has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a nation .
in sp ite of its diverse ethnic ma keup and far- fl ung island territory , the country has made a quick transition from military dictatorship and has recovered from myriad challenges and setbacks , including the 1997 asian financial crisis , the tsunami in 2004 , the emergence of radical islam , and domestic unrest .
while indonesia ’ s per capita gdp remains low , it is a country ’ s potential that matters in economic affairs , and here indonesia sh ines .
indonesia depends less on exports than its asian peers ( let alone russia ) , and its asset markets ( timber , pal m oil , and coal , in particular ) have attracted major foreign investment .
the government in jakarta , meanwhile , has taken a strong stand against corruption and moved to address structural problems .
even demographic trends favor indonesia , which , with 2 30 million people , is already the fourth largest country in the world by population – a full germany ( 8 0- plus million ) larger than russia .
but catch y ideas die hard , and russia has moved to cement the current concept of the brics into an irreversible reality .
the os si fication of the brics into a de facto global institution move forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ”
a few months earlier , the four were moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system .
in the private sector , bric index funds have prolifer ated , though goldman sachs has radically hed ged its own bric bet by introducing a second term – the “ next 11 , ” or n- 11 – to the debate .
this grouping adds bangladesh , egypt , indonesia , iran , mexico , nigeria , pakistan , the philippines , south korea , turkey , and vietnam to the economic radar , and , together with the four bric countries , probably comprises a more logical and def ensible “ first tier ” of emerging economies .
russia s ni ffs at the idea of demo tion , and american officials appear to have decided to steer clear of the sem antic debate .
still , it should surprise no one that russia lobbied hard for the ye k ater in burg bric summit , and foo ted the bill for much of it as well . why risk exposure too soon ?
another budd ha destroyed
new york -- the world watched in horror when taliban forces destroyed the monumental budd ha stat ues in bam i yan , afghanistan in 2001 .
political and cultural leaders from around the globe condemned the attacks .
offers of help poured in .
everyone asked : will the world be ready next time ?
alas , the answer is a resounding “ no . ”
in northwest pakistan ’ s sw at valley armed islamist militants recently attacked one of the oldest and most important s culp tures of buddhist art .
dating from around the beginning of the christian era , and car ved into a 13 0- foo t- high rock , the seated image of the budd ha was second in importance in south asia only to the bam i yan budd has .
this , moreover , was the second attack in less than a month .
mur ta za raz vi of pakistan ’ s dawn newspaper has pointed out that the image that was attacked was not in a remote area .
in fact , it was next to the central road that runs through the valley .
despite repeated requests by pakistani ar che ologists to the local authorities to protect the seated budd ha and other sites , especially after the first attack , no action was taken .
in fact , militants were able to carry out their work – drilling holes in the rock , filling them with explo sives , and deton ating them – in broad day light .
they did this not once , but twice .
the first time , the image escaped heavy damage because of the militants ’ incompetence .
the second time , they were more successful , destroying not only the s culp ture ’ s face , but also its shoulders and feet .
as if that were not enough , there are now reports of a third attack .
in 1995 , i traveled through the sw at valley to study the area ’ s buddhist treas ures .
car ved in the cliff side or protected in small beautiful museu ms , these remarkable objects were the pride and joy of local muslims , followers of the faith for more than a millennium .
as a non- muslim , indian woman , i was able to travel through the region without any fear and received warm support from local residents .
people of all str ip es welcomed me , and were often willing to take me to important buddhist sites .
today , little over a decade later , the atmosphere is so poisoned that neither local community leaders nor the local police came forward to protect these monuments or claim them as their own .
even sadd er is that while pakistani newspapers widely condemned these attacks and criticized local officials ’ indifference , there has been almost no coverage in the international press .
can it be that after the iraq war , and the dis ma ying images of loo ting at the national museum in baghdad , we have lost our capacity to be outraged ?
there is a vast number of important buddhist sites in sw at and other areas of northwest pakistan .
at this point , all of them are under threat of destruction , thanks to the influential voice of the islamist leader mul lah fa z l ul lah , whose fa ther -in- law , su fi mohammad , founded one of the extremist orders .
this order was responsible for bringing more than 10,000 jihadi fighters to afghanistan to fight alongside taliban soldiers against the united states in 2001 .
while mohammad is believed to be langu ishing in a regional jail , mul lah fa z l ul lah operates with impunity , using the radio to spread a message of hatred and intolerance .
it is time that the world community not only regist ers its outrage against such destruction of cultural treas ures , but also jo ins those pakistanis who are desperately trying to pressure their government to preserve – for their sake and ours – their pre- islamic cultural heritage .
if the world does not act this time , we risk losing one of the most precious legacies of early buddhist history .
another failed british experiment
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world .
in the 1970 ’ s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed .
that model had been based politically on the creation of consensus , and economically on keynesian demand management .
today , the equivalent collapse has been of the “ regul ation- l ite ” regime in which a party that sty led itself as “ new labour ” accepted a powerful role for markets – particularly for largely dereg ulated financial markets .
in the 1960 ’ s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone was benefiting , with high levels of employment and significant wage growth . britain was the cool est place on earth , bo asting the beat les and the rolling stones and the past el fash ions of carn ab y street .
but keynes ianism involved continued fiscal expansion , with no offsetting monetary contraction .
by the 1970 ’ s , it had brought to the united kingdom large and ultimately unsustainable current-account deficits , high levels of inflation , and then political gridlock over what to do .
which group should be the first to make a sacrifice ?
in early 1974 , edward he ath ’ s conservative government was locked in a struggle with the powerful coal min ers ’ union over “ who rules britain . ”
he called a premature election in february , in which there was no clear winner .
he ath was deeply unpopular .
but the opposition labour party was not convincing either , and had little in the way of an intellectual alternative .
it simply sought to avoid confrontation with the unions .
the election produced a political stalemate .
the centrist liberal democrats appeared to hold the balance of power , and stories circul ated of how he ath was prepared to concede a reformed voting system . he held out the promise of proportional representation , which would ensure a greater number of parliamentary seats for the liberal democrats in future elections , in exchange for the party ’ s support for a new conservative government .
there appears to be an overwhelming likelihood that the 1974 stalemate will be repeated in the upcoming general election on may 6 .
the political maneu vering has already started , with the unpopular incumbent prime minister , gordon brown , today ’ s equivalent of he ath , bidding for the liberal democrats ’ support by promising a constitutional reform that would give the party major advantages .
in 1974 , the touted conserv ative- liberal democrat coalition never materialized , as the liberal democrats were wary of hit ching their fortunes to an unpopular and discredited politician .
the result was a minority government that struggled for support and legitimacy , and in the end offered only policies that provided no real answer to the country ’ s underlying problems .
britain today resembles 1974 much more than it resembles 1979 , when the thatcher revolution set the country on a new path .
there is again a major economic problem , the end of a credit- driven boom , and a threat to the banks ( except that it all looks much bigger , owing to the financial system ’ s massive growth and internationalization ) .
both major political parties look tired , and at the same time as if they are competing to im itate each other .
there is also an ominous resem blance to italy in 1992 , when both major parties of the previous 40 years , the christian democrats and the communists , simply mel ted away in a mixture of corruption and intellectual failure .
in the 2000 ’ s boom , as in the 1960 ’ s , it looked as if everyone could live on the never- never .
in 1960 ’ s , it was counter-cyclical fiscal policy that held out the promise of prosperity for all ; in the 2000 ’ s , it was that individuals rather than the state piled up debt .
the magic of markets made possible an individu alization of borrowing and consumption .
as in the meltdown of the 1970 ’ s , it is easy to see how everyone benefited from the recent boom : homeowners saw their houses rising in price , social-welfare payments were expanded , and people seemed swept up in a new wave of 1960 ’ s- style “ cool brit ann ia . ”
but now , as then , britain ’ s future is bleak and overshad owed by debt .
major adjustments are needed .
at the same time , the main parties find it hard to address the country ’ s problems , because they are reluctant to call for sacrifice before an election .
and , because the party programs of the labour government and the conservative opposition are not clearly distingu ishable , they find it hard to differenti ate themselves from the liberal democrats .
both major parties are appealing to the political center , but they will never be as convincing as a political party that really is in the political center , and that is un enc um bered by the scandals attached to the past exercise of power .
the course of the electoral struggle so far indicates that the liberal democrats will do very well .
their leader out sh ines his conservative and labour counterparts in television debates and on the campaign trail .
moreover , labour and the conservatives are in a political trap .
the moment they start to disagree with the liberal democrats , they will make themselves look extreme and will for fe it voter sympath ies .
but this demand for political moderation impedes the search for the radical and painful solutions that britain needs .
little wonder , then , that currency markets are treating the likely outcome in britain – a hun g parliament , with no clear majority for any party – as a repeat of the mid- 1970 ’ s , with no clear solution to the country ’ s underlying economic problems on offer .
another rol ler coast er ride for exchange rates in 2009 ?
cambridge – 2008 has been an exceptionally tumultuous year for exchange rates .
the american dollar soared , the japanese yen went into orbit , the euro fell to earth , and the british pound crashed , leaving a giant cr ater .
emerging-market currencies were ham m ered , as were “ commodity currencies ” such as the canadian , australian , and new zealand dollars , and the south african rand .
indeed , the currency of any country that is significantly dependent on commodity exports has suffered .
so , what will the new year bring for exchange rates ?
while the only safe bet is continuing high volatility , we are at an unusual juncture where the short- and long-term trends appear to be very different .
in the short run , the yen and the dollar continue to benefit from a flight to safety , as panicked investors seek a place to hide .
the yen and dollar are also being bolstered as central banks elsewhere continue to cut interest rates towards zero , territory that the yen and dollar policy rates already occupy .
thus , even though the united states and japan will not be raising interest rates anytime soon , lower foreign rates still make the dollar and yen relatively more attractive .
commodity prices will continue to be soft , pulling down commodity currencies , and bolstering the yen especially , since resource- poor japan is so reliant on commodity imports .
normally , short-run and long-run exchange-rate trends point in the same direction .
indeed , a huge body of research shows that for most major currencies , the best forecast of next week ’ s exchange rate , next month ’ s exchange rate , or even next year ’ s exchange rate is simply today ’ s exchange rate .
the continuing financial crisis is putting steady upward pressure on the dollar thanks to its safe haven status .
commodity prices are pl umb ing new depths .
yet the financial crisis will eventually end , as will the global recession .
neither will end soon , mind you , perhaps not for another seven or eight months , if not longer .
but , when more normal growth does resume , the recent trends underpinning dollar and yen appreciation will disappear .
perhaps international investors will be grateful to the us for its aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus , which will accelerate sharply when president-elect barack obama takes office on january 20 .
but investors will still worry about what happens when the bills come due .
many emerging markets will also want to engage in countercyclical macroeconomic policy , but they are h em med in by concerns of fiscal sustainability and fear of rampant inflation .
european fiscal policy is constrained by the maastricht treaty , while european monetary policy is rather single- min de dly devoted to price stabil it y . amp n b sp ;
true , china , with its vast foreign exchange reserves , has the where with al to spend as much on countercyclical macroeconomic policy as anyone .
but china ’ s rulers know that their highly repressed banking system is vulnerable as the country continues to pursue gradual financial liberalization , and that foreign currency reserves may be needed for recapitalization .
thus perhaps no region will be as expansionary as the us .
for the moment , global investors can not get enough of us treasury bills , as collapsing interest rates for short-term us securities demonstrates .
but a lot of this demand is driven by short-term , crisis- fueled fear .
as markets normalize , surely investors will look around and realize that the us has vastly increased its debt in fighting the downturn , possibly by several trillion dollars .
at the same time , today ’ s falling prices ( or “ deflation ” ) will eventually mor ph into inflation as aggressive monetary easing takes its toll on price stability .
admittedly , some of the major currency ’ s movements during the past year can be regarded as norm alizing .
on a purchasing power basis ( a crude measure of what different currencies can buy in terms of real goods ) , the euro was absur dly overvalued at $ 1. 60 , just as the yen was absur dly undervalued at over ¥ 120 to the dollar .
commodity currencies had to come off their me te or ic highs .
thus , the past year ’ s currency al ign ments have , to some extent , simply brought relative domestic price levels and exchange rates into better balance .
but by now , emerging-market countries ’ exchange rates , and even more so commodity currencies , have probably over shot on the down si de . amp n b sp ;
over the long run , globalization and economic convergence will resume , and emerging market and commodity currencies will have to strengthen .
at the same time , the prospect of higher us inflation and massively higher us public debt levels must eventually weigh on the dollar , as does the still worrisome us trade deficit .
as for the yen , it , too , will suffer from the continuing rise in japan ’ s public debt levels , which are already among the highest in the world .
continuing weakness in the japanese economy will eventually hit the yen .
if today ’ s const ellation of exchange rates represents some excessive dollar and yen appreciation , especially against emerging-market currencies , when it will un wind ?
that depends on when you think the financial crisis will ab ate , and the timing of that is as hard to predict as exchange rates .
but come it will .
then watch for the dollar and yen to bo omer ang .
new york – we know quite a bit about iran ’ s nuclear program , and what we know is not encouraging .
iran is reported to be enriching uranium at two sites – some of it to levels of 20 % , far beyond what is required for civilian purposes .
the international atomic energy agency also reports that iran is carrying out research to develop designs for nuclear warheads .
in short , iranian officials ’ claims that their nuclear program is aimed solely at power generation or medical research lacks all plau sibility .
yet there is still much that the world does not know .
for example , we do not know whether iran is conducting secret activities at undis closed sites , or when iran could develop a crude nuclear weapon , with estimates ranging from several months to several years .
we also do not know whether iran ’ s divided leadership has decided to develop nuclear weapons , or to stop just short , calculating that the country could derive many of the benefits of possessing nuclear weapons without running the risks or in curr ing the costs of actually doing so .
either way , iran ’ s activities confront the world with difficult choices .
none is cost less or risk-free .
moreover , neither the costs nor the risks are possible to calculate with precision .
one option would be to accept and live with a nuclear or near- nuclear iran .
this assumes that iran could be deterred from using its weapons , much as the soviet union was during the cold war .
missile defenses could be expanded ; the united states could extend security guarantees so that iran would understand that the threat or use of nuclear weapons would be met with a decisive american response .
but there are significant draw backs to acquies cing to a nuclear-armed iran .
given its use of sub version and terrorism against its adversaries , a nuclear-armed iran might be even more assertive .
it might also transfer nuclear- related material , technology , or weapons to allies ( hugo chávez ’ s venezuela , for example ) or radical organizations such as hezbollah and hamas .
and , rather than promoting caution and stability in the region , iran or israel could be tempted to strike first in a crisis .
nor can it be assumed that iran ’ s divided and radical leadership would always act rationally , or that proliferation would stop with the islamic republic .
if iran develops its nuclear weapons , countries such as saudi arabia , turkey , and egypt would be tempted to purchase or develop nuclear weapons of their own .
a middle east with multiple fingers on multiple triggers is as good a definition of a nightmare as there is .
at the opposite end of the spectrum of policy choices is a preventive attack : a military strike ( most likely by israel , the us , or both ) against sites in iran associated with its nuclear program .
the core objective would be to interrup t the emergence of a threat that is still gathering .
here , again , there are considerable draw backs .
even a successful preventive attack would at most set back iran ’ s nuclear program a few years .
it would almost certainly be rebuilt , presumably in underground , forti fied sites that would make future attacks far more difficult to carry out .
moreover , iran could well retaliate immediately against targets that could include saudi arabia , iraq , afghanistan , and other us interests worldwide – as well as sites on american territory .
hezbollah could attack israel .
if all of this happened , the price of oil would sky rocket owing to shortages and fears , possibly driving much of the world economy , already in a precarious position , into recession .
an armed attack could also cause the iranian public to rally around the government , reducing the chances that a more responsible leadership might emerge .
but , however desirable that might be , no policy can assu re dly bring it about .
as a result , the principal policy toward iran centers on the imposition of increasingly painful economic sanctions .
the rationale underlying this policy is that iran ’ s leaders , fearful of losing political control as popular discontent increases over the sanctions ’ effects , will recal cul ate the costs and benefits of their nuclear activities and become rec eptive to negotiated constraints in exchange for removal of sanctions .
that could happen .
international support for sanctions is considerable and increasing .
it is becoming more difficult for iran ( whose economy depends to a large extent on oil exports of more than two million barrels a day ) to find customers – and especially customers willing to pay full price .
meanwhile , iran ’ s currency is weakening , pricing imported goods out of many iranians ’ reach .
additional elements of current policy that seem to be having an effect are cl an dest ine efforts aimed at impeding iran ’ s ability to import sensitive technologies .
viruses have infiltr ated computers in iran , reducing the efficiency of the centrifu ges central to enriching uranium .
it is also possible that the assassination of selected individuals has slowed the advance of iranian nuclear efforts .
but slowing iran ’ s efforts is not the same as stopping them .
so one question is whether existing sanctions can be extended and tightened ; here , china and russia must determine their priorities .
another question is whether any sanctions will be enough to persuade iran ’ s leaders to accept verifiable limits on their nuclear program .
and a third unsettled issue is how long israel or the us will tolerate iranian efforts before striking militarily .
indeed , the only certainty may be that iran ’ s nuclear program will be a major international issue in 2012 – quite possibly the most important one .
the new natural world
york – six ty- six million years ago , a cel esti al body crashed into the earth and wiped out the din os a urs .
with that , there was space for the rise of mam m als and , eventually , the evolution of a tool - wielding , lingu istically capable , bi ped al ap e with the power , some argue , to have almost as transformative an impact on the planet as that cel esti al body .
as we enter the so-called anthropo cene epo ch , in which human activity is a dominant influence on the climate and environment , we must take a hard – and nuanced – look at how we are using that power .
many believe the world is becoming increasingly “ un natural ” – tainted by humanity .
but , given that humans evolved within the world ’ s biological system , everything we do – killing off species , ra zing forests , polluting the atmosphere – can be regarded as a natural product of the evolutionary process .
by this logic , the world does not become any less natural as we change it .
it could be argued that environmentalists and conserv ation ists , in their efforts to return the environment to a past version of itself , are fighting against nature .
the reality of today ’ s world is that it is impossible to separate completely the human from the non- human influences on biological communities .
throughout the history of life on earth , ecological and evolutionary processes have been the means by which the biological world survives environmental change .
instead of automatically resisting such change , therefore , environmentalists and conserv ation ists should distinguish between “ good change ” and “ bad change . ”
the challenge is to define good and bad .
most people would agree that the complete extinction of a species is a bad thing .
yet , when it comes to the decline of some species ( say , disease- susceptible island birds ) , we may choose not to intervene , not least because , realistically , it would be hard to resist their replacement by evolu tion arily “ superior ” models ( such as pathog en- resistant birds ) .
nonetheless , conserv ing as many species as possible makes sense .
since the descendants of today ’ s living species will go on to comprise all future ecosystems – formed when humans or planetary processes generate novel conditions – there is a clear advantage to having more kinds of them .
indeed , more species function as “ spare parts ” for the environment , and conservation amounts to a kind of long-term environmental insurance policy .
more contentious is the transportation of species to new ecosystems .
gar den ers may love to plant ex otic species in their back y ards , but communities often treat the “ foreign ” plants that begin to grow in the countryside as invasive – a dangerous departure from the past .
sometimes , those plants are d oused in her bic ides , usually to no av ail .
so strong is the resistance to such changes that the united kingdom wa its about 1,000 years before it regards a species , like the rabb it , as native .
in australia , there is a debate over whether the d ing o – introduced thousands of years ago – should be counted as indigenous .
yet , so far , the roughly 2,000 non- native plant and animal species in the uk have not directly caused any native species to become extinc t , with most causing little or no harm at all .
in fact , the import ation and spread of immigrant species has increased biological diversity in most regions of the world in the last few centuries .
these regional increases – including a 20 % rise in the number of plant species growing wild in european countries and the united states , and a doubling of plant species in the hawa i ian arch ip el ago and other pacific islands – could be interpreted as a positive development .
given this – and the im practic ality of trying to repatri ate most foreign species – newcomers should be accepted more or less immediately .
that certainly makes more sense than engaging in millen ni a- long debates about them , in the name of some ide alized past version of the natural world .
there is no going back , because entirely new species continually come into existence , particularly through the hybr idi zation of trans ported species .
more new hybrid plants – such as cord grass and mon key flow ers – have evolved in the uk in the last three centuries than have gone extinc t throughout europe over the same period ( according to existing records ) .
the situation is similar in north america .
this evolution of new human- associated species means that , in the anthropo cene , we are effectively creators of new biological diversity as well as destro yers of the old .
we no longer merely depend on the planet ; we are now also shaping it .
recognizing that , we should certainly resist changes that are unequivocally “ bad . ”
but when it comes to biological changes that will enable species to adjust to environmental changes – the process by which species have always survived – we should take a more accepting and even pro- active approach .
as i argue in my recent book inher itors of the earth : how nature is thriving in an age of extinction , we are living in a “ new natural world . ”
it is still driven by the same ecological and evolutionary dynamism as always .
the difference is that that dynamism is now fueled largely by the activities of a human population of 7.6 billion ( and rising ) .
species will move into new human- created environments and evolve alongside us .
we should let them .
maybe we should even help them .
agriculture ’ s bad medicine
san di ego – most of us are oblivious to the threats caused by our actions when those threats are invisible .
our use of antibiotics is a case in point .
but the therapeutic power of antibiotics is being squandered by their im prudent use in agriculture .
today , more than half of the antibiotics administered around the world are used in the production of food .
farmers use antimic ro bi als to treat infections in their livestock .
the problem is that they commonly misuse antibiotics either to compensate for poor agricultural practices – such as over crowding on factory farms , which encourages the spread of disease – or to accelerate growth and reduce production costs .
these practices may appear harm less in isolation , but their aggregate effect is dangerous .
as antibiotics enter the environment through the food people eat or the waste animals produce , antimicrobial resistance intensi fies .
and this affects human health in troubling ways .
every day , at hospitals and clinics around the world , patients are given antibiotics for bacter ial infections like tuberculosis , gon or rhe a , or pneumonia .
others receive antibiotics proph yl ac tically , to prevent bacter ial infections during surgery , or when underlying conditions or treatments ( such as chemotherapy ) compromise their immunity .
unfortunately , many widely used antibiotics are losing their ability to protect patients and treat disease ; routine misuse of antibiotics in farming is a key reason why .
not long after the scottish micro bi ologist alexander flem ing discovered a fun gus that could kill bacteria , he recognized that over use of antibiotics would encourage resistance .
as he warned in 1945 , “ the though tless person playing with pen ic ill in is morally responsible for the death of the man who finally succumb s to infection with the pen ic ill in- resistant organism . ”
widespread misuse of antibiotics in agriculture is one of the most egregious forms of “ playing with pen ic ill in . ”
in 2015 , a new antibio tic- resistant bacter ium was discovered in chinese pigs , and then in chinese patients .
since then , two more variants of the bacter ium have been discovered , and the genes that enable these bacteria to resist antibiotics and jump between species – so-called “ mobile genetic elements ” – have been found on farms and in hospitals around the world .
if the reckless use of antibiotics in agriculture continues , the impact on people will be severe .
fortunately , there is a solution .
more than a decade ago , the european union banned antibiotics in agriculture for any purpose other than treating infections .
and , although the rule is not perfect , it has helped lower antibiotic use .
in denmark , for example , total antibiotic use by pi g farmers has decreased , despite a slight increase in antibiotics administered for treating por c ine diseases .
these gains , however modest , are encouraging – and should encourage further – coordinated action .
because of the global nature of the threat , only multilateral cooperation – in the form of a new treaty or trade agreements – can ensure that farmers everywhere abide by minimal standards for raising livestock without the unnecessary use of antibiotics .
in december 2015 , a study commissioned by the british government and chaired by the economist jim o ’ ne ill found that the most effective means of changing behaviors would be to cap the use of antibiotics , but allow individual countries to experiment with taxes or restrictions to meet the cap .
moreover , as i have argued elsewhere , farmers should be required to obtain a prescription before administ ering medicine to livestock .
although the eu ’ s ban includes such a provision , wa i vers and exemptions have wat ered down the rule .
if a global consensus were reached – for example , through the g20 or the united nations general assembly – countries choosing to tax agricultural antibiotics could use the revenue to help ease the transition to alternative farming practices .
money could also go to fund research on in vit ro meat , which would dramatically reduce animal suffering and lower the burden of infectious diseases .
most important , any new treaty must provide signatories with flexibility to meet the diverse needs of their farmers .
the goal of global action should be to incenti v ize farmers to reduce their antibiotic use , not to me te out punishment .
although the world is a long way from that goal , consumer- driven practices in the united states and regulations in europe have demonstrated that farmers will change their approach if encouraged or required to do so .
still , most of us remain blind to the unintended consequences of our decisions .
unless people voluntarily refrain from consuming factor y- farm ed meat , we will need governments and multilateral organizations to keep us on the right path .
antibiotics that work
mexico city – from the discovery of pen ic ill in in 19 28 to the introduction of the last of the main groups of antibiotics in the 1960s , humanity ’ s capacity to fight path ogen ic bacteria has been transformative .
but , over time , the number of antibiotics to which bacteria are susceptible has been dwindling , and some pathogens have become resistant to most or all existing drugs .
as a result , once- treatable infections are becoming deadly again .
already , antibiotic resistance is leading to an estimated 700,000 deaths per year , with financial costs reaching tens of billions of dollars .
as antibiotic resistance continues to undermine our ability to treat cancers , trans plant organs , and impl ant pros thesis , these figures will only rise .
many factors have contributed to rising antibiotic resistance .
bacteria can re produce and mut ate rapidly , and they can establish something of a “ genetic internet ” that enables certain path ogen ic bacteria to “ down load ” antibio tic- resistant genes .
moreover , most antibiotics are natural products of soil bacteria , in which antibiotic resistance can occur naturally .
when human- made antibiotics were introduced on a massive scale , the bacteria with resistance became the most prevalent .
today , humans release about 100,000 tons of antibiotics per year .
if those antibiotics were being used properly and saving lives , a reasonable cost-benefit analysis might be possible .
but about 70 % of them are used to make farm animals to grow a bit faster .
the other 30 % , while used to treat people , are often prescribed in correctly or need lessly .
and , because a substantial share of the used drugs are released into the environment with waste water and man ure , bacter ial communities in soils , waters , and wildlife are also exposed .
if this abuse of antibiotics does not end , we will soon find ourselves without drugs to treat bacter ial infections effectively .
but while some steps are being taken – a high-level united nations meeting last september produced proposals for some international measures – they are far from adequate .
what is really needed is an immediate worldwide ban on the agricultural use of antibiotics .
moreover , guidelines for the clinical use of antibiotics , which the medical community now follows as closely as those concerning how to pick a nec k tie , must be reviewed and strongly enforced .
these two measures alone – both of which could be enacted by governmental regulatory agencies – would reduce the use of antibiotics by nearly 80 % , slowing the rise of antibiotic resistance substantially .
of course , getting governments to implement such measures will not be easy , because they run counter to powerful economic interests , the most obvious being the pharmaceutical industry , which sells $ 40 billion worth of antibiotics each year .
while big pharm a has a strong interest in continued antibiotic abuse , it has little interest in developing new antibiotics to tackle drug-resistant bacteria .
drugs for chronic illnesses and cancer are better for their bottom line .
so big pharm a is seeking “ incentives ” to pursue research and development of new antibiotics , such as extended patents or tax breaks ; the alternative would be to charge astronom ical prices for new drugs .
but the benefits of such incentives for pharmaceutical companies would far exceed the cost of the actual r & d pursued ; they would be instruments to fun nel public funds into private hands – the very hands that caused the problem .
beyond all of these car rots , however , societies should consider using some sticks .
i call it nan bu ( no antibiotics , no business ) .
nan bu would grant points to companies with vigorous research programs or with new antibiotics in the development pipeline .
companies that do not manufacture or sell antibiotics for agricultural purposes , or that refuse to promote the use of antibiotics for diseases that do not require such drugs , would gain points as well .
those that engaged in the opposite behaviors – selling antibiotics as livestock “ growth promo ters ” or actively encouraging physicians to prescr ibe the drugs – would lose points .
at first , virtually all drug companies would have negative scores .
but , over time , the ratings could be adjusted , always according to scientif ically sound advice from an independent group of experts .
the ratings could then be used to guide drug- purchasing decisions .
for many kinds of relevant drugs , there are several options with similar efficacy and safety , produced by different companies .
so clin icians could prescr ibe drugs mostly from highly rated companies , and avoid drugs from companies with low ratings .
patients could encourage such decision-making , and follow suit when purchasing over- the- counter drugs .
over time , antibiotics could become more profitable again , as engaged companies sell more of their other drugs and the need for costly incentives diminishes .
the key to nan bu ’ s success will be to ensure widespread understanding of the antibio tic- resistance threat and what is needed to combat it .
this would give patients and doctors the impetus to regard nan bu ratings in making drug decisions , as well as to pressure their governments to take even stronger action .
the use of a public awareness campaign to intensify pressure on governments to pursue necessary but difficult measures has worked before – for example , in advancing forest and fish ery sustainability .
public awareness was among the priorities highlighted at the un meeting .
to carry out that global effort , however , we need a new global institution that really is up to the task .
nan bu , as an international ngo , would be able to cope with the transnational nature of most drug companies , while being protected from national- level lobbying or political pressure .
antibio tic- resistant bacteria represent a global threat , and therefore can not be addressed with national measures alone .
the world must think and act together to preserve the huge gains to human health and wellbeing that antibiotics have enabled .
a fair fight against antimicrobial resistance
brigh ton – existing anti- mic robial drugs are becoming ineffective .
if current trends continue , we could end up reli ving conditions before the discovery of antibiotics , when infectious diseases were major killers .
meeting the challenge of drug-resistant mic robes will be difficult . it will require not only major investments in research and development of new anti- mic robial drugs , but also a system to control and restrict new treatments , in order to preserve their efficacy .
as with the response to climate change , an effective strategy will require international coordination .
in particular , the needs of pharmaceutical companies must be reconciled with those of government pay ers and the global poor .
indeed , engaging the poor will be crucial to any effort .
low- and middle-income countries are an important source of drug-resistant organisms .
crowded housing , poor sanitation , and compromised immune systems , whether owing to malnutrition or chronic infections such as hiv , provide fertile ground for contagion .
antibiotics are often mis used or low- quality , providing bacteria the opportunity to develop resistance .
meanwhile , greatly improved transportation infrastructure – between rural and urban areas and between countries – means that resistant genes quickly become part of a global pool .
in many vulnerable countries , the government health-care system can not meet demand , and a variety of providers are attempting to bridge the gap . these range from medical specialists to informal providers , who work largely outside the regulatory framework .
these patch work systems do have benefits .
a recent study in bangladesh , for example , concluded that antibiotics provided by so-called “ village doctors , ” often operating from market st alls , contributed to declines in mortality from post- nat al se p s is and childhood pneumonia .
but there is also considerable evidence that the drugs being provided are of varying quality and are frequently taken unnecessarily .
too often , patients do not purchase a full course of treatment .
one response could be to enact and enforce laws that make antibiotics available only on a doctor ’ s prescription .
however , this could end up severely limiting poor people ’ s access to antibiotics , leading to higher death rates from infections , making it politically unacceptable and thus difficult to enforce .
a better alternative would be to develop new strategies to improve antibiotic treatments that are provided through informal channels .
for starters , investment is needed to generate reliable surveillance data on the drugs that are effective against common infections .
treatment guidelines must incorporate this information and be given to all providers of antibiotics .
meanwhile , high-quality antibiotics must be made available at affordable prices .
counter fe it products must be identified and removed from the marketplace , and a regulatory partnership between governments , the pharmaceutical sector , and citizens ’ groups must be developed to control for quality .
prices must be kept low through bulk procurement ; in some cases , public subsidies may be necessary .
measures to reduce prices will need to be complem ented by efforts to discourage over use .
innovations in packaging , perhaps providing full courses of appropriate comb inations of drugs , could simplify treatment decisions .
likewise , development of low-cost diagnostic technologies could help diminish the need to provide treatment on the basis of symptoms alone .
the biggest challenge will be to encourage providers of antibiotics to change their behavior .
this will require measures such as ac credit ation , modification of payment mechanisms , and the involvement of intermedi ary organizations to give technical support and monitor performance .
these organizations could include ngos , religious organizations , social entrepreneurs , and companies that distribute drugs .
these activities are unlikely to be commercially sustainable , and thus will require support from governments , philanthrop ies , and perhaps drug producers .
in the meantime , the public must receive reliable information and advice on the proper use of antibiotics .
this is particularly important where citizens rely largely on their own resources to cope with health problems .
implementing a system -wide change in the use of antibiotics will require the creation of national and global coalitions .
one core aim must be to establish basic standards of conduct for health workers and drug companies that reflect the needs of patients and communities .
governments will need to build their capacity to play an effective role in this process , and companies that develop , produce , and distribute drugs and diagnostic technologies will have to contribute actively to the search for collaborative solutions .
only if we manage anti ob i o tics in a fair and sustainable way will we be able to benefit from them at all .
the anti-democratic heart of populism
santiago – many of the men and women who turned out for the annual meeting of the international monetary fund in early october were saying something like this : “ imagine if the republicans had nominated someone with the same anti- trade views as trump , minus the insul ts and the sexual harassment .
the underlying view is that rising populism on the right and the left , both in the united states and in europe , is a straightforward consequence of globalization and its unwanted effects : lost jobs and stagnant middle-class incomes .
davos men and women hate this conclusion , but they have embraced it with all the ferv or of new conver ts .
yet there is an alternative – and more persuasive – view : while economic stagnation helps push upset voters into the populist camp , bad economics is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for bad politics .
on the contrary , argues princeton political scientist j an- wer ner mueller in his new book : populism is a “ permanent shadow ” on representative democracy .
populism is not about taxation ( or jobs or income inequality ) .
it is about representation – who gets to speak for the people and how .
advocates of democracy make some ex al ted claims on its behalf .
as abraham lincoln put it at ge tt ys burg , it is “ government of the people , by the people , for the people . ”
but modern representative democracy – or any democracy , for that matter – inevitably falls short of these claims .
voting in an election every four years for candidates chosen by party machines is not exactly what lincoln ’ s lofty words call to mind .
what populists offer , mueller says , is to fulfill what the italian democratic theorist nor berto bo b bi o calls the broken promises of democracy .
populists speak and act , claims mueller , “ as if the people could develop a sing ular judgment , ... as if the people were one , ... as if the people , if only they empowered the right representatives , could fully master their f ates . ”
populism rests on a toxic tri ad : denial of complexity , anti- pluralism , and a c roo ked version of representation .
most of us believe that social choices ( build more schools or hospitals ?
stimulate or discourage international trade ?
liberalize or restrict abortion ? ) are complex , and that the existence of a plurality of views about what to do is both natural and legitimate . populists deny this .
as r al f da hr endor f once put it , populism is simple ; democracy is complex . to populists , there is only one right view – that of the people .
if so , the complex mechanisms of liberal democracy , with its emphasis on delegation and representation , are all unnecessary .
no need for parliaments end lessly debating : the un itary will of the people can easily be expressed in a single vote .
hence populists ’ love affair with plebis cites and referenda .
brexit , anyone ?
and not just anyone can represent the people .
the claim is to exclusive representation .
remember trump ’ s boast in his address to the republican national convention : “ i alone can fix it . ”
politics is always about morality , arist o tle told us .
but populists favor what mueller calls a particular mor alistic interpretation of politics .
those who hold the right view about the world are moral ; the rest are immoral , lac keys of a corrupt elite .
that was exactly the rhetoric of the late venezuelan ruler hugo chávez .
when that failed , and when chávez ’ s san k his country ’ s economy , there was always us imperialism to blame .
it is always us against them .
viewed in this light , populism is not a useful correc tive to a democracy captured by technocrats and elites , as marine le pen , ra fa el correa , recep tayyip erdoğan , or ass or ted western intellectuals want you to believe .
on the contrary , it is profoundly anti-democratic , and hence a threat to democracy itself .
what is to be done ?
my take ( the prescription is my own , not mueller ’ s ) is that democrats must ( and can ) beat populists at their own game .
the toxic tri ad can become sal u tary .
first , acknowledge complexity .
the only thing that up sets voters as much as being lied to is being treated like babies .
people who lead challenging lives know that the world is complex .
they do not mind being told that .
they appreciate being spoken to as the grow n ups they are .
second , do not treat diversity of views and identities as a problem calling for a technocratic solution .
rather , make respect for such diversity a profoundly moral feature of society .
the fact that we are not all the same and we can still get along is a tremendous democratic achievement .
make the case for it .
and do not fall for the tired clich é that reason is for democrats and emotion is for populists .
make the case for pluralistic democracy in a way that inspires and stir s emotion .
third , defend – and update – representation .
leave delegation to complex technical matters .
take advantage of modern technologies to bring other choices – particularly those having to do with the fabric of daily life – closer to voters .
tighten campaign finance laws , regulate lobbying better , and enforce affirm ative- action measures to ensure that representatives are of the people and work for the people .
these measures alone will not ensure that all of democracy ’ s broken promises are fulfilled .
but we can not expect a single set of simple actions to solve a complex problem .
nor can we believe that we alone can fix it .
if we believed that , we would be populists .
for the sake of democracy , that is precisely what we should not be .
the abdic ation of the left
ron da , spain – as the world re els from the brexit shock , it is daw ning on economists and policymakers that they severely underestimated the political fragility of the current form of globalization .
the popular revolt that appears to be underway is taking diverse , overlapping forms : reasser tion of local and national identities , demand for greater democratic control and accountability , rejection of centrist political parties , and distrust of elites and experts .
some economists , including me , did warn about the consequences of pushing economic globalization beyond the boundaries of institutions that regulate , stabilize , and legitimize markets .
hyper- globalization in trade and finance , intended to create seam lessly integrated world markets , tor e domestic societies apart .
the bigger surprise is the decidedly right-wing tilt the political reaction has taken .
in europe , it is predominantly nationalists and nativist populists that have risen to prominence , with the left advancing only in a few places such as greece and spain .
in the united states , the right-wing dem agogue donald trump has managed to displace the republican establishment , while the leftist bernie sanders was unable to overtake the centrist hillary clinton .
as an emerging new establishment consensus grudg ingly conc edes , globalization accent u ates class divisions between those who have the skills and resources to take advantage of global markets and those who don ’ t .
income and class cleav ages , in contrast to identity cleav ages based on race , ethnicity , or religion , have traditionally strengthened the political left .
so why has the left been unable to mount a significant political challenge to globalization ?
one answer is that immigration has overshad owed other globalization “ shocks . ”
the perceived threat of mass inflows of migrants and refugees from poor countries with very different cultural traditions aggrav ates identity cleav ages that far-right politicians are exceptionally well placed to exploit .
so it is not a surprise that righ ti st politicians from trump to marine le pen l ace their message of national reasser tion with a rich dose of anti-muslim symbolism .
latin american democracies provide a telling contrast .
these countries experienced globalization mostly as a trade and foreign- investment shock , rather than as an immigration shock .
globalization became synonymous with so-called washington consensus policies and financial opening .
immigration from the middle east or africa remained limited and had little political sal i ence .
so the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastr ously , venezuela – took a left-wing form .
the story is similar in the main two exceptions to right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain .
in greece , the main political fault line has been austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund .
in spain , most immigrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries .
in both countries , the far right lacked the breeding ground it had elsewhere .
but the experience in latin america and southern europe reveals perhaps a greater weakness of the left : the absence of a clear program to ref ash ion capitalism and globalization for the twenty-first century .
from greece ’ s syriza to brazil ’ s workers ’ party , the left has failed to come up with ideas that are economically sound and politically popular , beyond amelior ative policies such as income transfers .
economists and technocrats on the left bear a large part of the blame .
instead of contributing to such a program , they abdic ated too easily to market fundamentalism and bought in to its central tenets .
worse still , they led the hyper- globalization movement at crucial junc tures .
the en thr oning of free capital mobility – especially of the short-term kind – as a policy norm by the european union , the organization for economic cooperation and development , and the imf was arguably the most fateful decision for the global economy in recent decades .
as harvard business school professor ra wi  ab del al has shown , this effort was spearheaded in the late 1980s and early 1990s not by free-market ideologues , but by french technocrats such as jacques del ors ( at the european commission ) and hen ri chav rans ki ( at the oecd ) , who were closely associated with the socialist party in france .
similarly , in the us , it was technocrats associated with the more keynesian democratic party , such as lawrence summers , who led the charge for financial deregulation .
france ’ s socialist technocrats appear to have concluded from the failed mitterrand experiment with keynes ianism in the early 1980s that domestic economic management was no longer possible , and that there was no real alternative to financial globalization .
the good news is that the intellectual vacuum on the left is being filled , and there is no longer any reason to believe in the tyranny of “ no alternatives . ”
politicians on the left have less and less reason not to draw on “ respectable ” academic firepower in economics .
consider just a few examples : an at adm ati and sim on johnson have advocated radical banking reforms ; thomas piketty and tony at kinson have proposed a rich menu of policies to deal with inequality at the national level ; mari ana ma zz uc ato and ha - jo on chan g have written in sigh t fully on how to deploy the public sector to foster inclusive innovation ; joseph stiglitz and josé anton io oc amp o have proposed global reforms ; bra d del ong , jeffrey sachs , and lawrence summers ( the very same ! ) have argued for long-term public investment in infrastructure and the green economy .
there are enough elements here for building a program matic economic response from the left .
a crucial difference between the right and the left is that the right thr ives on deepening divisions in society – “ us ” versus “ them ” – while the left , when successful , over comes these cleav ages through reforms that bridge them .
hence the paradox that earlier waves of reforms from the left – keynes ianism , social democracy , the welfare state – both saved capitalism from itself and effectively rendered themselves super fl uous .
absent such a response again , the field will be left wide open for populists and far-right groups , who will lead the world – as they always have – to deeper division and more frequent conflict .
the new socialism of fo ols
berkeley – according to mainstream economic theory , globalization tends to “ lift all boats , ” and has little effect on the broad distribution of incomes .
but “ globalization ” is not the same as the elimination of tariffs and other import barriers that conf er rent-seeking advantages to politically influential domestic producers .
as harvard university economist dani rodrik frequently points out , economic theory predicts that removing tariffs and non-tariff barriers does produce net gains ; but it also results in large redistribu tions , where in eliminating smaller barriers yields larger redistribu tions relative to the net gains .
globalization , for our purposes , is different .
it should be understood as a process in which the world becomes increasingly interconnected through technological advances that drive down transportation and communication costs .
to be sure , this form of globalization allows foreign producers to export goods and services to distant markets at a lower cost .
but it also opens up export markets and reduces costs for the other side .
and at the end of the day , consumers get more stuff for less .
according to standard economic theory , redistribution only comes about when a country ’ s exports require vastly different factors of production than its imports .
but there are no such differences in today ’ s global economy .
in the united states , a balance-of-payments surplus in finance means that more americans will be employed as construction workers , capital- goods producers , and nurses and home health aides .
similarly , a surplus in services means that more americans will work not only as highly educated ( and well- remuner ated ) consul tants in ste el- and- glass ey ries , but also as , say , jan itors and house keepers in mot els outside of yel low stone national park .
at the same time , a deficit in manufacturing may create more manufacturing jobs abroad , in countries where labor costs are low relative to capital ; but it destroys relatively few jobs in the us , where manufacturing is already a highly capital-intensive industry .
as stanford university economist robert hall has been pointing out for three decades , more americans are employed selling cars than making them .
the commodities that the us imports from abroad embody a significant amount of relatively unskilled labor , but they do not displace much unskilled labor in america .
so , at least in theory , the shift in us employment from assem bl y- line manufacturing to construction , services , and care taking may have had an impact on the overall distribution of income in terms of gender , but not in terms of class .
why , then , has there been such strong political resistance to globalization in the twenty-first century ?
i see four reasons .
first and foremost , it is easy for politicians to pin the blame for a country ’ s problems on foreigners and immigrants who do not vote .
back in 18 90 , when politicians in the h abs burg empire routinely blamed jews for various socioeconomic ills , the austrian dissident fer din and k ron a wet ter famously observed that “ der anti sem iti sm us ist der so zi al ism us der d um men ker le ” : anti-semitism is the socialism of fo ols .
the same could be said of anti-globalization today .
people want a simple narrative to explain why they are missing out on the prosperity they were once promised , and why there is such a large and growing gap between an increasingly wealthy over class and everyone else .
third , china ’ s economic rise coincided with a period in which the global north was struggling to reach full employment .
contrary to what the followers of friedrich von hayek and andrew m ell on have always claimed , economic read just ments do not happen when bankruptcies force labor and capital out of low-productivity , low- demand industries , but rather when booms pull labor and capital into high- productivity , high- demand industries .
thus , neoliberalism does not just require open and competitive markets , global change , and price stability .
it also depends on full employment and near- permanent booms , just as economist john maynard keynes had warned in the 1920s and 1930s .
in recent decades , the neoliberal order failed to deliver either condition , most likely because doing so would have been impossible even with the best policies in place .
fourth , policymakers did not do enough to compensate for this failure with more aggressive social policies and economic and geographic redistribution .
when us president donald trump recently told up state new yor kers that they should leave the region and seek jobs elsewhere , he was simply echo ing the past generation of center-right politicians in the global north .
the global north ’ s current political and economic dilemmas are not so different from those of the 1920s and 1930s .
as keynes noted then , the key is to produce and maintain full employment , at which point most other problems will mel t away .
and , as the au stro - hungarian economist karl pol any i argued , it is the role of government to secure socioeconomic rights .
people believe that they have a right to live in healthy communities , hold stable occupations , and earn a decent income that rises over time .
but these presumed rights do not stem naturally from property rights and claims to scarce resources – the coins of the neoliberal realm .
it has been ten years since the global financial crisis and the start of the “ great recession ” in the global north .
governments still have not repa ired the damage from those events .
if they do not do so soon , the “ - isms ” of fo ols will continue to wreak havoc in the decades ahead .
immigration and the new class divide
singapore – the british shadow minister for europe , p at mc f add en , recently warned members of his labour party that they should try to make the most of the global economy and not treat immigration like a disease .
as he put it , “ you can feed on people ’ s grievances or you can give people a chance .
and i think our policies should be around giving people a chance . ”
in a world increasingly dominated by grievances – against immigrants , bankers , muslims , “ liberal elites , ” “ euro cr ats , ” cosmopolit ans , or anything else that seems v agu ely alien – such wise words are rare .
leaders worldwide should take note .
in the united states , republicans – backed by their tea party activists – are threatening to close the government down just because president barack obama has offered undocumented immigrants who have lived and worked in the us for many years a chance to gain citizenship .
the united kingdom independence party ( uk ip ) wants to introduce a five-year ban on immigration for permanent settlement .
russia ’ s deputy prime minister , dmit ry rogo z in , once released a video promising to “ clean the rub b ish ” – meaning migrant workers , mostly from former soviet republics – “ away from moscow . ”
even the once famously tolerant dutch and dan es are increasingly voting for parties that ful min ate against the scourge of immigration .
always keen to assert the freedom to insult muslims , the dutch freedom party wants to ban all mosques .
and the tiny and much- har assed opposition parties in singapore – a country where almost everyone is desc ended from immigrants – are gaining traction by appealing to popular gr ip es about immigrants ( mostly from india and china ) who are supposedly taking jobs from “ natives . ”
what can american tea party enthusi asts , russian chauv in ists , fearful dutch and dan es , and singap ore an leftists possibly have in common that is driving this anti-immigrant sentiment ?
but the livelihoods of most of the middle-aged rural white americans who support the tea party are hardly threatened by poor mexican migrants .
uk ip is popular in some parts of england where immigrants are rarely seen .
and many of the dutch freedom party ’ s voters live nowhere near a mosque .
anti-immigrant sentiment cuts across the old left- right divide .
one thing tea party or uk ip supporters share with working-class voters who genuinely fear losing their jobs to low- paid foreigners is anxiety about being left behind in a world of easy mobility , supranational organizations , and global networking .
on the right , support for conservative parties is split between business interests that benefit from immigration or supranational institutions , and groups that feel threatened by them .
that is why the british tories are so afraid of uk ip .
nig el farage , uk ip ’ s leader , is less concerned with economic growth than with pursuing his extreme conception of national independence .
on the left , opinion is split between those who oppose racism and intolerance above all and those who want to protect employment and preserve “ solidarity ” for what is left of the nati ve- born working class .
it would be a mistake to dismiss anxiety about immigration as mere bigotry or apprehension about the globalized economy as simply reactionary .
national , religious , and cultural identities ( for lack of a better word ) are being transformed , though less by immigration than by the development of globalized capitalism .
in the new global economy , there are clear winners and losers .
educated men and women who can communicate effectively in varied international contexts are benefiting .
people who lack the needed education or experience – and there are many of them – are struggling .
in other words , the new class divisions run less between the rich and the poor than between educated metropolitan elites and less sophisticated , less flexible , and , in every sense , less connected provin ci als .
it is irrelevant that the provin ci als ’ political leaders ( and their backers ) are sometimes wealthier than the res ented metropolitan elites .
they still feel looked down upon .
and so they share the bitter ness of those who feel alienated in a world they find be wil dering and hat eful .
populist rabb le- rous ers like to sti r up such resentments by ran ting about foreigners who work for a pit t ance or not at all .
but it is the relative success of ethnic minorities and immigrants that is more up setting to indigenous populations .
this explains the popular hostility toward obama .
americans know that , before too long , whites will be just another minority , and people of color will increasingly be in positions of power .
at this point , all tea parti ers and others like them can do is declare , “ we want our country back ! ”
of course , this is an impossible demand .
short of unleashing massive and bloody ethnic cleansing – bosnia , on a continental scale – americans and others have no choice but to get used to living in increasingly diverse societies .
likewise , economic globalization can not be undone .
but regulation can and should be improved .
after all , some things are still worth protecting .
there are good reasons not to leave culture , education , lifestyles , or jobs completely exposed to the creative destruction of market forces .
the problem is that this call is more likely to appeal to the highly educated , already privileged classes than to those who feel disenfranch ised in today ’ s global economy .
this is a serious problem for political parties on the left , which increasingly seem to be speaking for the metropolitan elites , while provincial populists are pushing traditional conservatives further to the right by fishing in the dark waters of popular resentment .
global cooperation as a life- and- death issue
london – the uncertainty generated by the united kingdom ’ s recent vote to leave the european union – which has sent shoc k waves through global markets – has been dominating headlines .
but , as we prepare to face new political trials , we must not lose sight of the challenges we already face , especially global health challenges like the rise of antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) , which has no regard for economic performance or political stability .
as it stands , an estimated 700,000 people are losing their lives to drug-resistant infections each year .
by 2050 , this figure could sky rocket to ten million per year , at a cumulative cost to world gdp of $ 100 tril lion ..
to avoid that outcome , in may the review on amr that i lead published its strategy for tackling such infections , laying out proposals to ensure the development of the necessary new antibiotics , and to use existing antibiotics more efficiently in humans and agriculture .
of the ten major interventions we proposed , four are particularly important :
· launch a global campaign , tailored for different regions , to improve public awareness of amr .
· address the market failure in the development of new antibiotics by introducing l ump - sum market- entry rewards to developers of successful new drugs , while ensuring global access .
· advance innovation and improve use of diagnostic technology to support more efficient use of antibiotics .
· implement country- level targets focused on reducing unnecessary use of antibiotics in agriculture and humans .
with our final report complete , the review will now continue to make the international case for action directly to political leaders .
for example , in my capacity as the review ’ s chairman , i recently discussed our recommendations at the world health assembly in geneva , and with united nations and united states policymakers in new york and washington , dc .
in these discussions , policymakers ’ growing awareness of the danger posed by amr stood out .
just two years ago , the topic of drug-resistant infections would usually be met with questions like “ what is amr ? ” or , “ why would a finance minister take charge of a health crisis ? ”
few understood the scale and multifaceted nature of the challenge , and thus the need for a comprehensive approach .
i asked myself similar questions when british prime minister david cameron first asked me to lead the review on amr .
the situation has changed considerably since then .
policymakers from countries with a wide variety of economic and political systems are engaging on the amr problem , with some countries already taking steps to tackle it .
all of this provides grounds for hope that 2016 may be the year when real change gets underway .
but hope is one thing ; action is another .
while high-level meetings and speeches about amr send the right message , they will mean nothing if we do not manage to translate the current momentum into concrete action , beginning at the g20 and un meetings this september .
and while my most recent discussions suggest that agreements are likely to be reached at both of these meetings , it is far from certain that they will match the scale of the problem .
at the g20 , the needed agreement should focus on developing a global mechanism to re- invigor ate the market for new antibiotics that are globally affordable , accessible , and used as efficiently as possible .
at the un , the goal should be to turn the mantra of “ access , not excess ” into a reality , with an agreement to reduce the unnecessary use of antibiotics in agriculture , and to spear head a global awareness campaign .
increased funding for research and development of new antibiotics and diagnostics to fight amr is also vital .
crucially , the agreements must have teeth .
for starters , efforts to fight amr should be incorporated into broader economic- development strategies , including the implementation of the un sustainable development goals .
moreover , progress should be measured , not only so that policymakers , companies , and health systems can be held accountable , but also so that others can emulate their successes .
to this end , we may need new metrics for calculating the impact of amr .
while this sounds technical ( and it is ) , the reality is that top amr scientists think that agreeing on common measurements could change the way individual countries set their own targets and improve our capacity to measure progress in the coming years .
finally , to account for changing political priorities and personalities , we need a constant champion in the fight against amr .
for example , a un envoy on amr could be appointed , to continue making the international case for addressing the issue and to challenge countries to meet their targets .
without such a consistent reminder of the need to tackle amr , not to mention transparency about progress , the world could become si detr acked and miss the rapidly closing window of opportunity to deliver the changes needed to stop the rise of drug-resistant infections .
over the last couple of years , governments , industry , and international organizations have made important strides in meeting the amr threat .
but the really hard decisions must be taken now .
if we are to prevent the slow- motion car crash of rising amr , our leaders must take ev asive action now .
we know what we have to do ; now we must get on with doing it .
tackling amr with the imf
london – this month is the first anniversary of the united nations high-level meeting on antimicrobial resistance , which the united kingdom ’ s independent review on amr helped to bring about .
that moment last year was very grati fying for me , as the chairman of the review , as well as for my team and the uk ’ s chief medical officer , s ally dav ies .
last year ’ s high-level meeting resolved that memb er- state delegates are to re convene for a progress assessment after two years – so , in september 2018 .
the meeting also called for the establishment of an inter agency coordination group to guide efforts in the fight against amr during that two-year period .
from what i have gathered , the group is being led by deeply committed individuals .
and , more broadly , policymakers at the national and international levels have begun to pay more attention to the threat of amr .
in fact , since the un high-level meeting , the g20 has also made notable commitments in the battle against amr .
at the g20 summit in hamburg , germany , in july , governments agreed to establish an “ r & d collaboration hub , ” and to begin to phase out antibiotics in agriculture , where producers use them to promote animal growth .
the uk review recommended that an additional $ 2 billion be ear marked for early-stage research into amr , so the creation of an r & d hub is very welcome .
but the agreement to limit the use of antibiotics in agriculture was even more significant .
in the past , key g20 member states have resisted such commitments .
and in the texts that served as a foundation for the un high-level meeting , agriculture wasn ’ t even mentioned , owing to fear that it would render any eventual agreement dead on arrival .
the steps that the un and the g20 have taken are encouraging .
but the fight against amr is hardly over , and has probably only just begun .
looking forward , one of the biggest challenges will be holding to account individual countries and multilateral organizations , such as the un itself .
how will we confirm that governments and institutions have followed through on their lofty declarations ?
for starters , we can look at the inter section of economics and public health .
to my mind , the international monetary fund should take the lead .
as peter sands and his colleagues show in a may 2016 study in the lanc et , infec ti ous - disease outbreaks have far-reaching economic costs , and yet they are rarely , if ever , factor ed into assessments of macroeconomic risk .
the imf already conduc ts regular reviews of countries ’ economic health , and financial markets give significant weight to its analyses .
for the sake of economic as well as public health , the fund would do well to start tracking countries ’ progress in the fight against amr as well .
the european union declared more than ten years ago that it would fully phase out the use of antibiotics for animal growth promotion .
but who , other than the occasional investigative journalist , has ever actually del ved into eu member states ’ progress toward that goal ?
in the uk , my review colleagues and i were quite impressed by the government ’ s formal policy response to our recommendations , especially with respect to reducing antibiotic prescriptions , preventing hospit al- acquired infections , and limiting the use of antibiotics in farming to 50 mil li grams per kilo gram of livestock .
over the past year , i have given public talks at some of the british universities that are actively working on the amr threat .
i have been encouraged to see more academic researchers pursuing this topic than in the past .
but when i have qu iz zed my audiences , i have come to realize that hardly anyone knows about the government ’ s policy response .
this could mean that my audiences are simply un informed ; but i doubt that .
what is more likely is that the government has not yet followed through on its commitments .
the imf is ideally suited to get to the bottom of this question as a part of its routine economic assessments .
and its analyses would be even more valuable to less wealthy countries , where preventing outbreaks of infectious diseases could directly boost long-term economic growth .
one last concern that i have on this first anniversary of the un high-level meeting is that policymakers still need to agree on a source of funding for the market- entry rewards intended to encourage the development of new drugs and diagnostics .
such innovations will be crucial for preventing and detec ting amr , and an incentive mechanism to stimulate them is increasingly regarded as the right way to go .
that , too , is a topic on which the imf could provide invaluable advice .
the social science of medicine
davos – when i was a medical student in the mid- 1980s , i contracted malaria in pap ua new guinea . it was a miserable experience .
my head ached .
my temperature soared . i became anemic .
but i took my medicine , and i got better .
the experience wasn ’ t pleasant , but thanks to cheap , effective malaria drugs i was never in very much danger .
the p ills that cured me , chlor o qu ine tab lets , do not work anymore .
even at the time i was taking them , the paras ite that causes malaria had already become resistant to chlor o qu ine in many parts of the world ; pap ua new guinea was one of the last places where the p ills continued to be effective , and even there they were losing their pot ency .
today , chlor o qu ine has basically disappeared from our medical arsenal .
the growing capacity of pathogens to resist antibiotics and other antimicrobial drugs is turning into the greatest emerging crisis in contemporary health care – and it is a crisis that can not be solved by science alone .
other pharmaceuticals are following in chlor o qu ine ’ s wake .
multi- drug-resistant strains of tuberculosis , e. col i , and sal mon ell a are now commonplace .
super bugs , like meth ic ill in- resistant st aph y lo co cc us au re us ( m r sa ) and clo stri di um diffic ile , are proliferating .
in india , antibio tic- resistant infections killed more than 5 8,000 new bor ns in 2013 .
today , malaria is often treated with a combination of art emis in in – a drug derived from a chinese her b – and other antim al arial drugs .
but these revolutionary medicines are now in danger of following chlor o qu ine into obsol es cence ; resistant strains of malaria have been documented in southeast asia .
this is more than a medical problem ; it is a potential economic disaster .
research commissioned by the review on antimicrobial resistance , headed by the economist jim o ’ ne ill , has calculated that if current trends continue , drug-resistant infections will kill ten million people a year by 2050 and cost the global economy some $ 100 trillion over the next 35 years .
even that dramatic prediction may be a substantial underestimate , as it includes only the direct costs in terms of lives and wellbeing lost to infections . many other aspects of modern medicine also rely on antibiotics .
cancer patients receiving chemotherapy take them to suppress bacteria that would otherwise overwhelm their weakened immune systems .
many surgical operations now considered routine , including joint re plac ements and ca es are an sections , can be performed safely only when antibiotics prevent opportun istic infections .
the origins of drug resistance are a well- understood matter of evolution .
if pathogens are exposed to the selective pressure of toxic drugs , eventually they will adapt .
the well come trust , which i lead , has invested hundreds of millions of dollars into resear ching these mechanisms , improving diagnoses , and creating new drugs .
in order to address the problem effectively , this effort must be extended beyond the realm of biological science to areas not traditionally associated with medicine .
in rich and poor countries alike , we have become systematic ab users of antibiotics .
the key to combating resistance is to delay the rate at which the pathogens can adapt .
but , by over prescr ibing antibiotics and failing to complete the required courses of treatment , we are exposing ger ms to just enough medicine to encourage resistance .
in effect , we are vacc inating ger ms against the drugs we want to use against them .
that is because we have come to regard antibiotics almost as consumer goods – ours to demand from doctors , and ours to take or stop taking as we see fit .
even the most informed patients misuse these wonder drugs .
research in the united kingdom has found that even people who understand how resistance develops often contribute to the problem by taking antibiotics without a prescription or giving their drugs to members of their family .
changing such destructive behavior will require that we better understand the social and cultural factors that drive it .
disciplines like history , psychology , soci ology , anthropolog y , economics , market research , and social marketing can help .
this is true not only for antimicrobial resistance .
it also applies to outbreaks like the ebola epidemic .
combating the virus requires knowledge about its biology , the epidemi ology of its transmission , and the drugs and vaccines that could potentially be deployed against it .
but it also requires an understanding of the behaviors that have allowed infection to spread in liberia , sierra leone , and guinea .
explaining what made these societies so vulnerable requires learning about the region ’ s recent history and understanding why people there are deeply distr ust ful of public authorities .
isolation of patients and safe bur ial of the dead are crucial to containing ebola , but both need to be introduced with cultural sensitivity – not just explanations of the science behind them .
today ’ s great public-health threats have profound economic consequences .
science provides powerful tools .
but we need more than science to use these tools effectively .
where are we in the fight against amr ?
london – to mark the second anniversary of the british government ’ s review on antimicrobial resistance ( amr ) , which i had the honor of chair ing , two members of the review team – anth ony mc don nell and will hall – and i have published a new book : super bugs : an arms race against bacteria .
in it , we discuss the review ’ s ten recommended interventions – what i call the ten comman d ments – while considering the progress made so far , and the work that still needs to be done .
the first part of the book provides a detailed history of our understanding of bacteria and drug resistance , and points to evidence that drug resistance may now be rising faster than we had assumed .
for example , col ist in , which is generally regarded as one of the last usable antibiotics in humans after others have failed , is losing its effectiveness , owing to over use in animal farming , notably in china .
and , equally disturbing , reports of drug-resistant strains of gon or rhe a are becoming more frequent .
in the review , we predicted that if current trends continue , ten million people could die every year by 2050 , at a loss of some $ 100 trillion in global economic output since 2015 .
but now there is reason to fear that the situation could turn out even worse .
to ensure that it does not , the second part of the book focuses on solutions , and comp iles expert view points from many of those we interviewed for the review .
on a positive note , there has been progress on two of the three “ supply ” interventions that we recommended .
first , financing for early-stage research and development is growing .
just recently , new joint funding initiatives were launched by the british and chinese governments , the well come trust , the united states ’ biomedical advanced research and development authority ( bar da ) , and the danish pharmaceutical company nov o .
if this support is sustained , the review ’ s recommendation of $ 2 billion in additional r & d funding over the next five years will be within reach .
second , the number of researchers working on amr seems to be growing .
in fact , i like to joke that in northern england , amr research centers probably now out number the cities that have agreed to devol ution deals under the government ’ s northern powerhouse plan .
the progress made in these two areas gives me hope that similar advances can be made elsewhere .
but further progress will require less talk and more action from government and industry leaders .
that is especially true of the pharmaceutical industry – the target of the third “ supply ” intervention we proposed .
rather than focusing solely on short-term profit margins , the industry must invest more in r & d and the production of new treatments .
representatives of the 25 largest pharmaceutical firms , i am told , met on the fring es of the world economic forum ’ s annual meeting in davos this year to discuss amr , agreeing to remain engaged on the issue .
in other words , they agreed to keep doing nothing .
the industry ’ s failure to back ear nest rhetoric with concrete actions is becoming increasingly frustrating .
the largest 25 firms could easily persuade key governments to act on the review ’ s recommendation for a market- entry reward .
with a prize of $ 1 billion or more for the development of new treatments to combat amr , far more firms would start to pursue their own r & d .
that points to the need for governments to do more as well .
following the review , amr was finally put on the g20 ’ s agenda , both at the 2016 summit in hang zhou , china , and at last year ’ s summit in hamburg , germany .
this year , the g20 summit will take place in buenos aires , argentina , and one can only hope that world leaders will start to act on the statements of the past few years , not least by pil oting a market- entry reward .
two years ago , we pressed western countries to start requiring rapid diagnostic tests as a prerequisite for all antibiotic prescriptions by 2020 .
not surprisingly , no government welcomed this idea .
but , unless effective diagnostics become more embedded in health-care systems , we will not be able to reduce unnecessary antibiotic usage and ensure effective treatments for patients with a genuine need .
so , market- entry rewards should be extended to innovations in diagnostics , too .
there has been some progress on the remaining four comman d ments – greater public awareness , improved sanitation , improved surveillance , and dramatically reduced usage of antibiotics in agriculture – but not enough .
the world bank , the world health organization , and the international monetary fund need to shine a brighter spotlight on countries that are not investing in their health systems .
and the united nations needs to follow through on commitments made at the high-level meeting on amr in september 2016 .
that means taking steps to improve surveillance and compliance , and pressing the un ’ s 193 member states to implement the “ one health ” national action plans agreed to in 2015 .
with respect to agriculture , some major western food producers and distribu tors have indicated that they may develop their own amr action plans .
to that end , they should all agree to start labeling their meat and fish products with color codes den oting the amount of antibiotics that went into their production ; and they should refuse to buy or sell any products that have used col ist in .
overcoming the amr threat is entirely feasible .
but confronting it will require us to turn words into action .
by getting out of our comfort zones now , we can avoid far worse discomfort down the road .
the anti- science seed treaty
stanford – in september , the united states ratified the international treaty on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture , known as the international seed treaty .
like so many international agreements crafted under the auspices of the united nations , it is severely flawed .
indeed , the seed treaty is a politically correct , anti- technology fi asco .
to be sure , the treaty , which entered into force in 2004 , eman ates from some laudable intentions .
but it is ultimately a j um ble of pi e- in- the- sky aspirations , translated into draconian legal constraints on the exchange of genetic resources ( mainly seeds ) among countries .
the un reality of the treaty ’ s goals comes through in the official statement of its objectives : “ the conservation and sustainable use of all plant genetic resources for food and agriculture and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of their use , in harmony with the convention on biological diversity , for sustainable agriculture and food security . ”
the guiding principle of the seed treaty is that genetic resources fall within the “ sovereign right ” of member states ( that is , governments ) .
this amounts to an explicit rejection of the long-standing understanding that genetic resources in plants and animals are the “ common heritage of humanity . ”
it def ies the notion that certain global resources , regarded as beneficial to all , should not be unilaterally exploited and monopol ized by individuals , states , corporations , or other entities , but rather should be managed in ways that benefit all of humanity .
the seed treaty was motivated by fear of “ biop ir acy ” – the pil fer ing of the world ’ s genetic resources by agricultural seed companies , which could then claim patents on them and wield monopoly control .
but , though accusations of biop ir acy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little fac tual basis .
in fact , biop ir acy is rare – so rare that it can be dealt with directly .
instead , the world created a bar o que , bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhib its scientific research , plant breeding , and the creation of intellectual property .
the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources .
the seed treaty also brought under the control of its parties and secretariat the 15 research institutions that comprise the consul tative group of international agricultural research ( c gi ar ) , an influential global research partnership .
but common rules are little help .
unfortunately , as a result of the seed treaty , countries increasingly treat their genetic resources like a dog treats a bone : no sharing allowed , even among their own scientists and plant bre ed ers , while most international exchanges of genetic resources have been shut down over the last 12 years .
the c gi ar centers have been able to continue exchanges of genetic resources , but the process is now much more complicated and demanding that it was before the seed treaty came into force .
for the us , the precise impact of the seed treaty ’ s implementation is difficult to determine , not least because the treaty contains wish y- wash y , ambiguous ph r asing that obs cures its meaning and requirements .
what is clear is that the experience of countries that have implemented the treaty has not been particularly positive , unless those countries have a high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations .
the seed treaty is cut from the same anti- capitalist , anti- science , anti- innovation clo th as the convention on biological diversity ( cb d ) .
it also mirrors the flag ran tly un scientific , anti- gene tic- engineering cart ag ena protocol on bi os af e ty to the cb d .
and it has much in common with the nag oy a- ku ala lum pur supplem entary protocol on liability and redress to the cart ag ena protocol – yet another anti- gene tic- engineering scre ed , which accompl ishes little except to frigh ten potential entrepreneurs away from agricultural biotechnology .
it is over wrought , confusing , and complex – in short , in im ical to innovations that could benefit the world ’ s poor .
the seed treaty runs counter to science , agricultural development , and intellectual property rights .
that , in the policymaking game , is three strikes – and should be an out .
the us senate , which ratified the seed treaty , should reconsider , as article 32 of the treaty allows .
thereafter , the us state department would no tify the treaty ’ s secretariat , with official withdrawal taking effect a year later .
president-elect donald trump , author of the art of the deal , has promised americans that he will put an end to bad ones .
withdrawal from the seed treaty would be an aus pic ious start to making good on that pledge .
in defense of the jews , again
madrid – despite the impression given by massive unity rallies throughout france , the recent attack on the s ati r ical magazine charlie he b do does not mean that freedom of expression is under any serious threat in western europe .
nor does it indicate that islamic radicalism is somehow about to engul f or transform western societies .
the threat that it does highlight is a less publicized one : the resurgence of discrimination and violence against europe ’ s jews .
charlie he b do – the last v esti ge of a b aw dy and somewhat sav age nineteenth-century french tradition of outrageous caric ature of religious and political figures – may well be an ideal icon of free expression .
europeans rose to defend a vital principle ; free speech , however vicious , retains a place in any democracy .
likewise , “ eur ab ia , ” bat y e ’ or ’ s prophecy of islamic doom for the west , simply is not emerging .
no islamic parties hold seats in european parliaments ; few leading muslim figures feature in europe ’ s major centers of cultural and political power ; and european union institutions are practically ber ef t of arabs and muslims .
efforts by radicals to recruit and in doctr inate young european muslims do not reflect the inexor able rise of islamist – or even islamic – influence in europe .
rather , they highlight the radicals ’ desperation to influence a region where the overwhelming majority of muslims aspire to integrate into , rather than challenge , the established order .
what is truly under threat in europe is its jewish community .
in 2006 , the french je w il an hal im i was kidn apped and brutally tortured in a cell ar for three weeks , resulting in his death .
in 2012 , three jewish schoolchildren and a rab bi were gun ned down in tou lou se .
and last april , a jewish couple in a par is ian subur b were rob bed , because , as the attackers put it , “ jews must have money ” ( though that did not explain why they then rap ed the woman ) .
a few months after that , a mob assa ulted a syn agogue in paris .
none of these events sparked anything remotely resem bling the public outrage of recent weeks .
had the murder of four jews at a kos her super market in paris , carried out by a con feder ate of the charlie he b do attackers prior to their capture , occurred in other circumstances , one can assume that it would not have fueled a widespread movement to defend the values of the french republic .
some argue that the surge in anti-semitic violence in europe is motivated primarily by the plight of the palestinians .
but , according to a 2012 poll , more europeans believe that violence against jews is fueled by long-standing anti-semitic attitudes , rather than anti- israel sentiment .
radical islam propag ated hatred for jews long before zionism , and it will continue to do so after the creation of a palestinian state .
given this , it is not surprising that the increasing vis ibility of islamist extremism has , by capturing the attention of frustrated young muslim men in europe and elsewhere , spurred increased violence against jews .
but the problem runs deeper , giving jews the impression that they have no future in europe .
a recent you go v poll found that a substantial share of the french and british populations hold anti-semitic views .
another poll , conducted by the center for research on prejudice at warsaw university , showed that , in 2013 , some 63 % of poles believed jews consp ire to control the banking system and the world media .
this has serious implications not just for jews , but for europe as a whole .
as hann ah ar end t pointed out six decades ago , the rise of anti-semitism fueled europe ’ s descent into totalitarianism .
with right-wing extremist and populist movements gaining traction in many countries , europe ’ s political system – and the values that underpin it – is at risk .
french prime minister manuel valls recognizes this danger .
in a recent speech at the national assembly that recalled em ile z ola ’ s attack on the “ blind stup idity ” of je w - hatred almost 120 years ago , he asked : “ how can we accept that in franc e … sh outs of “ death to the jews ! ” can be heard in our streets ? ... how can we accept that french people can be murdered because they are jewish ? ”
he then warned that the revival of anti-semitism in france – apparent , for example , in the anxiety over the holocaust ’ s inclusion in the french school curriculum – indicates a crisis of democracy .
but valls remains the only european politician to have highlighted the danger with the sense of urgency that it merits .
it is time for his counterparts to step up , and doing so should not rule out bold policies , free of any complex es , aimed at influencing israel ’ s policy toward palestine .
at the same time , it is a dangerous fallacy to seek re dem ption for a problem that is so deeply ingrained in europe ’ s history – and in islam ’ s – by blaming it on the israel-palestine conflict or on young , alienated muslims .
europeans must take a good hard look at themselves if they are to avoid falling back into the clu t ches of fear , hatred , and appalling politics .
trust in markets and antitrust in media
london – this year ’ s world economic forum annual meeting in davos came at a moment of puzz lement for the world ’ s economic and financial elites .
although the global economy has lately been doing rather well , voters have been rebel ling against them .
despite much- publicized challenges and weak points , there has been plenty of good economic news in recent years .
globalization and technological progress have supported annual global per capita gdp growth of 2.5 % since 2009 – lower than before the great recession , but still very high by historical standards .
in the last 35 years , the share of the world ’ s population living in poverty has fallen from 40 % to just 10 % .
perhaps the biggest griev ance of the past year has been inequality .
but , at the global level , inequality is falling .
and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic , and it remains at reasonable levels .
according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’ s new transition report , based on the 201 5- 2016 life in transition survey produced by the world bank and the ebr d ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increase in inequality far exceeds the reality described by official data , typically based on household surveys .
in all but one of the 34 countries where households were surveyed , a majority of respondents reported that inequality has risen in just the last few years .
yet the official data show very small changes in the gini coefficient ( a standard measure of inequality ) over this period , with most countries having experienced a decrease in inequality .
one might assume that , in a clash between data and perception , data always win .
but , in this case , it may be the data that are wrong – or , more accurately , we may be using the wrong data .
unlike ordinary citizens , who see the homeless in the street and the billionaires in the news , the household surveys that underpin inequality measurements may be under- sam pling those at the very top and the very bottom of the income distribution .
another kind of data , gathered by the french economist thomas piketty , may provide a more accurate picture of inequality today : tax records .
those data indicate that income growth among the super-rich has lately far exceeded that of the rest of the population .
philip pe ag h ion of harvard and the college de france and his co- authors have reinforced this finding , showing that , while inequality has not increased among the bottom 99 % of rich-country populations , the top 1 % has pulled away from the pack .
the concentration of wealth at the very top , point out piketty and others , may be dangerous .
if political institutions are weak , wealthy tyco ons can use their money to “ capture ” government officials and tilt economic regulations in their own favor .
with their newly acquired competitive advantages , they can accrue undue profits , re investing part of their haul in acquiring even more unfair rents .
the concentration of wealth would become difficult to limit , and , over time , smaller entrepreneurs would be crowded out .
of course , if a country ’ s political institutions are strong enough , not even the super-rich can distort the rules of the game .
in that case , those who accrue the most wealth are the most talented and luc k iest entrepreneurs , who reap their rewards for driving innovation and growth that benefit the entire economy .
unfortunately , in many of the ebr d ’ s 36 member countries , political institutions are not all that strong .
this is reflected in the fact that commodities and natural resources account for a majority of billionaires ’ wealth in the ebr d countries , suggesting not just that resource rents are available , but also that those rents are being inadequately taxed .
there is a clear need to tackle the unfair political influence of the super-rich .
most directly , this means making political financing more transparent , with stricter and more effective regulations .
but it also means addressing the use of media by oligarchs to manipulate politics to their own benefit .
as lu ig i z ing ales pointed out in 2012 , oligarchs can use media ownership to solidi fy their political positions , which they can then exploit to secure rents from which they can fund media .
former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi , z ing ales argues , was master ful in this regard .
but many oligarchs in the post-communist countries have done likewise .
some oligarchs would argue that it is better that they own the media than that the government does ; at least they can compete with other oligarchs .
that is a red her ring .
yes , ownership of media by a kle p tocr atic or authoritarian government is dangerous .
but so is ownership of media by oligarchs who can coll ude with one another to protect their collective interests – interests that may differ sharply from those of the rest of society .
media lie at the foundation of modern democratic societies .
that is why ownership should be transparent , with , ideally , media owners prohibited from owning other assets .
of course , such an antitrust policy would face fierce political resistance .
and even if such a policy were implemented , tyco ons would continue to work to influence the media through , say , mis priced advertising contracts .
and , to some extent , some media might welcome oligarch ic subsidies as a way to manage new challenges to traditional business models .
to address these problems requires , first and foremost , a strong independent regulator .
at the same time , transparent and de- politicized public subsidies can help to support the social good of honest news media .
implementing an effective media antitrust framework will not be easy .
but it will still be easier than cont ending with an increasingly dissatisfied public losing faith in democracy and open markets .
an ugly peace for sudan
stanford – well , america is involved at last .
president barack obama has dispat ched senator john kerry to sudan with a proposal for peace between the country ’ s north and south . it ’ s a giant step toward avoiding the kind of bloodshed that killed more than two million people in sudan ’ s previous 20 -year north-south civil war , which ended only in 2005 – and is threatening to erupt once again .
in recent months , obama has stepped up his own involvement and that of senior figures in his administration in support of a peace strategy for sudan .
on his behalf , kerry has delivered a package of proposals designed to break the log j am that has brought the north and south to a dangerous crossroads .
we have written a mem o that sp ells out some of the essential elements of what a grand bargain for peace in sudan could look like .
if you ’ re interested in the specific s of a possible peace deal – and in actions that you can take to support it – go to www. su dan ac tion now . or g .
there is little time to waste .
on january 9 , 2011 , the people of southern sudan will vote for independence from the north , taking with them up to three-quarters of the country ’ s known oil reserves and placing millions of civilians in the direct path of war .
the government in khar tou m ( the capital in the north ) is led by om ar al- bashir , whose accomplishments , which include overseeing war crimes during the previous north-south war and engineering the atrocities in darfur , have brought him arrest warr ants for war crimes and genocide from the international criminal court .
and yet renewed war in sudan is not inevitable .
a complex but workable peace can be brokered if all interested parties become more deeply involved .
the current moment requires robust diplomacy – the kind that can leave a bad taste in your mouth , but that gets the job done .
we believe that kerry is a skilled emis s ary and can help the parties find the compromises necessary for peace .
any agreement preventing a return to war would necessarily involve the national congress party , representing the north , and the sudan people ’ s liberation movement , representing the south .
but it would also involve the united states , whose post- referendum relationship with the two parties will have enormous influence over whether a deal gets done .
we believe that a grand bargain to lay the foundation for lasting peace between the north and south would obli ge the parties to :
· hold the southern sudan referendum on time and fully respect and implement the results ;
· reach a mutually satisfactory agreement concerning the territory of ab ye i , a key disputed border area ;
· craft a multi-year revenue- sharing arrangement in which the oil wealth of ab ye i and key border areas could be divided equitably between the north and south , with a small percentage going to the arab mis ser i ya border populations for development purposes ;
· dem ar c ate the un contested 80 % of the border and refer the remaining 20 % to binding international arbitration ;
· create serious protections for minority groups , with consideration of joint citizenship for certain populations , backed by significant international consequences for attacks on sou ther ners in the north or nor ther ners in the south .
in exchange for action on the north-south and darfur peace efforts , the us would implement a clear , sequ enced , and binding path to normalization of relations .
this would involve – in order – removal of sudan from the state sponsors of terrorism list , exchange of ambass ad ors , lifting of unilateral sanctions , and support for bilateral and multilateral debt relief , together with other economic measures by international financial institutions .
conversely , the us must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plun ges the country back into war .
peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for norm alized relations between the us and sudan .
the obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming rounds of negotiation , and should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur in order to ensure that peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as the north-south efforts .
what is needed now is political will – and not only in the us – to sustain this diplomacy .
the european union and sudan ’ s neighbors – in particular egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role .
and china ’ s diplomacy in sudan , where it has invested massively in developing the country ’ s oil resources , will be a test of whether or not it intends to be a responsible stakeholder in africa and the wider world .
ensuring that governments work toward peace is where you come in . keep the pressure on them .
support the peace process . your voice can prevent a war .
not money . just our voices .
the way to peace in sudan is not simple , but it is achievable .
there are hard choices to be made .
we can make those choices now , or we can persuade ourselves that peace is too hard or too complex , and then look on re sig ne dly from the sidelines as hundreds of thousands of innocent men , women , and children need lessly die .
it ’ s up to us .
a partnership for peace in the hindu kus h
k hy ber pass , northwest frontier province , pakistan -- pakistani president pervez musharraf and afghan president hamid karzai never had a shared border strategy .
but , standing at mic hn i post , the highest point of the k hy ber pass , star ing down at the thousands of trucks and bus es bu z zing through afghanistan into pakistan under the shadows of the hindu kus h , the answer is obvious : controlling the afghan - pakistan border requires a counter insurgency policy that looks at afghanistan and pakistan together .
pakistan ’ s new government has a great opportunity to make this change .
in order to cut off the taliban and al-qaeda ’ s recruitment and supplies , both countries should fight the militants in tandem .
that means , first , improving security training for the border forces , starting with pakistan ’ s frontier corps , the 50 ,000- man combat force along the 1, 6 00- mile afghan border .
these “ sons of the soil ” are in bad shape .
they receive no more than two dollars a day to patrol the area , which r anges from 2 5 ,000- foo t- high mountains to barr en deser ts .
they also fight with old weapons .
as one senior commander told me , “ the taliban are better equipped and have more fire power . ”
they have no air mobility , and worse , no rapid reaction force to support them .
two frontier batt al ions have been under siege at lad ha fort in south wa zir istan for the past few months .
security along the border can run on parallel tracks .
major general muhammad al am khat ta k , the frontier corps ’ inspec tor general , made a suggestion to me : “ take our frontier corps . train them somewhere and bring them back . ”
through nato ’ s international security assistance force ( is a f ) afghan national army training program , it should rot ate the frontier corps batt al ions with their pashtun brothers one at a time .
additional resources provided by pakistan for proper equipment and force buildup – including the creation of a frontier corps rapid reaction force – should be committed so that frontier corps soldiers become the counter insurgency partners in pakistan that afghanistan needs .
second , reconciliation with the insurgents should begin by inducing defec tions .
this was recommended by a senior us military commander , who said that “ 60 % of insurgent activity could be cur bed by reconciliation . ”
despite overwhelming support for this process , methods to do so are absent .
in afghanistan ’ s hel m and province , 2,000 taliban fighters were r ounded up and ve tted by is a f forces , only to be abandoned after the initiative was not supported by afghanistan ’ s central government .
in kh ost , dozens of former taliban members from the tribal areas def ected , promising to lay down their arms in exchange for – only to be given nothing .
in both cases , the defec ting insurgents said the same thing : they could recruit dozens more ; they just need incentives .
a regional reconciliation program targeting mid - and lower- tier taliban and al-qaeda commanders should be developed and implemented by pakistan and afghanistan .
third , the drug lords should be arrested and detained .
as one senior afghan government official said , “ if you can ’ t remove a corrupt judge , how can you deal with the taliban ? ”
there are a hundred top drug lords in afghanistan .
everyone knows who they are . yet none has been arrested .
not doing so , due to fear of backlash , only enhances their power .
and allowing them to continue to control the smuggling routes creates a ri p ple effect that bank rol ls corruption of provincial officials and the afghan national police , which in turn feeds the insurgency .
finally , reform the mad r ass a system .
not all mad r ass as are hot be ds of terrorist training .
the problem is that afghan religious students must go to pakistan for any religious education after 19 or 20 years of age .
they are then quickly pressured to become “ bad taliban ” through money , propaganda , and pressure from pakistani mul la hs .
to address this problem , afghan education minister han if at mar – perhaps the most reform-minded member of the government – is seeking to build 34 new mad r ass as ( his goal is 2,000 ) in afghanistan for higher learning .
his proposal , which aims to reform the curriculum to include islamic studies , gender studies , computer science , and english , should receive overwhelming support .
with fewer students from afghanistan going to pakistan , pakistan could turn its attention to the country ’ s own mad r ass as and to the mul la hs who convert students into suicide bombers .
the curriculum for both countries , based on minister at mar ’ s proposal , should be coordinated .
mad r ass as that meet these curriculum standards should be registered , supported , and encouraged .
only an effective afghan - pakistan partnership can begin to control the insurgency in the border area .
the war in afghanistan , and destabilization in pakistan , will not end without it .
a path through europe ’ s min ef ield
london – earlier this week , a group of almost 100 prominent europeans delivered an open letter to the leaders of all 17 eurozone countries .
the letter said , in so many words , what the leaders of europe now appear to have understood : they can not go on “ k icking the can down the road . ”
indeed , europe ’ s banking and sovereign-debt problems are mutually self-reinforcing .
the decline in government bond prices has exposed the banks ’ under capitalization , while the prospect that governments will have to finance banks ’ recapitalization has driven up risk premiums on government bonds .
facing the prospect of having to raise additional capital at a time when their shares are selling at a fraction of book value , banks have a powerful incentive to reduce their balance sheets by withdrawing credit lines and shrinking their loan portfolios .
europe ’ s leaders are now contemplating what to do , and their next move will have fateful consequences , either cal ming the markets or driving them to new extremes .
all agree that greece needs an orderly restructuring , because a disorderly default could cause a eurozone meltdown .
but , when it comes to the banks , i am afraid that the eurozone ’ s leaders are contemplating some inappropriate steps .
specifically , they are talking about recapit alizing the banking system , rather than guaranteeing it .
and they want to do it on a country- by- country basis , rather than on the basis of the eurozone as a whole .
there is a good reason for this : germany does not want to pay for recapit alizing french banks .
but , while chancellor angela merkel is justified in insisting on this , it is driving her in the wrong direction .
let me stake out more precisely the narrow path that would allow europe to pass through this min ef ield .
the banking system needs to be guaranteed first , and recapit alized later .
governments can not afford to recapitalize the banks now ; it would leave them with insufficient funds to deal with the sovereign-debt problem .
it will cost much less to recapitalize the banks after the crisis has ab ated and both government bonds and bank shares have returned to more normal levels .
governments can , however , provide a credible guarantee , given their power to tax .
a new , legally binding agreement – not a change to the lisbon treaty ( which would encounter too many hurdles ) , but a new agreement – will be needed for the eurozone to mobilize that power , and such an accord will take time to negotiate and ratify .
but , in the meantime , governments can call upon the european central bank , which the eurozone member states already fully guarantee on a pr o rat a basis .
in exchange for a guarantee , the eurozone ’ s major banks would have to agree to abide by the ecb ’ s instructions .
this is a radical step , but a necessary one under the circumstances .
acting at the beh est of the member states , the ecb has sufficient powers of persuasion : it could close its discount window to the banks , and the governments could seize institutions that refuse to cooperate .
the ecb would then instruc t the banks to maintain their credit lines and loan portfolios while strictly monitoring the risks they take for their own account .
this would remove one of the two main driving forces of the current market turmoil .
the ecb could deal with the other driving force , the lack of financing for sovereign debt , by lowering its discount rate , encouraging distressed governments to issue treasury bills , and encouraging the banks to subscr ibe ( an idea i owe to tom mas o pad o a- sch i op pa ) .
the t- bills could be sold to the ecb at any time , making them tantamount to cash ; but , as long as they yield more than deposits with the ecb , the banks would find it advantageous to hold them .
governments could meet their financing needs within agreed limits at very low cost during this emergency period , and the ecb would not violate article 1 23 of the lisbon treaty .
these measures would be sufficient to calm markets and bring the acute phase of the crisis to an end .
recapitalization of the banks should wait until then ; only the holes created by restructuring the greek debt would have to be filled immediately .
in con formity with germany ’ s demand , the additional capital would come first from the market and then from individual governments – and from the european financial stability facility only as a last resort , thereby preserving the efsf ’ s firepower .
a new agreement for the eurozone , negotiated in a cal mer atmosphere , should not only co di fy the practices established during the emergency , but also lay the groundwork for an economic-growth strategy .
a peace agenda for global development
mon ro via , liberia – this week , the 27 members of the high-level panel of eminent persons on the post-2015 development agenda gather in mon ro via , liberia , to advise united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon .
at the meeting , the panel will establish a “ bold yet practical ” vision for joint action on sustainable development .
while these discussions – hosted by liber ian president and nobel peace prize laureate ellen johnson sir leaf , indonesian president su sil o bam bang y ud ho y on o , and british prime minister david cameron – take place , the nearby sahel and the great l akes region continue to be plagued by violence and conflict .
indeed , large-scale displacement of people and un spe ak able human suffering are occurring in many african countries ( not to mention in syria and elsewhere ) , threatening to reverse the continent ’ s unprecedented economic progress during the last decade .
the panel ( of which i am a member ) must seize the opportunity presented by the mon ro via meeting to contribute to a global development agenda that addresses the vicious cycle of conflict and poverty that hamp ers economic activity and undermines human well-being .
for more than a decade , the millennium development goals , which expire in two years , have provided the framework for international development cooperation , with a focus on combating poverty worldwide .
in developing a new , comprehensive follow-up agenda , global leaders should recognize that , although the mdgs have enabled millions of people worldwide to escape illiteracy , disease , and hunger , their overall impact has been inadequate , particularly in fragile , conflict- ridden countries .
world bank statistics show that no conflict- affected low-income country has achieved a single mdg , reflecting the framework ’ s failure to address problems caused by organized violence and insecurity effectively .
that is why the post-2015 agenda should be centered on peace , security , and freedom from fear .
it should aim to make justice and prosperity a reality for everyone .
and it should reflect the understanding that development is impossible without peace , just as peace is impossible without development – and that lasting peace and sustainable development are impossible without respect for human rights and the rule of law .
furthermore , as the mon ro via meeting ’ s theme , “ national building blocks for sustained prosperity , ” suggests , post-2015 global development initiatives should emphasize support for national efforts to achieve strong , stable , long-term prosperity .
strategies that would help countries to overcome domestic insecurity and conflict , transform their economies , and , ultimately , meet their potential include strengthening governance institutions and the rule of law , ensuring multi- stakeholder participation , and guaranteeing that all citizens have equal access to justice .
international support for such efforts would mean giving african leaders and stakeholders the opportunity – and the responsibility – to eliminate under development and boost prosperity .
moreover , while poverty eradication will remain a paramount concern after 2015 , the focus must shift from national averages to local disparities .
measures must move beyond overall social needs to bolster progress in productive job- creating and income- generating sectors .
and strong efforts must be made in conflict- affected countries to promote reconciliation and prevent the revival of violence .
given liberia ’ s recent success in post-conflict reconstruction and human development , following a 14 -year civil war , it is a fitting setting for the panel ’ s deliberations .
since 2003 , domestic vision and commitment , together with international support , have enabled liberia to hold democratic elections , re introduce some essential public services , reestablish a public- finance management system , and make progress in addressing endemic corruption , rebuilding public institutions , and re constructing national infrastructure .
the panel should view liberia ’ s ongoing efforts to secure peace , maintain stability , and initiate economic and social transformation as a blueprint for successful post-conflict transition .
other inspiring models can be found in rwanda , mozambique , and sierra leone .
the panel is committed to creating an ambitious , coherent , and practical proposal for a sustainable global development agenda .
the process will be open , inclusive , and transparent , and will be informed by the opinions and experiences of experts and stakeholders representing young people , women , the elderly , and the disabled , as well as legislative , academic , and inter-governmental actors .
the panel will also take advantage of extensive online and offline efforts to engage with people worldwide and gain insight into the future that they envision .
their perspectives will enrich efforts to develop an agenda that addresses their priorities .
in a world roiled by conflict , development efforts will always fall short .
the post-2015 global development agenda must take a comprehensive approach , combining poverty- reduction measures with peace- building initiatives and strategies for economic transformation .
in this way , global leaders can begin to lay the foundations for prosperity , justice , and sustainable development worldwide .
the asian paradox
seoul – given that the 21 members of the asia-pacific economic cooperation forum account for some 54 % of global gdp and about 44 % of world trade , the agenda for this month ’ s ap ec summit should be drawing much global attention .
yet the only issue in which anyone seems interested is whether or not chinese president xi jinping and japanese prime minister shinzo abe will meet on the sidelines , and , if they do , whether a substantive discussion to ease bilateral tensions will take place .
of course , this is not altogether unreasonable , given the two countries ’ importance in shaping east asia ’ s future .
indeed , the uncertainty about whether two of ap ec ’ s key leaders will even speak to each other highlights the grim reality of asian international relations today .
the supposed “ asian century ” is being thwarted by a paradox : deep economic interdependence has done nothing to alleviate strategic mistrust .
given the recent deterioration of sino- japanese relations – a decline that accelerated in 2012 , when japan purchased the disputed senkaku islands ( diaoyu islands in chinese ) from their private owner to prevent japanese nationalists from taking control of them – the mere fact that abe will attend the summit is a major step .
a meeting between abe and xi – their first since either came to power – would offer concrete grounds for hope .
the japanese government has made significant diplomatic efforts to orchestr ate a meeting , with former prime minister yas u o fu k ud a visiting beijing in july to try to ease tensions .
according to some media reports , in order to secure china ’ s agreement to participate in a meeting during the ap ec summit , abe even agreed to acknowledge that japan ’ s claim to the senkaku islands is disputed .
given that such a move would imply that china ’ s claim to the islands may have some legitimacy , abe ’ s possible concession on this point is no trivial matter ; it could even mean that he will agree with china to restore the status quo ante .
in that case , one hopes that xi will follow deng xiaoping ’ s counsel and allow the issue to be “ shel ved for some time ” so that the “ wiser ” next generation can “ find a solution acceptable to all . ”
that now seems to be a realistic possibility .
indeed , lately xi seems to have sof tened his tone , if not necessarily his diplomatic line .
for example , he allowed li xia ol in , the daughter of a former chinese president , to meet with abe , with whom she watched a performance by a visiting chinese dance trou pe in tokyo .
and chinese prime minister li keqiang shook hands with abe at the recent asia- europe meeting in milan .
one reason for abe and xi ’ s newfound flexibility may be domestic political shifts in both countries , which have created a more equal balance between conservative , nationalist groups and more internation ally- oriented business interests .
with both leaders having spent the last two years overcoming domestic opponents and consolidating their power , they may have gained confidence in their ability to compromise .
in japan , abe has satisfied his conservative supporters with cabinet resolutions to allow for expanded self-defense .
despite domestic opposition to japan ’ s new security doctrine , no politically influential group was able to organize an effective challenge to abe ’ s approach .
now , as japan ’ s economic recovery st alls , the country ’ s business sector seems to be pres suring abe ’ s government to work harder to mitigate the impact of its deteriorating relationship with china .
according to a chinese government report , in the first half of 2014 , japanese direct investment in china was almost 50 % lower than during the same period last year – a clear sign that japanese business leaders fear for the future in japan ’ s second largest market .
meanwhile , in china , xi has gained considerable confidence through his massive anti-corruption campaign , with the punishment of top military officers indicating that he has solidi fied his control over the people ’ s liberation army ( pla ) .
as a result , xi may believe that he now has more space to address the country ’ s economic slowdown , including by less ening the damage wrought by weakening ties with japan .
if this assessment is accurate , the obvious next question is how much further abe and xi can move toward détente , thereby appe asing their business sectors , without losing the backing of nationalists , who tend to view the bilateral relationship as a zero-sum game .
for abe , the choice is whether to tone down his nationalist rhetoric and moderate his position on contentious historical issues .
this would include halting visits to the controversial yasukuni shrine ( which hon ors , among others , 14 class a war criminals who were executed after world war ii ) and abandoning revision ism regarding the korean “ comfort women ” who were forced to provide sexual services to the japanese imperial army .
how abe decides is likely to depend on his confidence in his political position .
similarly , if xi remains confident enough in his control of the pla and truly follows china ’ s official policy of “ peaceful development , ” he will be able to take the kind of prudent approach that deng advocated .
observers might then read his recent efforts to improve relations with japan , not to mention vietnam , as a genuine strategic shift , rather than a temporary tactical adjustment .
in this uncertain context , the ap ec summit could shed much-needed light on the intentions of abe and xi , thereby providing crucial insight into the trajectory of sino- japanese relations – and thus the future of east asia .
a people ’ s economics
new haven – we are in the midst of a boom in popular economics : books , articles , blog s , public lectures , all followed closely by the general public .
i recently participated in a panel discussion of this phenomenon at the american economic association annual meeting in denver .
an apparent paradox emerged from the discussion : the boom in popular economics comes at a time when the general public seems to have lost faith in professional economists , because almost all of us failed to predict , or even warn of , the current economic crisis , the biggest since the great depression .
so , why is the public buying more books by professional economists ?
the most interesting explanation i heard was that economics has become more interesting , because it no longer seems to be a finished and closed discipline .
it is no fun to read a book or article that says that economic forecasting is best left to computer models that you , the general read er , would need a ph . d. to understand .
and , in truth , the public is right : while there is a somewhat scientific basis for these models , they can go spectacularly wrong .
sometimes we need to turn off aut op il ot and think for ourselves , and when a crisis occurs , use our best human intell ect .
the pan el ists all said , in one way or another , that popular economics facilitates an exchange between specialized economists and the broader public – a dialogue that has never been more important .
after all , most economists did not see this crisis coming in part because they had removed themselves from what real-world people were doing and thinking .
successful popular economics involves the read er or list en er , in some sense , as a collabor ator .
that , of course , means that economists must be willing to include new and original theories that are not yet received doctrine among professional specialists .
until recently , many professional economists would be reluctant to write a popular book .
certainly , it would not be viewed favorably in considering a candidate for tenure or a promotion .
since it does not include equations or statistical tables , they would argue , it is not serious work that is worthy of scholarly attention .
worse than that , at least until recently , a committee evaluating an economist would likely think that writing a popular economics book that does not repeat the received wisdom of the discipline might even be professi onally unethical .
imagine how the medical profession would view one of its members who recommended to the general public some therapy that had not yet passed scrutiny from the appropriate authorities .
medical professionals know how often seemingly promising new therapies turn out , after careful study , not to work , or even to be harmful .
there is a rigorous process of scholarly review of proposed new therapies , associated with professional journals that uphold high research standards .
circum v enting that process and promoting new , untested ideas to the general public is un professional .
in the decades prior to the current financial crisis , economists gradually came to view themselves and their profession in the same way , encouraged by research trends .
for example , after 1960 , when the university of chicago started creating a un iv ac computer tape that contained systematic information about millions of stock prices , a great deal of scientific research on the properties of stock prices was taken as confir ming the “ efficient markets hypothesis . ”
the competitive forces that underlie stock exchanges were seen to force all securities prices to their true fundamental values .
all trading schemes not based on this hypothesis were labeled as either misguided or outright fra u ds .
science had triumph ed over stock-market pund it ry – or so it seemed .
the financial crisis delivered a fatal blow to that over confidence in scientific economics .
one way to interpret this is that the economics profession was not fully accounting for the economy ’ s human element , an element that can ’ t be reduced to mathematical analysis .
the relatively few professional economists who warned of the current crisis were people , it seems , who not only read the scholarly economics literature , but also brought into play more personal judgment : intuitive comparisons with past historical episodes ; conclusions about speculative trading , price bubbles , and the stability of confidence ; evalu ations of the moral purposes of economic actors ; and impres sions that complacency had set in , l ul ling watch dogs to sleep .
these were judgments made by economists who were familiar with our business leadership – their inspir ations , beliefs , sub ter fu ges , and ration alizations .
their views could never be submitted to a scholarly journal and evaluated the way a new medical procedure is .
there is no established scientific procedure that could prove their validity .
of course , economics is in many ways a science , and the work of our scholars and their computer models really does matter .
but , as the economist ed win r. a. sel ig man put it in 18 89 , “ economics is a social science , i.e. , it is an ethical and therefore an historical sci enc e …. it is not a natural science , and therefore not an exact or purely abstract science . ”
to me , and no doubt to the other pan el ists , part of the process of pursuing the in exact aspects of economics is speaking honestly to the broader public , looking them in the eye , learning from them , reading the emails they send , and then searching one ’ s soul to decide whether one ’ s favored theory is really close to the truth .
a ph ant om recovery ?
one camp argued that the recession in the united states would be v- shaped – short and shallow . it would last only eight months , like the two previous recessions of 199 0- 1991 and 2001 , and the world would decou ple from the us contraction .
others , including me , argued that , given the excesses of private-sector leverage ( in households , financial institutions , and corporate firms ) , this would be a u- shaped recession – long and deep .
it would last about 24 months , and the world would not decou ple from the us contraction .
today , 20 months into the us recession – a recession that became global in the summer of 2008 with a massive re- cou pling – the v- shaped decoupling view is out the window . this is the worst us and global recession in 60 years .
if the us recession were – as most likely - to be over at the end of the year , as is likely , it will have been three times as long and about f ives times as deep – in term of the cumulative decline in output – as the previous two .
today ’ s consensus among economists is that the recession is already over , that the us and global economy will rapidly return to growth , and that there is no risk of a relap se .
unfortunately , this new consensus could be as wrong now as the defenders of the v- shaped scenario were for the past three years .
data from the us – rising unemployment , falling household consumption , still declining industrial production , and a weak housing market – suggest that america ’ s recession is not over yet .
a similar analysis of many other advanced economies suggests that , as in the us , the bottom is quite close but it has not yet been reached .
most emerging economies may be returning to growth , but they are performing well below their potential .
moreover , for a number of reasons , growth in the advanced economies is likely to remain anemic and well below trend for at least a couple of years .
the first reason is likely to create a long-term drag on growth : households need to deleverage and save more , which will constrain consumption for years .
second , the financial system – both banks and non- bank institutions – is severely damaged .
lack of robust credit growth will hamper private consumption and investment spending .
third , the corporate sector faces a glut of capacity , and a weak recovery of profitability is likely if growth is anemic and deflationary pressures still persist .
as a result , businesses are not likely to increase capital spending .
fourth , the re- leveraging of the public sector through large fiscal deficits and debt accumulation risks crowding out a recovery in private-sector spending .
the effects of the policy stimulus , moreover , will f iz z le out by early next year , requiring greater private demand to support continued growth .
domestic private demand , especially consumption , is now weak or falling in over- spending countries ( the us , the united kingdom , spain , ireland , australia , new zealand , etc . ) , while not increasing fast enough in over- saving countries ( china , asia , germany , japan , etc . ) to compensate for the reduction in these countries ’ net exports .
thus , there is a global sl ack ening of aggregate demand relative to the glut of supply capacity , which will impede a robust global economic recovery .
first , the exit strategy from monetary and fiscal easing could be bot ched , because policymakers are dam ned if they do and dam ned if they don ’ t .
if they take their fiscal deficits ( and a potential monetization of these deficits ) seriously and raise taxes , reduce spending , and m op up excess liquidity , they could undermine the already weak recovery .
but if they maintain large budget deficits and continue to moneti ze them , at some point – after the current deflationary forces become more subdued – bond markets will revolt .
at this point , inflationary expectations will increase , long-term government bond yields will rise , and the recovery will be crowded out .
a second reason to fear a double-dip recession concerns the fact that oil , energy , and food prices may be rising faster than economic fundamentals warrant , and could be driven higher by the wall of liquidity chasing assets , as well as by speculative demand .
last year , oil at $ 1 45 a barrel was a tipping point for the global economy , as it created a major income shock for the us , europe , japan , china , india , and other oil- importing economies .
the global economy , barely rising from its knees , could not withstand the contractionary shock if similar speculative forces were to drive oil rapidly towards $ 100 a barrel .
so the end of this severe global recession will be closer at the end of this year than it is now , the recovery will be anemic rather than robust in advanced economies , and there is a rising risk of a double-dip recession .
the recent market rallies in stocks , commodities , and credit may have gotten ahead of the improvement in the real economy .
if so , a correction can not be too far behind .
a pivot to the people
princeton – on february 1 , the united nations security council met to consider the arab league ’ s proposal to end the violence in syria .
secretary of state hillary clinton represented the united states .
mid way through her remarks , she began speaking not to the syrian ambassador , who was in the room , or even the syrian government , but directly to the syrian people .
she said that change in syria would require syrians of every faith and ethnicity to work together , protecting and respecting the rights of minorities .
addressing those minorities , she continued : “ we do hear your fears , and we do honor your aspirations .
do not let the current regime exploit them to extend this crisis . ”
she told syria ’ s business , military , and other leaders that they must recognize that their futures lie with the state , not with the regime .
“ syria belongs to its 23 million citizens , not to one man or his family . ”
speaking directly to citizens – seeing a country ’ s people , as well as its government – is not just a rhetorical device .
while many foreign-policy pundits have focused on the us “ pivot to asia , ” clinton has also executed a less- publicized , but no less important , pivot to the people .
she has introduced policies , programs , and institutional reforms designed to support government- to- society and socie ty- to- society diplomacy , alongside traditional government- to- government relations .
these initiatives do not get headlines , but they will gradually transform much of american foreign policy .
in january , the state department unveiled a new “ super- office ” of civilian security , democracy , and human rights , under the leadership of under- secretary mar ia o ter o .
the office brings together agencies that focus on international law enforcement , counter-terrorism , and reconstruction and stabilization with those charged with advancing democracy , human rights , and humanitarian assistance to refugees and migrants .
o ter o explains the logic behind the initiative in terms of “ protecting individuals . ”
that , in turn , requires “ not just engaging state to state , ” but also working “ with players and actors outside of the traditional [ channels ] we ’ ve engaged in . ”
viewed from this perspective , countering terrorism includes rebu tting terrorist propaganda with a strategic communications campaign .
countering nar co- gang violence includes working with mexican telecommunications mo gul carlos slim to develop tools that allow ordinary citizens to report violence anonym ously by text message and enable police to map the results .
on a country- by- country basis , piv oting to the people means engaging with egypt ’ s bloggers as well as with the ruling supreme council of the armed forces ; conven ing young entrepreneurs in tunisia , algeria , and morocco and connecting them to funding and ment oring ; and using social media in russia to re but government efforts to s me ar the us ambassador .
and , working at an official level , it means co- sponsor ing with brazil the open government partnership , which brings together governments committed to increasing transparency , accountability , and citizen participation , and uses mutual peer pressure and open reporting to hold them to their commitments .
thinking about countries in these comprehensive terms also provides a different strategic perspective .
clinton has created a raft of new positions at the state department to spur outreach to different social segments .
the strategies and programs developed by the ambassador for global women ’ s issues , the special adviser for global youth issues , the senior adviser for civil society and emerging democracies , the special representative for outreach to muslim communities , the special representative for global partnerships , and the special representative for commercial and business affairs often present a very different face of the us .
as a result , clinton has launched an actual strategic dialogue with civil society .
for example , ambassador mel anne ver ve er has attended more than 1,000 events around the world focused on empowering women in areas ranging from peace negotiations to farming .
similarly , she has launched programs such as m women , designed to expand and support mobile technology that increases women ’ s independence , security , and access to health care and vital knowledge .
the office of global youth affairs is building a local youth council at every us embassy around the world , to advise and help to implement embassy programming aimed at local youth .
much of the programming aimed at youth , women , entrepreneurs , diaspor as , technolog ists , and other social groups is partly funded and conducted by the private sector .
indeed , the obama administration ’ s national security strategy mentions “ public-private partnerships ” more than 30 times .
clinton created the global partnership initiative to build as many coalitions , networks , and partnerships as possible with corporations , foundations , ngos , universities , and other civic organizations .
here , the pivot to the people includes the american people : the dynamism , creativity , and resources of american business and non-profit organizations already engaged around the world .
one priv at el y- funded initiative spearheaded by the state department will send 300 dog wood trees to japan this spring , to be planted in the tsunam i- affected region and in tokyo to express the american people ’ s support for the japanese people ; another will send english teachers throughout southeast asia .
after participating in the friends of syria conference in tun is , clinton convened a town hall meeting with tunisian youth .
in her opening remarks , she told her audience that “ young people are at the heart of today ’ s great strategic opportunities and challeng es . ” speaking about her lifetime efforts to put “ women ’ s empowerment on the international agenda , ” she added , “ it ’ s time to put youth empowerment there as well . ”
the implications of all of this activity , which clinton calls “ twenty-first-century statecraft , ” are profound .
from now on , us diplomatic relations with other countries will engage directly with their people and connect them to the american people as much as possible .
from the perspective of us diplomats , the people of every country stand on the same footing as their government .
that assumption is the heart of democracy ; it is a revolution for diplomacy .
a planet for all apes
melbourne – two new movies released this month – one a sci ence- fiction block bu ster , the other a revealing documentary – raise the issue of our relations with our closest non- human relatives , the great apes . both dram ati ze insights and lessons that should not be ignored .
ru per t wy at t ’ s rise of the planet of the apes is the seventh film in a series based on pier re bou le ’ s 1963 novel , planet of the apes , about a world populated by highly intelligent sim ians . publicity for the new film claims that it is “ the first li ve- action film in the history of movies to star , and be told from the point of view of , a senti ent animal . ”
yet no live apes were used .
instead , “ performance capture technology , ” originally invented for the movie av at ar , enables a human actor , and y ser kis , to play the role of the chimpanze e ca es ar , not by d ressing in a chim p suit , but by having every gesture and fac ial movement , even the tw it ch of an eye bro w , transformed into the movement of an ap e .
when i spoke with wy at t last month , he acknowledged that there were practical reasons for not using real apes in his movie .
but he also understood the ethical issue .
“ there are things i didn ’ t want to be involved in , ” he told me . “ to get apes to do anything you want them to do , you have to dominate them ; you have to manipulate them into performing .
that ’ s explo itative . ”
the central human character , will ro d man ( played by james franco ) , is a scientist seeking a cure for alzhe imer ’ s disease who experiments on apes .
many films would have glor ified a scientist seeking such a goal , and treated the use of animals for that purpose as obviously justified .
rise of the planet of the apes , however , portr ays ro d man as , in franco ’ s words , “ a cold , isolated person . ”
only when ro d man ’ s superi ors cancel his experiments and he takes home ca es ar , an infant chimpanze e , does the scientist begin to care about others .
the plot then takes another turn when ca es ar becomes too big and aggressive to live in a human home , and is taken to what is supposed to be a prim ate sanctuary , but is in fact a dumping ground for unwanted apes , run by humans who display cruelty to the captive animals .
as far as the treatment of apes is concerned , much of the film is firmly grounded in reality , as a viewing of project n im , a documentary based on elizabeth h ess ’ s book n im chimp sky : the chim p who would be human , clearly demonstrates .
n im was born in 1973 , in a prim ate research facility in ok la hom a , and was taken from his mother when he was only ten days old , to be used in a sign - language experiment .
re ared as part of a human family , he learned to use more than 100 signs from american sign language , the language used by deaf americans .
but he was taken from his first human family and handed over to other teachers with whom he did not have the same kind of bond .
he grew stronger and more aggressive and began b iting his teachers .
her bert terr ace , the columbia university psych ologist who was directing the project , decided to end it and sent n im back to the prim ate facility in ok la hom a .
there , the p am per ed chimpanze e – who , when asked to sort photos of humans and apes , put his own photo among the humans – was locked in a cage with other chim ps .
he demonstrated his view of that situation by signing “ out ” to passing humans .
n im suffered various other vic is situ des – and narrowly escaped being infected with he pati tis as part of a medical experiment – until he was eventually released to an animal sanctuary , where he died in 2000 .
in 1993 , pa ola cav ali er i and i founded the great ap e project , an organization dedicated to the idea of recognizing that great apes have a moral status be fitting their nature as self- aware beings who are capable of thought and have rich and deep emotional lives .
at a minimum , they should have the rights to life , liberty , and protection from torture that we grant to all members of our own species , regardless of their intellectual abilities .
in the intervening years , that idea has made steady progress .
since 2010 , the european union has essentially banned the use of great apes in experiments .
experiments on great apes are now either banned or severely restricted in new zealand , australia , and japan .
in the united states , a bipartisan group of members of congress is supporting legislation to end the use of chimpanze es in invasive research .
in spain in 2008 , a parliamentary resolution urged the government to grant some basic legal rights to great apes , but the spanish government has yet to implement it .
perhaps the release of these two very different films will lead to a further push to bring great apes within the circle of beings with moral and legal rights .
in that way , our closest relatives could serve to bridge the moral gulf that we have du g between ourselves and other animals .
a “ portfolio ” approach to climate change
the world has tried with little success to cut carbon emissions under the kyoto protocol .
the enormous effort expend ed to bring the protocol into force nonetheless indicates how much work will be required to produce the next treaty , due to be agreed in copenhagen in december 2009 .
campaigners will push for tough and far-reaching policies , but strong resistance will continue from countries concerned about their economic vitality .
the new negotiations will have one advantage over the earlier efforts , because governments now understand the need for a portfolio of adaptation , mitigation , and research efforts .
new research that my colleagues and i undertook for the copenhagen consensus center in denmark explor es the effectiveness of different responses to this global challenge , but it strongly supports the portfolio approach for several reasons .
we also know that the impact of climate change will not be evenly distributed across the globe .
in some areas , modestly warmer temperatures could produce higher crop yields if associated changes in precip itation patterns are not adverse and/or irrigation remains viable .
even with 0. 6 °c warming , however , africa and south asia will experience almost immediate reductions in the viability of many crops and , eventually , increased vulnerability to infectious disease .
these impacts will clearly hit the planet ’ s worst- off inhabitants hardest : the “ bottom billion ” who already bear the he avi est burden of disease , poverty , conflict and malnutrition .
ensuring that adaptive capacity is expanded and exploited where it is most needed is thus a key challenge .
long-term development may give countries more capacity to sof ten the impact of climate change on the environment and citizens ’ health , but in the meantime the planet ’ s poorest people will need help from the rich .
our analysis investigated , for example , the merits of more targeted policies for the near term : purchasing mosquit o- resistant bed nets and oral re- hydr ation malaria therapy for children in the poorest nations affected by climate change . the goal was to deal aggressively and pro actively with some of the marginal health impacts of global warming .
benefits would appear almost immediately , but would dissip ate over time as economies developed .
even as development improves conditions , however , reducing carbon emissions would become increasingly important over the longer term as the impact of climate change become more severe .
since the effects of climate change have been observed in many areas around the world , thinking about mitigation makes sense everywhere .
but we found that mitigation alone did not meet a standard cost-benefit test .
we allowed specified annual costs of climate policy to grow in proportion with global gdp through 2100 from an initial annual benchmark of $ 18 billion .
the discounted cost of the resulting stream of fixed annual costs totaled $ 800 billion , but damages avoided by this approach amounted to a discounted value of only $ 6 85 billion .
the copenhagen consensus study also examined a portfolio option of the sort heralded by the united nations ’ intergovernmental panel on climate change .
we allocated $ 50 billion to research into greener technology , so that only $ 750 billion could be absorbed by the economic cost of adaptation and mitigation .
the gap between the cost of carbon- free and carbon- emitting technology fell , and the taxes designed to mitigate emissions became more effective .
as a result , the research and development program essentially paid for itself , and total discounted benefits for the $ 800 billion investment climbed to more than $ 2.1 trillion .
ensuring that research and development is part of the world ’ s climate change response portfolio would make mitigation efforts more efficient and significantly enhance their ability to reduce carbon emissions over the next century .
but these favorable net benefits reflect very conservative assumptions regarding the timing of emissions reductions and when the developing world would “ come on board . ”
optim izing investment in the portfolio over time would , for example , increase the discounted benefits by more than a factor of three .
expected benefits would increase further if we included the chance that potentially higher climate sensitivities would exacerbate damages , even though doing so would require including similarly plausible lower climate sensitivities , which would push in the opposite direction .
fighting climate change can be a sound investment , even though neither mitigation nor adaptation alone will be enough to “ solve ” the problem .
to make a real difference , especially in the near term , the world must combine mitigation and adaptation with increased research and development into carbon- saving and sequ est ering technology , which in turn requires designing and exploiting market-based incentives .
a post- nuclear euro-atlantic security order
washington , dc – as we enter 2011 , the euro-atlantic region is a study in strategic contrasts .
over the past 20 years , no geo- political space has undergone as dramatic a transformation as that between the atlantic and the ur als .
in our life times , we have seen a welcome change from the dark est days of the cold war , when a devastating conventional and nuclear war in europe was a real possibility , to a new era in which no state faces this type of existential threat .
but , despite these positive developments , the two largest powers in the region – the united states and russia – each still possesses thousands of nuclear weapons , accounting for more than 90 % of the world ’ s nuclear inventory .
many of these weapons remain deployed or designed for use within the euro-atlantic region .
the continuing existence of large strategic nuclear forces deployed on high alert , and of tactical nuclear weapons deployed in certain nato states and russia , creates a risk of accidental , un authorized , or mistaken use , and of terrorist groups acquiring these assets .
so security vigil ance is essential .
to meet this challenge , the three of us – building on the action plan adopted by consensus at the 2010 non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) review conference – have endorsed a series of urgent , practical steps towards the long-term goal of a world free of nuclear weapons .
these include :
· increasing assured warning and decision times for the launch of nuclear-armed ballistic missiles ;
· developing cooperative missile-defense and early- warning systems ;
· ensuring the highest possible standards of security for nuclear weapons and materials ;
· beginning a dialogue on tactical nuclear weapons involving russia , the us , and nato ;
· adopting a process to bring the comprehensive test ban treaty into effect ;
· developing international and multilateral approaches to manage the risks of fuel production for civilian nuclear power ; and
· further reductions in us and russian nuclear forces .
as former us secretary of state george p . sh ul tz , former us secretary of defense william j. per ry , former us secretary of state henry a. kissinger , and former us senator sam n un n put it in 2007 , “ without the bold vision [ of a nuclear weapon s- free world ] , the actions will not be perceived as fair or urgent .
without the actions , the vision will not be perceived as realistic or possible . ”
perhaps the most crucial step toward realizing this vision is to re double our efforts to resolve regional confrontations and conflicts that give rise to new nuclear powers .
the great swath of states stretching from north america across europe through russia has a vital role to play in stabilizing an increasingly fragmented and stressed international order .
these states can play this role , however , only if first they transform this geographic space into a genuinely inclusive and vibrant security community .
failing that ( and we are failing today ) the euro-atlantic states and their organizations will settle for sub optimal – and too often utterly inadequate – responses to the twenty-first century ’ s security challenges , including the threat of nuclear proliferation .
lately , several national leaders , including the russian and us presidents and nato secretary-general , have embraced the idea of a euro-atlantic security community , and begun stres sing the importance of fash ioning a stronger and more inclusive european security order .
the timing could not be better , as the euro-atlantic family has entered a critical period .
on november 19 - 20 , nato heads of states approved a new “ strategic concept ” to guide the organization for the next decade at the same time russian president d. medvedev and his nato counterparts issued a joint statement , endorsing the first joint review of 2 1st century common security challenges and deciding to resume threat missile def ence cooperation .
two weeks later , the organization for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) heads of state assembled in ast ana , kazakhstan , to help shape the osce ’ s next stage of development .
joint action on nuclear- threat reduction must be a critical element in moving the euro-atlantic nations toward a level of stability and strength and allow them to exercise badly needed global leadership .
achieving a genuinely collaborative approach to missile-defense matters will address a common threat and help remove mis giv ings that are blocking progress toward a common security space .
similarly , the euro-atlantic states can mobilize behind efforts to strengthen the international atomic energy agency ’ s safeguards system , which ensures the non- diversion of peaceful nuclear programs , in order to foster cooperation on countering the threat of nuclear terrorism , and to develop new mechanisms to protect jointly critical infrastructure from cyber attack .
such actions are crucial to these states ’ national security and global efforts to mitigate threats .
pursuing arrangements that increase warning and decision-making time for all countries in the euro-atlantic region would introduce stability into the nato- russia relationship .
adjustments in operational doctrine , as applied to strategic , tactical , and conventional forces , would constitute a giant step toward ending the relationship ’ s militarized framework .
this is only a partial list of what must be done if governments are serious about building a stronger , inclusive european security order , one where the roles and risks of nuclear weapons are reduced , and ultimately eliminated .
the three of us are working with a distinguished group from all corners of the euro-atlantic region to develop these and other concrete steps that are essential to creating a genuine security community , including its economic , energy , and environmental dimensions .
appeasement revis ited
i viv idly remember the slightly lu dic rous , slightly ris qu é , and somewhat dist ressing predicament in which western diplomats in prague found themselves during the cold war .
they regularly needed to resolve the delicate issue of whether to invite to their embassy celebrations various charter 77 signatories , human rights activists , critics of the communist regime , displaced politicians , or even banned writers , scholars , and journalists – people with whom the diplomats were generally friends .
sometimes we dissidents were not invited , but received an apology , and sometimes we were invited , but did not accept the invitation so as not to complicate the lives of our courageous diplomat friends .
or we were invited to come at an earlier hour in the hope that we would leave before the official representatives arrived , which sometimes worked and sometimes didn ’ t .
when it didn ’ t , either the official representatives left in protest at our presence , or we left hur ri edly , or we all pre tended not to notice each other , or – albeit on rare occasions – we started to con verse with each other , which frequently were the only moments of dialogue between the regime and the opposition ( not counting our cour th ouse encounters ) .
this all happened when the iron curtain divided europe – and the world – into opposing camps .
western diplomats had their countries ’ economic interests to consider , but , unlike the soviet side , they took seriously the idea of “ dissidents or trade . ”
i can not recall any occasion at that time when the west or any of its organizations ( nato , the european community , etc . ) issued some public appeal , recommendation , or edict stating that some specific group of independ ent ly- minded people – however defined – were not to be invited to diplomatic parties , celebrations , or rec ep tions .
but today this is happening .
one of the strongest and most powerful democratic institutions in the world – the european union – has no qual ms in making a public promise to the cuban dictatorship that it will re- institute diplomatic apartheid .
the eu ’ s emb assi es in ha vana will now craft their guest lists in accordance with the cuban government ’ s wishes .
the short sigh tedness of socialist prime minister josé z ap ater o of spain has prevailed .
try to imagine what will happen : at each european embassy , someone will be appointed to screen the list , name by name , and assess whether and to what extent the persons in question behave freely or speak out freely in public , to what extent they criticize the regime , or even whether they are former political prisoners .
lists will be shor tened and del e tions made , and this will frequently entail eliminating even good personal friends of the diplomats in charge of the screening , people whom they have given various forms of intellectual , political , or material assistance .
it will be even worse if the eu countries try to mask their screening activities by inviting only diplomats to embassy celebrations in cuba .
i can hardly think of a better way for the eu to dis honor the noble ideals of freedom , equality , and human rights that the union esp ous es – indeed , principles that it reiter ates in its constitutional agreement .
to protect european corporations ’ profits from their ha vana hotels , the union will cease inviting open -minded people to eu emb assi es , and we will de duce who they are from the expression on the face of the dictator and his associates .
it is hard to imagine a more sham eful deal .
cuba ’ s dissidents will , of course , happily do without western co ck tail parties and pol ite conversation at rec ep tions .
this persecution will admittedly aggravate their difficult struggle , but they will naturally survive it .
the question is whether the eu will survive it .
today , the eu is d ancing to fidel ’ s tune .
that means that tomorrow it could bid for contracts to build missile bases on the coast of the people ’ s republic of china . the following day it could allow its decisions on chechnya to be dictated by russian president vladimir putin ’ s advisers .
then , for some unknown reason , it could make its assistance to africa conditional on frater nal ties with the worst african dictators .
where will it end ?
the release of milosevic ?
denying a visa to russian human rights activist serge y ko val y ov ?
an apology to saddam hussein ?
it is suicidal for the eu to draw on europe ’ s worst political traditions , the common denom in ator of which is the idea that evil must be appe ased and that the best way to achieve peace is through indifference to the freedom of others .
just the opposite is true : such policies expose an indifference to one ’ s own freedom and pave the way for war .
after all , europe is uniting in order to defend its freedom and values , not to sacrifice them to the ideal of harmonious coexistence with dictators and thus risk gradual infiltr ation of its soul by the anti-democratic mindset .
i firmly believe that the new members of the eu will not forget their experience of totalitarianism and non-violent opposition to evil , and that that experience will be reflected in how they behave in eu bodies .
indeed , this could be the best contribution they can make to the common spiritual , moral , and political foundations of a united europe .
apple versus the g- men
virginia beach – apple ’ s refusal to unlock the i phone linked to the extremist attack in san ber nar d ino , california , in december has triggered a public battle with the us justice department and the fbi – a dispute with far-reaching implications for data privacy worldwide .
but the case is not as straightforward as it seems .
speaking as someone with a long presence in the us intelligence community , i believe that the fbi has already gained access to sy ed r iz wan far o ok ’ s i phone .
it is an older apple model using technology that , in other contexts , has already been compromised .
here ’ s another strange thing about the fbi ’ s demand of apple : why would the united states government sto op to a public debate on this issue ?
the fbi is the country ’ s most powerful law-enforcement organization , and apple will ultimately be forced to comply with its request .
( full disclosure : i own apple stock . )
the fbi has already said that this is not about just one phone .
but few understand that this is not a simple matter of opposing interests : public safety versus an individual ’ s right to privacy .
for a better understanding of the fbi ’ s demand , we need to look at apple ’ s latest line of phones , which differ from far o ok ’ s in a fundamental respect : they contain a new chip that was designed using a technique developed by the us national security agency and then shared with the israelis .
that technology is now finding its way into apple products via the company ’ s israeli ch ip - design division .
each of the new chips has a unique signature used for en cryp tion , which is coupled with its user ’ s fin ger print .
without that signature , it is impossible to dec r yp t an apple phone without physical access to the intern als of its chip – which is itself im penetr able .
that en cryp tion also applies to any information sent by the phone to a pa ired service , like apple ’ s messages system .
in the past , immediate access to teleph ony devices has been irrelevant to the fbi , because the authorities had unfettered access to communications as they traveled to and from a phone .
but , with its new security improvements , apple is now closing that door .
the company is not simply denying new access ; it will soon take away existing access .
this bo thers the fbi , because its job is to collect evidence .
interestingly , the n sa has taken a different stance .
back doors have been acknowledged as dangerous by n sa director admir al mike rog ers , who says that “ en cryp tion is found ational to the future . ”
when access to private communications is possible , anyone can use it for any purpose .
this complic ates the fbi ’ s argument about public safety .
for example , do we really want a terrorist group to be capable of acc essing a president ’ s or prime minister ’ s private information ?
the chinese authorities , for example , would be del ighted if apple compli ed with the fbi ’ s request .
they have been asking apple for a back door for years .
apple ’ s current stand could cause it to suffer in the massive chinese market – or profit immensely if it comp lies .
the fbi ’ s request signals a new attempt at control .
this is an organization that usually delivers its requests under seal , meaning they remain secret .
in this case , the fbi took the unusual step of making its demand public , so as to push the issue into the press by hitting the hot bu tton of “ terrorism . ”
the fbi ’ s intent , it seems , is to prompt lawmakers to respond to public outrage .
most legal arguments against “ unlocking ” this particular phone cite the constitutionally protected right to free speech .
but a better parallel is the right to gun ownership in the us and the constitutional provisions that support it .
in the past , technology in the us was primarily developed in a military context and justified in the service of war , but also to maintain civil order .
at the end of the eighteenth century , the apo the osis of that technology was the fire arm .
no other technology was as apt , so the us constitution specified that it would not be used to curtail speech ( first amendment ) or be denied to the citizen ry ( second amendment ) , and that government holders of fire arms could not be placed in citizens ’ homes ( third amendment ) .
the nin th and tenth amendments pros cr ibe the use of fire arms to compromise other implicit rights as they may become apparent .
today ’ s most powerful technologies relate to information concerning our thoughts , associations , and bodies .
if the fram ers of the us constitution were alive today and as well educated as they were then , the bill of rights would likely be focused on balancing access to information to ensure that the government remains within b ounds .
with this public request from the fbi , the balance between people and policing is being called into question .
as the debate unfol ds , we need to consider whether it makes sense , legally or as a matter of policy , for everyone – law enforcement , hackers , and terrorists – to be able to possess or access information .
the apple case will affect the balance of inform ational power , and the scales currently are weighted against the citizen .
resolving the case requires a more considered response from us politicians than hyster ical twee ting .
in view of the modern power of information , they must think carefully about the legal ramifications of the fbi ’ s demand .
realism on north korea
berlin – the world ’ s task in addressing north korea ’ s sab er rattling is made no easier by the fact that it confronts an impoverished and effectively defeated country .
on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is most necessary .
the genius of the h abs burg empire ’ s prince k l em ens von met ter n ich in framing a new international order after the napole onic wars was that he did not push a defeated france into a corner .
although met ter n ich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , he restored france ’ s pre war frontiers .
by contrast , as henry kissinger has argued , the victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor provide it with incentives to accept the ver sa illes treaty .
instead , they imposed harsh terms , hoping to weaken germany permanently .
we know how that plan ended .
john f. kennedy was in the met ter n ich mold .
kennedy ’ s pragmatism prevented world war iii .
sadly , north korea has not received such far- sighted states manship .
faced with the north ’ s dangerous nuclear game , we should ask what would have happened if , over the last 20 some years , the north korea problem had been approached with the sag acity of met ter n ich and kennedy .
of course , north korea is not early- nineteenth century france or the ussr of 1962 .
in the eyes of western ( including japanese ) political leaders , it has never amounted to more than a small , fringe country whose economic failings made it appear to be poised perpe tually on the edge of self- destruction .
for the most part , world leaders preferred not to be bothered with north korea , and so reacted in an ad hoc way whenever it created a security problem .
but now , following the north ’ s recent nuclear tests , and given its improving ball istic - missile capabilities , that approach is no longer tenable .
perhaps the best chance to address the problem at an earlier stage was immediately after the soviet union ’ s collapse in 1991 .
back then , kim il- sung – the north ’ s founder – faced economic collapse , dimin ution of his conventional military forces , and diplomatic isolation .
in interviews with as a hi shim b un and the washington times in march and april 1992 , kim clearly expressed a wish to establish diplomatic relations with the us .
but us and south korean leaders were not ready to accommodate kim ’ s over ture .
their received ideas about north korea prevented them from recognizing a fast- changing political reality .
another opportunity was missed later in the decade .
if north korea had reciproc ated in a timely manner following us envoy william per ry ’ s visit to pyongyang in may 1999 , president bill clinton ’ s policy of engagement with the north might have been upgraded to a push for normalization of diplomatic relations .
instead , the north pro cr ast inated , sending vice marshall jo my ong- ro k to the us only in october 2000 , near the end of clinton ’ s presidency .
a few months later , newly elected president george w. bush reversed clinton ’ s north korea policy .
i still recall the difficulty that i faced , as south korea ’ s foreign minister , in convincing bush administration policymakers to negotiate with north korea instead of merely applying pressure and waiting for the north to capit ulate .
back then , north korea was re starting its y ong by on nuclear facility and producing plutonium , thus strengthening its bargaining position vis-à-vis the us .
precious time was squandered before north korea ’ s first nuclear test in 2006 .
though bush shifted his policy toward bilateral negotiations with the north a few months later , the kim regime had become much more obst inate .
indeed , north korea ’ s behavior has since become even more volatile .
its sinking of the south korean cor ve tte che on an and the shel ling of ye on p ye ong island in 2010 were unprecedented , and raised inter-korean tensions to their highest level in decades .
today , following the north ’ s third nuclear test , we seem to have entered the most precarious stage yet , with the regime declaring that it will never surrender its nuclear option .
so , what should be done ?
the first option should be deterrence of further aggression through diplomacy .
but achieving diplomatic deterrence will depend on china ’ s cooperation , and this requires that china ’ s vital national-security interests be recognized .
china fears not only the social and economic consequences of a north korean implosion , but also the strategic consequences of reunification – in particular , that the us military , through its alliance with south korea , would gain access to territory on its border .
a mere statement by the us that it has no intention to press this military advantage will not assu age china ’ s fears .
chinese leaders recall that the us promised soviet president mikhail gorbachev that german reunification and democratic transition in eastern europe would not mean east ward expansion of nato .
only after its security is assured will china free itself from complicity in north korean brinkmanship and be better able to control the north ’ s behavior .
but chinese cooperation , though necessary , will not resolve the north korea problem on its own .
a comprehensive approach must recognize the speed of internal change , especially in the minds of ordinary north koreans .
simply put , north koreans are not as isolated as they once were , and have a growing appreciation of their impover ishment , owing primarily to greater trade and closer connections with booming china .
this internal change needs to be encouraged , because it will prove more effective than external pressure in influencing the regime ’ s behavior .
but such encouragement must be undertaken in ways that do not incite the north ’ s fears of being destroyed by indirect means . south korean president park geun-hye ’ s recent proposal to provide humanitarian assistance despite the recent spike in tension , is a start in the right direction .
the lives of ordinary north koreans matter as much as the security of north korea ’ s neighbors .
a comprehensive approach is required – one that focuses as much on the human dimension as on the security dimension .
it remains to be seen whether this approach requires more foresight and courage than today ’ s political leaders in south korea , the west , and china can muster .
a president in the doc k
new york – in a way , the sti r ar oused by the decision by the international criminal court ( icc ) to indic t sudan ’ s president om ar al- bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity in darfur is a surprise .
after all , the court has no means of its own to arrest anyone in sudan , much less a head of state who commands the country ’ s armed forces .
nor is there any prospect that someone else will intervene in sudan to make an arrest .
while the icc ’ s chief prosecutor , lu is mor en o- oc amp o , expres ses confidence that bashir will be brought to justice , it is unclear how this will happen .
but it could .
despite the icc ’ s seeming power lessness , many governments ’ leaders are engaged in str en uous efforts to block the indictment .
they do not seem concerned that the charges are unfair ; rather , they appear to be demonstrating solidarity with a fellow head of state .
those denouncing the attempt to put bashir on trial include the large blocs of countries that are members of the organization of the islamic conference and the african union , together with such powerful states as china and russia .
one can only guess whether some of those joining this effort are motivated by concern that they themselves may some day face charges like those leveled at bashir by the icc judges .
though bashir may be able to avoid arrest simply by limiting his international travel , the com motion provoked by the indictment is not irrational .
the charges against him have a powerful stigm ati zing effect .
the fact that a panel of judges representing the 10 8 governments that are parties to the icc has accused bashir of principal responsibility for the crimes committed in darfur during the past six years undermines the legitimacy of his continued rule .
those crimes have caused more than 300,000 deaths , and have forcibly displaced at least another 2.7 million people .
even if bashir ’ s fellow heads of state succeed in their effort to persuade the united nations security council to def er prosecution – which is highly unlikely – the charges will continue to hang over bashir ’ s head unless and until he stands trial .
in 1999 , an international criminal tribunal indicted another sitting head of state , slobodan milosevic of the federal republic of yugoslavia .
though he seemed secure at the time , a year and a half later he was sent to the hague to stand trial .
similarly , in 2003 , an international criminal tribunal indicted liberia ’ s then president , charles taylor .
he had to flee liberia a few months later and initially received asylum in nigeria , but is now on trial in the hague .
when those indic tments were issued , no one could have predicted how events would unfold ; in retrospect , it is evident that the indic tments ’ delegitim izing effects had important consequences .
the court is still in its inf ancy , and antagon izing the many government leaders expressing solidarity with him could jeopardize its future .
yet it should be recognized that the court ’ s personnel are carrying out their duties .
the treaty establishing the icc explicitly states that heads of state do not enjoy immunity .
and the security council referred the darfur case to the court in 2005 .
this was an investigation that had to be conducted , and those found to have the highest level of responsibility for the crimes had to be indicted .
many of those now objec ting to the prosecution of bashir participated in the decisions leading to the indictment .
if the icc ’ s indictment now causes them discomfort , that is only because they did not anticipate that the court would carry out the responsibilities that they themselves assigned to it .
a prim er for pandemics
a few times each year , the world is reminded that a pandemic threat is im man ent .
in 2003 , it was s ars .
today , it is a potential avian virus similar to the one that killed 30 million people after 1914 .
“ bird flu ” has already shown that it can jump from f ow l to humans , and now even to c ats , which indicates that it might be the next global killer .
but there are many other potential pandemics , and many are not even viruses .
bacteria , pri ons , paras ites , and even environmental factors could suddenly change in a way that sl ays us .
it is widely predicted that when this happens , the economic and human losses will exceed that of any previous war .
indeed , it is hum bling to remember that some of history ’ s most deadly inv asions were carried out by single- cell organisms , such as cholera , bu bon ic plague , and tuberculosis .
countries with the resources to do so are making resistance plans against pandemics – limited strategies that would protect their own citizens .
most governments are hoping that early detection will make containment possible .
containment depends heavily on vaccines , but vaccines are only part of the answer .
while they are a good defense against many viruses , each vaccine is highly specific to the threat .
viruses are paras ites to cells , and each virus attacks a particular type of cell .
the virus is shaped so that it can dr ill into a particular feature of that cell and inject parts of itself inside , confusing the cell into making more viruses and destroying itself in the process .
with their very specific forms , the most effective anti- viral vaccines must be designed for a narrow range of factors .
sometimes the tailored nature of viruses works in our favor .
for example , they usually find it difficult to jump between species , because they would have to change their structure .
but if large numbers of a host – say , birds – encounter a great number of people , eventually the virus will find a way to prosper in a new type of cell .
birds are the greatest concern today only because the spread is easy to see .
but aids jumped from mon keys and several types of flu jumped from sw ine .
deadly mutations of any kind need to be identified urgently , so that an effective vaccine can be designed before the strain becomes comfortable in the human body .
this is even more worrying when you realize that scientists should also be monitoring bacteria , pri ons , and paras ites .
there are more bacteria than any other life form .
many live harm lessly in our bodies and perform useful functions .
they evolve and adapt easily , which means that they learn to si de step our drugs over time .
bacteria should be checked for two types of mutation : adaptation by a hostile form that enables it to become super- immune to drugs , or a deadly mut ant strain that appears in one of the multitude of “ safe ” bacteria .
pri ons are a relatively new discovery .
they are made from proteins similar to those that the body uses during healthy operations , which means that they are able to fool the body ’ s tools into making more pri ons .
they have only recently been recognized as the cause of several infectious diseases , including mad cow disease and cre ut z feld t- jak ob  disease , which kill by crowding out healthy brain cells .
many nerve , respiratory and muscle diseases might also be caused by pri ons .
finally , paras ites , simple animals that inf ect us , are already classified as pandemics .
malaria afflic ts 300 million people and is the world ’ s biggest killer of children .
many paras ites are wor ms : ho ok wor m ( 800 million people infected ) , r ound wor m ( 1.5 billion ) , sch ist os om es ( 200 million ) , and the wor m that causes eleph anti asis ( 150 million ) .
there are also antagon ists that are currently ignored .
environmental chemicals and particul ates might warrant their own categories .
or consider comb inations of problems , such as these chemical infec tors mix ing with air borne poll ens , and apparently pushing up incid ences of asth ma .
new fun gal infections are even scar ier and might be harder to treat .
the bottom line is that we can ’ t predict where the threat will emerge , so we need a distributed , intelligent detection system .
in practical terms , how should it be built ?
“ detec tors ” would have to be expert enough to know when an ordin ary- looking symptom is actually an emergency .
they would be located everywhere , with an emphasis on vulnerable regions .
initial warning signs of a pandemic are most likely to appear in the developing world , but detection no des should be positioned in every country , with the least possible expense .
this is not as difficult as it sounds .
the key is to harness existing infrastructure .
medical infrastructure exists everywhere , in some form .
it also tends to be the least corrupt of institutions in regions where that is a problem .
medical centers and clinics would be expected to investigate the cause of ail ments in a large number of their patients , even in cases where the symptoms seem common .
a small amount of additional scientific expertise and lab equipment would need to be added to a public health system that serves ordinary needs .
enhancing existing resources would be effective for two reasons . first , illness is more likely to be reported in a city hospital than at a speci alist institute .
second , the investment would boost latent public health in that region .
rich countries could justify the expense in terms of the savings that would result from early detection of a major threat .
tropical clim ates and urban slums are humanity ’ s front line against pandemics , and they should be equipped properly .
public health is an important asset for any nation .
with so much at stake , it makes sense to place sent in els near every sw amp , city , public market , and farm yard on earth .
a prisoner ’ s christmas
luk yan iv sk a prison , kyiv – it has been said that there are no athe ists in a fo x hole .
here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no athe ists in prison , either .
when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrog ated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours without a break , and an authoritarian regime ’ s entire system of coercion , including its media , is trying to discredit and destroy you once and for all , pr ay er becomes the only intimate , tru sting , and reassuring conversation that one can have .
god , one re alizes , is one ’ s only friend and only available family , because – deprived even of access to a trusted pri est – there is no one else in whom to conf ide one ’ s worries and hopes .
in this season of love and family , the lon el iness of a prison cell is almost unbearable .
the gra y , dead silence of night ( guards peer in vo ye ur istically through a s lot in the door ) , the sudden , dis embodied shr ie ks of prisoners , shr ie ks of distress and rage , the distant ratt les and cl angs of prison bol ts : all make sleep impossible , or so re st less as to be a tor ment .
but what is strange is that your senses are not d ul led by this dead and dread ful world . on the contrary , they are ign ited by it : your mind is set free from mundane concerns to ponder the in estim able and your place within it – a freedom of spirit that is a truly unexpected gift this christmas season .
in the cell ’ s darkness , i gather strength and hope from the fact that god somehow seems so near to me here .
for where else would chris t be but with those who suffer and are persecuted ?
indeed , i have recently been reading di etr ich bon ho e ffer ’ s sub lim e and challenging letters from prison , in which he year ns for a chris t capable of offering mercy to a world , our world , then in the process of being mar ty red for a single man .
written in a cr amped , dan k , and pu tr id cell , where hope was meant to die before the body , bon ho e ffer crafted a book rich in faith , openness , possibility , and , yes , hope – even in humanity ’ s dark est hour .
one particular passage resonates with me as i contemplate ukraine ’ s plight . as he awaited his approaching execution by the nazis , bon ho e ffer wrote that , in prison , “ the go d lessness of the world is not ... conce aled but , rather , revealed , and is thus exposed to an unexpected light . ”
so i take some comfort this christmas in knowing that the go d lessness , in humanity , and crimin ality of the regime that is now ruling in kyiv is , at long last , being exposed to the world in a clear light .
its democratic posturing has been un masked as cynical political theater , its claim to desire a european future for ukraine ’ s people revealed to be a lie , and the rap ac iousness of its kle p tocr ats has been laid bare .
the regime ’ s contempt for the constitution and the rule of law is now undeniable , and that clarity is empowering .
more importantly , the suffering of ukraine ’ s people has also become more widely known , and we are no longer so alone in our plight .
allevi ating it has been embraced as a just cause across europe and around the world .
the everyday oppression , stifled media , and sha ke downs and ex tor tion of businesses for bribes all point to a mafia state on europe ’ s border .
now our european friends can no longer deny the smu g vil eness of the regime with which they are forced to deal .
and i am than k ful this christmas for being able to believe that democratic europe will not tolerate this state of affairs .
ukrainians will be strong knowing that they are not alone in their fight .
i do not pretend to be an expert on religious faith and spiritual values .
i am only a bel i ever who can not accept that our existence is the result of some fre ak cosm ic accident .
we are , i believe , part of a mysterious yet integral act , whose source , direction , and purpose , though difficult to grasp at times , does have meaning and purpose – even when one is confined behind prison bars .
it is within our power to recover or reinvigorate our freedoms and our societies , not by individual efforts , but by joining forces with lik emin ded people all over the world .
i know that we will manage this .
this christmas , i ask my family and friends everywhere not to worry about me .
as anna akh mat ov a , the great poe tic chron ic ler of stalin ’ s terror , said , “ i am alive in this grave . ”
indeed , i am more alive , i know , than the men who have imprisoned me here .
christmas is meant to mark the possibility of a new beginning for all men and women .
as bon ho e ffer affirmed with his last words : “ this is for me ... the beginning of life . ”
a private affair ?
can a public figure have a private life ?
recent events in three countries have highlighted the importance of this question .
in the french presidential election , both candidates tried to keep their domestic life separate from their campaign .
s é gol è ne royal is not married to françois hollande , the father of her four children .
when asked whether they were a couple , royal replied , “ our lives belong to us . ”
similarly , in response to rumors that president-elect nicholas sarkozy ’ s wife had left him , a spokes man for sarkozy said , “ that ’ s a private matter . ”
the french have a long tradition of respecting the privacy of their politicians ’ personal lives , and french public opinion is more broad -minded than in the united states , where an un wed mother of four would have no chance of being nominated for the presidency by a major party .
indeed , last month , rand all to bias , the top foreign aid adviser in the us state department , resigned after acknowledging that he had used an es cor t service described as providing “ high-end ero tic fantasy ” – although to bias said he only had a mass age .
in britain , lord john brow ne , the chief executive who transformed bp from a second- tier european oil company into a global giant , resigned after admitting he had lied in court about the circumstances in which he had met a gay compan ion ( apparently , he met him through a male es cor t agency ) .
in re signing , he said that he had always regarded his sexuality as a personal matter , and he was disappointed that a newspaper – the mail on sunday – had made it public .
candidates for public office , and those holding high administrative or corporate positions , should be judged on their policies and performance , not on private acts that are irrelevant to how well they carry out , or will carry out , their public duties .
sometimes , of course , the two overlap .
the mail on sunday and its sister paper , the daily mail , justified their publication of revelations by brow ne ’ s former compan ion on the grounds that they include allegations that brow ne had allowed him to use corporate resources for the benefit of his own private business .
the company denied that there was any substance to these allegations .
as the administr ator of the us agency for international development , to bias implemented the bush administration ’ s policy that requires organizations working against hiv/aids to condemn prostitu tion if they are to be eligible for us assistance .
that policy has been criticized for making it more difficult to assist sex workers who are at high risk of contracting and spreading hiv/aids .
arguably , the public has an interest in knowing if those who implement such policies are themselves paying for sexual services .
where there is no suggestion that a matter of personal morality has had an impact on the performance of a business executive or government official , we should respect that person ’ s privacy .
but what about candidates for political leadership ?
since politicians ask us to en trust them with sweeping powers , it can be argued that we should know as much as possible about their morality .
for example , we might reasonably ask whether they pay their fair share of taxes , or inqu ire about their charitable donations .
similarly , the revelation three years ago that the then- australian opposition leader and aspiring prime minister , mark la tham , had assa ulted a taxi driver and broken his arm in a dispute about a fare was relevant for those who believe that a nation ’ s leader should be slow to anger .
but does the legitimate interest in knowing more about a politician extend to details about personal relations ?
it is hard to draw a line of principle around any area and determine if knowledge of it will provide relevant information about a politician ’ s moral character .
the problem is that the media have an interest in publishing information that increases their audience , and personal information , especially of a sexual nature , will often do just that .
even so , whether people choose to marry or not , whether they are heter os ex ual or homos ex ual , even whether they pay to fulfill their ero tic fantasies or have fantasies they can fulfill at no cost , tells us little about whether they are good people who can be trusted with high office – unless , of course , they say one thing while doing another .
if we can cultivate a wider tolerance of human diversity , politicians , business leaders , and administrators would be less fearful of “ exposure , ” because they would realize that they have done nothing that they must hide .
prostitu tion is illegal in most of the us , including washington dc , and this could be one reason why to bias had to resign .
but when new jer sey governor john cor z ine was involved in a serious road accident last month , it became known that he violated his own state ’ s law by not wearing his seat belt .
by any sensible measure , cor z ine ’ s violation of the law was more serious than that of to bias .
laws requiring the wearing of se at bel ts save many lives .
laws prohibiting prostitu tion do no evident good at all , and may well do harm .
yet no one suggested that cor z ine should resign because of his foolish and illegal act .
in the us , at least , bre aching sexual norms still brings with it a moral op pro br ium that is unrelated to any real harm it may do .
where has all the water gone ?
manila – we live on a par ched planet .
farmers ti ll ar id past u reland , and policymakers fre t over empty reservo irs , dry rivers , and thir sty cities .
and that only scrat ches the surface – literally – of the world ’ s water problem .
sub terr an ean aqu if ers , which amount to the world ’ s reserve water tank , are also running dry .
if this continues , the consequences could be dire , especially for water- stressed and fast-growing asia .
sub terr an ean aqu if ers are re pos it ories of water located deep underground , in per me able rock , soil , or sand .
and they contain about 100 times the amount of water found on the earth ’ s surface , in streams , l akes , rivers , and wetlands .
if you ’ re in central africa , south america , or some parts of europe , you ’ re probably standing just a few hundred feet above one .
surface water resources , such as des al inated se a water or recycl ed waste water , will not close the global gap – predicted to reach 40 % by 2030 – between water supply and demand .
so sub terr an ean aqu if ers are increasingly being exploited for agriculture , power generation , and daily use in fast-growing cities ( urban asia is growing at a rate of 1 20,000 people per day ) .
today , about 30 % of the world ’ s liquid freshwater comes from sub terr an ean aqu if ers .
and one-third of the 37 largest aqu if ers studied by the university of california between 2003 and 2013 were severely depleted , receiving little or no repl en ishment from rainfall .
some of the most stressed aqu if ers are in the dri est regions , including asia , up to 88 % of which is water- stressed .
asia contains around one-third of the world ’ s land irrig ated by groundwater , with india , china , and pakistan being the biggest consumers .
south asia alone accounts for half the groundwater used globally .
instead , b ore holes are getting deeper and water tables are falling .
in pakistan ’ s punjab province , over- pumping is lowering the water table by up to a half- meter ( 20 in ches ) per year , threatening future food and water security and making thir sty crops like su gar cane and rice tougher to grow .
asia ’ s surging population – which could jump by 25 % , top ping five billion , by 2050 – will put even more stress on food , energy , and water supplies .
globally , 60 % more food will be needed by then , with agriculture so aking up increasingly scarce freshwater .
climate change will exacerbate conditions further .
but the problem extends beyond water depletion .
over- pumping of groundwater is already leading to soil subsid ence , causing some asian cities to sink .
by 2030 , as much as 80 % of north jakarta could be below sea level .
parts of beijing are sinking by several centi meters per year , according to some estimates .
moreover , depleted aqu if ers near coast lines are prone to contamination from sal tw ater , rendering land barr en .
some aqu if ers are contaminated by arsen ic , which can occur naturally deep underground .
nature ge os ci ence estimates that more than 60 % of groundwater in the indo- g an getic aqu if er is contaminated by arsen ic or salt .
in bangladesh , water tainted by arsen ic is blamed for more than 40,000 deaths each year .
the first step toward re med ying this situation is to establish precisely how much groundwater is left and how it is being used – not easy , but not impossible either .
nasa ’ s gravity recovery and climate experiment satellite provides information on changes in the earth ’ s gravity due to fluctu ating water volumes .
and by applying remote sen sing technology to river bas ins , we can determine how much surface water is available and who is consuming what .
another important step is to improve the pricing of groundwater .
china has run a pilot program in which farmers had to pay extra if they pumped more than their allocation .
similar approaches have worked well in australia and mexico .
but such measures can be politically difficult to implement .
the key to success will be to help countries not only to design the right policies , but also to create the legal frameworks needed to establish and enforce them .
even more politically difficult would be the elimination of electricity and gas subsidies , which encourage farmers to pump groundwater all day .
if such subsidies can ’ t be withdrawn , there are innovative alternatives that could curb over- pumping .
for example , in gujarat , india , the government has reduced groundwater pumping by offering power for just eight hours per day .
farmers have the power they need , but can ’ t pump all day long .
another approach could be to buy back surplus power from farmers to feed into the grid .
that would not just reduce over- pumping , but also help to supplement rural incomes .
efforts to repl en ish aqu if ers could also be pursued .
a pilot program in india ’ s u tt ar pradesh state collec ts excess floo d water in storage pon ds , from which water se ep s into the water table .
around 80 % of waste water is returned un treated to rivers , often contam inating them .
taking stronger action to stop this would be far simpler – including log istically and politically – than conserv ing groundwater .
sub terr an ean aqu if ers should be the reservo ir of last resort .
if we don ’ t protect them today , future generations will pay a steep – or even an existential – price .
the arab autocracy trap
tel aviv – it has been more than six years since the start of the arab spring , and life for most arabs is worse than it was in 2011 .
unemployment is rife in the middle east and north africa , where two thirds of the population is between the ages of 15 and 29 .
and throughout the region , regimes have closed off channels for political expression , and responded to popular protests with increasing brutality .
the governments of egypt , saudi arabia , and , to some extent , morocco , epitom ize arab regimes ’ seeming inability to escape the autocracy trap – even as current circumstances suggest that another popular awakening is imminent .
egypt offers a classic example of how revolution often ends in betrayal .
president abdel fat tah el- sisi ’ s dictatorship is even more violent than that of hosni mubarak , the strongman whose 30-year rule was ended by the 2011 uprising .
with the help of a police force that he himself describes as a “ mil lion- man mafia , ” sisi has made repression the paramount organizing principle of his regime .
it would be a her cu lean feat for anyone to reform egypt ’ s economy so that it benefits the country ’ s 95 million people ( plus the two million added every year ) .
and it is a task that egypt ’ s leaders can not avoid , because the social contract of the mubarak years , whereby egyptians traded freedom for an expansive welfare state and generous subsidies , is no longer sustainable .
with youth unemployment at 40 % , only a bold reformist president could pull egypt back from the brink of economic disaster .
sadly , rather than providing hope to the younger generation of egyptians who protested in tahrir square six years ago , sisi has stifled individual initiative and made the army the primary actor in the economy .
perhaps fearing even greater social unrest , sisi has yet to meet the conditions set last november by the international monetary fund as part of a $ 12 billion bailout .
these include drastically reducing the wage bill for egypt ’ s bloated public sector , which still employs six million people ( not counting the army and police ) ; and reducing subsidies , which still constitute 30 % of the national budget .
moreover , sisi has offered even fewer institutional channels for political expression than existed under the mu bar ak - era one-party system .
according to the egyptian centr e for economic and social rights , there were five times more street protests in egypt in 2016 than there were , on average , in the years preceding the arab spring .
a social vol can o is forming ; sooner or later , it will have to erupt .
in saudi arabia , the monarch ic al- the ocratic regime wea thered the arab spring with relative ease , because it could lavish its citizens with largesse .
but the kingdom ’ s social contract , like egypt ’ s , has become unsustainable , owing to falling oil prices and a population that has grown by more than 25 % in the last decade alone .
earlier this year , the saudi government was forced to cut public-sector salaries and subsidies on basic goods .
this represents a major risk for the regime ( indeed , the salary cuts were quickly restored , after protests were called in four cities ) , not least because the state is the largest employer of saudi citizens .
many of the region ’ s autocrats have put their faith in the “ china model ” of non- democratic development .
but that model has clearly failed them .
it requires far too much socioeconomic and political regim entation to be workable under prevailing conditions in the arab world .
this implies that saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman ’ s ambitious plan to transform his country ’ s oil -based economy into a modern industrial economy will require a long and uncertain process .
like saudi arabia , morocco , another monarchy , came through the arab spring largely un s cath ed .
at the time , king mohammed vi wisely responded to protesters by offering constitutional reforms and elections .
but morocco is now facing its own “ tunisia moment , ” reminiscent of the street vend or mohamed bou az iz i ’ s self- im mol ation in 2010 , in protest against state harassment .
bou az iz i ’ s desperate act sparked the arab spring .
and last year , morocco experienced a gru esome echo of it when the mer chant mou h c ine fi k ri was crushed to death in a tr ash comp actor while trying to retr ieve fish confis c ated by the authorities .
fi k ri ’ s death triggered a wave of protests across the northern r if , a region with a long history of rebel li ousness .
revolutionary conditions often give rise to previously unknown leaders .
in the r if , a 3 9- year-old unemployed man named nasser z ef z afi led protests that quickly spread to other parts of the country .
through online videos , he delivered fi ery speeches in the local ver n ac ular against government corruption and morocco ’ s “ dictatorship . ”
and on june 11 , the capital , rab at , was the site of the largest popular protest since the outbreak of the arab spring .
unlike his father , king hassan ii , mohammed has supported the region ’ s indigenous ber ber culture , and made investments to turn the r if coastal region into a manufacturing hub .
but progress has been erratic , because the monarchy has maintained a tight grip on all government- led economic initiatives .
investments that were promised in 2015 have yet to materialize .
still , morocco ’ s monarchy has always been a step ahead of other arab regimes when it comes to devising calculated responses to the popular mood .
this political savvy , combined with the country ’ s improving economy , could help the regime weather today ’ s turbulence and the next violent upheaval .
but the government will also have to follow through on the political reforms it promised in 2011 ; loosen its grip on the economy ; and promote inclusive growth and prosperity , including by addressing deep regional disparities .
when complacent kings and “ elected ” autocrats do not respond to public protests with a controlled revolution from above , they inevitably face a much fier cer revolution from below .
for the arab regimes , neither the promise of subsidies nor the threat of repression can squeeze the political gen ie back into its bottle .
bringing arab education online
dubai – education has long been a challenge in the arab world , with inadequate access to high-quality schooling contributing to a widening skills gap that is leaving many young people , even graduates , unemployed and hopeless .
in a region plagued by conflict and disorder , addressing these problems will not be easy .
but , with a bold and innovative approach , it can be done .
of course , no single strategy is guaranteed to resolve the arab world ’ s educational challenges .
at the newly created abdul la al gh ur air foundation for education , which has $ 1.1 billion and a mandate to broaden opportunities for young arabs by providing them with scholar ships , we have given a lot of thought to the effectiveness – and cost- effectiveness – of the various possible approaches .
and one option stands out : online learning .
already , arab countries are making rapid progress in expanding internet connectivity .
by 2018 , there are expected to be some 2 26 million internet users in the arab world , amounting to more than 55 % of the population – almost 7 % higher than the global average .
but the vast majority of young people use the internet for social media , rather than for economic or educational purposes .
in this sense , they are missing out on a major opportunity , especially given the strides that have been made in improving the effectiveness and appeal of online learning .
and , contrary to popular belief , these are not two- hour - long online lectures with no practical component .
rather , they comprise short video tu tor i als , inter active activities to practice concepts in realistic scenarios , and qu iz zes and peer assessments that provide valuable feedback to students .
thanks to this fast- evolving model , online learning is now a better alternative to traditional education than ever .
this is great news .
after all , delivering education via internet technologies resol ves some core challenges facing arab countries ’ education systems today .
for starters , there is the sheer number of young people who need affordable access to education .
once a community has internet access , as the arab world increasingly does , scaling up online learning to reach the millions of young people who are currently out of school or do not have access to high-quality institutions can be done at relatively low cost .
the arab world ’ s few strong institutions of higher education certainly could not accommodate that many students .
and even if they could , they might choose not to .
we have seen firsthand how universities in the region and around the world have shut their doors in the faces of refugees from syria and elsewhere , forcing them to overcome huge bureaucratic and financial hurdles .
the second challenge is the low quality of education currently being delivered .
for far too long , the region ’ s post- secondary institutions have operated without having to prove that the education they provide al igns with global quality standards and expectations .
through online learning , it would be far easier to measure progress and ensure that students are acquiring knowledge and skills they can actually use .
meanwhile , online learning can facilitate the introduction of new and innovative teaching and learning methods .
for example , a reduction in traditional lec turing and rote learning could create space for the kinds of self- pac ed and personalized learning and assessment tools being used by professors delivering massive open online courses on ed x and other online educational platforms .
third , the arab world faces the challenge of delivering continuous learning .
in order to thrive in today ’ s fast- changing economic environment , where technology is making many jobs redundant and rewarding greater specialization , workers everywhere must consistently upgrade or expand their skill sets .
as it stands , only wealthy young people in the arab world , without personal commitments such as families and jobs , can pursue continuous learning , in the form of graduate degrees from top universities .
open online courses can level the playing field by offering professi onally recognized credentials that boost a person ’ s career prospects .
taking all of this into consideration , we have created the al gh ur air open learning scholars program , aimed at making some of the best education in the world available to arab youth through online degree programs .
we are setting the bar high , by establishing our first collaboration with mit , a leader in open online learning .
together , mit and the open learning scholars program will create two new “ micro masters ” programs consisting of five 12- week courses in so-called stem subjects ( science , technology , engineering , and mathematics ) that are not currently taught in the arab world .
we expect these programs – accessible to young people in arab countries and beyond – will attract significant interest from students and strong support from employers .
but , in order to maximize the impact of our investment , perceptions of online learning must change , which will require a joint effort by educational institutions , government , and the private sector .
indeed , arab educational institutions must begin to explore the development of high-quality online programs .
for their part , governments should reconsider their position on recognizing online learning delivered by credible and internationally ac credited institutions .
as for private-sector actors , the key will be to reward employees with degrees and certi fications received through online programs .
in the meantime , the abdul la al gh ur air foundation for education will embark on a concerted effort to make innovative stem degrees offered online by the world ’ s best universities available to arab youth .
not to do so would risk allowing the majority of arab young people to be left behind .
the deaths of y asi r arafat and of sheikh z ay d , the long-standing ruler of the united arab emirates , continues the generational change that began in 199 9- 2000 , when the leaders of jordan , morocco , bahrain , and syria died in quick succession .
across the middle east people are younger , and their political leaders older , than the world average .
the gradual replacement of one generation of elites by another may be one of the key factors in determining whether or not effective reform takes place in the arab world .
at present , four political generations co- exist on the region ’ s socio- political map .
the outgoing leadership generation – that of arafat , king hussein or ha f iz al-assad , king fa h d and president mubarak – was born before 193 5 and has determined events in the middle east since the 1970 ’ s .
these leaders came of age and began their careers during the era of dec ol onization .
they were we aned on gamal ab del - nasser ’ s pan- arab nationalism , and the crucial political event for them was the arab defeat in the 1967 arab-israeli war .
members of this generation sought a strong arab leadership that would create a balance of power with israel .
they also believed in – or at least to yed with – forms of socialism and é t atism , and did not consider democracy or civil rights to be priorities .
the next generation was born between 193 5 and 195 5 , and in many respects represents a generation “ in between . ”
most benefited from the economic growth and expanded educational opportunities associated with the oil boom of the 1970 ’ s .
at the same time , political participation remained blocked by the previous generation , which never intended to give up power voluntarily .
unsurprisingly , many in this generation grew dissatisfied , and not a few began to look for islamic alternatives to the prevailing political systems .
rather than determining events in the coming two or three decades , this generation is likely to be sid el ined by the next cohort , born between 195 5 and 1975 .
this is the generation of syria ’ s president bashar al-assad , jordan ’ s king abdullah and morocco ’ s king muhammad vi .
some call this the “ generation of sons ” – sons of leaders who led their states for decades .
this age cohort was not much influenced by the arab-israeli wars or the east - west conflict .
instead , their political education included the gulf war of 1991 and the arab-israeli peace process of the 1990 ’ s , with its crises and breakdown .
jailed west bank fatah leader mar wan barg hou ti is as representative of this group as the leaders of syria and jordan .
members of this generation are better acqu ain ted with notions of globalization and economic reform than with socialism and revolution .
except for the palestinians , they have never known their countries other than as independent and comparatively stable states .
in the palestinian territories , the j il al- intifada , the generation of the ( first and second ) palestinian uprising , will likely become the founding generation .
but it is the fourth group that underscores the relevance of generational issues in the arab world .
even when combined , the first three generations make up barely one-third of the entire arab population .
almost 60 % of all arabs are younger than 20 , with roughly 70 % below the age of 30 .
this raises a key question : what happens to these arab “ baby boom ers ” if the generation now coming to power cl ings to it as ten ac iously as the generation of mubarak , assad , and hussein ?
the political generation of bashar al-assad , king abdullah , and gamal mubarak – son of egypt ’ s ailing president – forms a less coherent picture than that of the outgoing leadership .
in that el der generation , many had pursued military careers , and many of their aides and collabor ators were engineers and civil servants .
the socio- professional profile of the new elite is broader .
there are also more traditional politicians : personalities who see themselves as representatives of particular social or economic interests , not as apol iti cal technocrats .
this new leadership elite is in many ways more cosmopolitan than its predecessors ; their average level of education is higher ; a few have foreign degrees .
women also play a somewhat greater role .
developments in morocco , bahrain , and jordan certainly seem to suggest that this changing of the guard can help sof ten rigid political structures and allow for broader participation .
but generational change need not be accompanied by economic reform and steps towards political liberalization – witness north korea under kim il sung ’ s son , kim j ong il .
indeed , experience gives little reason to presum e that a modern way of speaking , willingness to liberalize the economy , and an urge for technological development automatically translates into a democratic opening .
it is more realistic to expect that the new arab elites will make use of their states ’ authoritarian institutions , both to overcome resistance to their economic agendas and to consolidate their newly acquired power .
this is anything but a risk-free path .
without a significant increase in opportunities for political participation , including genuinely competitive elections , the ch asm between a predominantly young population and a ruling elite with a narrow generational base will widen .
such continuing political inertia leaves an increasingly young arab population prey to the appeal of extremist ideologies , while driving the best and brightest to seek their fortune elsewhere .
arab fathers and sons
the problem of succession in the arab secular republics highlights their predicament in the transition to a post- revolutionary phase , for succession in regimes that fail to build strong institutions always risks triggering a systemic crisis .
while the decision by some in favor of dynastic succession may be lacking in democracy , it is not entirely devoid of merit .
arguably , it is a choice for economic modernization , for an end to the politics of conflict , and for positive political change further down the road .
years of western- backed repressive authoritarianism n ipped in the bu d any potential growth of a liberal alternative to the incumbent arab regimes , and turned any abrupt move to free elections into a dangerous exercise in islamic democracy .
a democracy that produces governments led by hamas , hezbollah , or the muslim brotherhood is inevitably bound to be anti-western and opposed to an american- inspired “ peace process ” with israel .
syria has already sought to assure regime continuity through quasi- monarch ic hereditary succession with the move from ha fe z al-assad to his son bashar .
there are indications that egypt might follow suit , with hosni mubarak ’ s son , gamal , taking over .
likewise , libya ’ s muammar kh addafi may be succeeded by his son , se if el islam .
as products of revolutionary military take over s , these secular nationalist regimes failed to produce genuine popular legitimacy and have had to fall back on the dynastic succession practiced by the regimes they toppled .
the centrality of hereditary succession in the quest for peace and stability was shown by ha fe z al-assad when he agreed to unprecedented good will gestures aimed at drawing ehud barak ’ s israeli government into a peace deal .
an old and sick man who was to die a few months later , he acted with a sense of urgency to reach a deal that would relieve his inexperienced son of the burden of struggling for the recovery of the golan heights .
bashar assad remains essentially loyal to his father ’ s legacy .
not unlike north korea ’ s and iran ’ s def iant nuclear policies , bashar ’ s membership in the region ’ s “ axis of evil ” is a call for dialogue with america , not an invitation to an invasion , and for a settlement with israel , not a drive to wage war on it .
in egypt , mubarak turned his back on the lofty rhetoric of gamal ab del - nasser ’ s revolution and its grand strategic designs . stability is at the heart of his thinking .
hence , he could not accept america ’ s awkward pro-democracy agenda . but he was more than willing to occupy center stage in arab diplomacy ’ s support of the ann apol is peace conference .
after all , the passion that the palestinians ’ plight evo kes among ordinary egyptians is a dangerous source of instability .
mubarak ’ s succession is being conducted in an especially sophisticated manner .
his son ’ s as cen sion , unlike that of bashar on the eve of his father ’ s death , is anything but settled .
he is widely credited for setting the country ’ s agenda , and for being the motor behind the liberal economic reforms that since 2004 have meant a qual itative leap in the egyptian economy .
it may be , as president mubarak ’ s critics argue , that the faltering progress of democratization reflects the attempt to block all potential challeng ers to gamal .
but , with the decline of secular nationalism and islamism ’ s rise , the hidden electoral power of the muslim brotherhood poses a mortal threat to the regime and its strategic alliance with the west .
as a result , the regime refuses to take any chances .
nor was muammar kh addafi ’ s decision to stop being an international pariah entirely unrelated to his concern to be que ath to his son a state that lives in peace with the world .
his abysm al human rights record remains , but the fl am boy ant “ guide of the revolution ” ceased flir ting with weapons of mass destruction and global terrorism in exchange for the end of sanctions and international rehabilitation .
a sick man whose rule at home is being challenged by islamist opponents , he decided that international ostr ac ism and domestic troubles is too explosive a combination for his son , a spo iled play boy , to handle .
algeria is an especially difficult case .
the last of the revolutionary generation , president abdul aziz but ef lik a must still conce ive a succession that ends his country ’ s civil war .
ful ly- fledged democracy might lead to victory for islamists , as it did in 1991 .
a transition to democracy in the old revolutionary arab regimes will not cor respond to a western model , nor can it be imposed by american f- 16 ’ s .
but , as countries like egypt , syria , and ly b ia might be indicating , hereditary succession is not an inherently reactionary move .
rather , it means opting for a controlled transition to a post- revolutionary phase in which economic modernization and international integration might usher in greater political change in the future .
the silent arab majority must speak up
al gi ers – since the united nations development program began work on the arab human development reports ( ah dr ) in 2001 , the situation in many arab countries has gone from bad to worse .
in fact , today the region can not even come together to publish a new report .
this is unfortunate , because finding a new shared vision for arab people , especially arab youth , is a prerequisite for ever achieving peace and prosperity in the middle east and north africa .
the first ah dr , published in 2002 , identified three major “ development deficits ” holding the region back : knowledge , women ’ s empowerment , and freedom .
the report , described as “ written by arabs for arabs , ” had a clear influence on the regional development narrative and the way national elites talked about the problems facing their societies .
around the time of the first ah dr , the arab world had reasons for optimism .
israel , having withdrawn from lebanon in 2000 , withdrew from gaza in 2005 .
new arab leaders – such as abdullah ii in jordan , mohammed vi in morocco , and bashar al-assad in syria – were coming to power and generating hope for change .
saudi arabia announced its first municipal elections in 2003 , and held them in 2005 .
egypt and iraq also both held ( mostly ) democratic elections in 2005 .
and algeria ’ s attempt to quell longstanding civil strife was largely successful , thanks in part to high oil prices throughout this period .
after the arab spring , which began in december 2010 and gained momentum through 2011 , the und p began the 2015 ah dr , which focused specifically on the plight of arab youth .
i was a member of the 2015 ah dr team , along with around 30 intellectuals and activists from the arab world .
the 2015 ah dr shared similar themes with its 2002 precursor , but this time we engaged more directly with influential arab youth to comp ile the best data possible , and to put a spotlight on the effects of the wars engul fing the region .
the 2015 report was fin alized in may 2015 .
one finding from the 2015 report that i can speak to directly is the emergence in the arab world of a “ silent majority ” with a more liberal mindset , especially among the young .
this promising trend reveals itself in generational comparisons of global opinion polls .
arab youth have more access to information from the outside world than ever before , and they are embracing values shared by other young people globally , rather than the values of their parents ’ generation .
specifically , arab youth year n for greater participation in civil society , emancip ation from patri arch al hierarch ies , and more space for individual creativity .
while education did not emancip ate as much as in the rest of the world , owing to the conservative curriculum , youth did .
given these findings , the 2015 report advis es national , regional , and international progressive groups to support the forces of emancip ation , which hold the key to finding homegrown solutions to the challenges of ensuring better governance , more productive economies , and more resilient societies .
the only route to large-scale change in the arab world is to unleash innovation and creativity – and that demands an un b ounded civil society .
fundamental civil rights must be established , supported by deep changes in the education system , reforms of family law , and a more open space for media and culture .
the 2015 report , which i hope will be published soon , should encourage a reasoned and constructive regional conversation .
it begins with this warning : “ the youth of the region are becoming continually more disenchan ted with the os si fied political power structures that margin alize them .
unless governments wake up to this blin ding reality , they are going to have to deal with far more than a few extremists . ”
the new silent majority is the best defense against the radical and suicidal under currents that have filled the political vacuum created by the collapse of the old order .
reform-minded arabs must aim to widen the center , rather than trying to bring together the fring es .
and the silent majority needs to break its silence .
otherwise , revolts against an unacceptable status quo will continue to be led by extremists , who have only grievances , not aspirations .
the early 2000s held promise for the arab world , and in today ’ s youth we can see it renewed .
arab civil-society reformers must be encouraged to speak up now , or risk losing that promise for another generation .
economic growth after the arab spring
cambridge – five years after the arab spring uprisings began , egypt , jordan , morocco , and tunisia have achieved reasonable levels of political stability .
yet economic growth remains tepid , and the international monetary fund does not expect the pace of expansion to exceed 1.5 % per capita this year .
given the region ’ s large catch-up potential and young workforces , one must ask why this is so .
one obvious explanation is that , despite significant progress in building stable governments , these countries remain subject to political risks that scare private investors .
but private investment was modest before the uprisings of 2011 , when such risks were already high .
there must be more to the story .
a look at these countries ’ recent economic history offers insight into the problem .
market economies are relatively new to the middle east and north africa , having arisen only after the 1980s , when the model of state- directed economic growth collapsed under the weight of its inefficiencies ( and resulting debt ) .
unlike latin america or eastern europe , however , arab countries liberalized their economies without liberalizing their politics .
autocrats , supported by western powers , remained firmly in place .
as a result , even as the reforms of the 1990s rolled back the state ’ s economic role – in egypt , state spending fell from 60 % of gdp in 1980 to 30 % of gdp in the 1990s – politics continued to shape markets .
in egypt , for example , the firms of 32 businessmen closely connected with then-president hosni mubarak received in 2010 more than 80 % of the credit that went to the formal private sector and earned 60 % of the sector ’ s overall profits , while employing only 11 % of the country ’ s labor force .
in tunisia , former president z ine el ab id ine ben ali ’ s cronies received 21 % of all private-sector profits in 2010 , though their firms employed only 1 % of tunisia ’ s labor force .
unsurprisingly , this system generated only modest growth .
political loyalty does not translate into economic efficiency , and autocratic leaders ’ loy alists consistently failed to build competitive world-class corporations .
with talented potential competitors at such a distinct disadvantage , nobody was motivated to innovate or invest adequately .
and it was not only traditional rent- filled sectors , such as real estate or natural resources , that failed to reach their growth potential .
in tradable sectors , such as manufacturing and utilities , rents were created through non-tariff protection and subsidies , leading to anemic export growth .
the result was a dearth of jobs in the formal sector , which rarely employed more than 20 % of the labor force .
with the few good jobs reserved for favored groups , a growing pool of educated young workers faced lower- quality jobs in the informal sector .
add to that poor - quality services , and social mobility ground to a halt .
intensifying social dissatisfaction was met with rising levels of repression .
as political risks rose , the autocrats ’ cronies demanded higher returns .
ultimately , the regimes ’ inability to control both the street and the private sector culminated in popular protests and political revolutions .
the governments that emerged from the arab spring ’ s w reck age inherited a broken system of closed deals .
inadequate property- rights protection is impeding investment , but moving to fair and well- enforced rules is not a realistic prospect in the current environment , given the petty corruption of an under paid bureaucracy and the polarized political environment .
these countries could try to replicate turkey ’ s economic success in 2000- 2010 , when a political alliance between the ruling party and a broad group of dynamic small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) contributed to a tri pling of exports .
the challenge here would be to find the right investors , who can spur growth and create jobs , not just provide political support .
here , morocco and jordan have had some success , with their monarchies proving capable of managing elites who offer both political acquiescence and economic sust en ance .
but , while these countries ’ governments are having some success in broadening their business coalitions , traditional rent-seeking cronies are constraining progress .
by undermining investment in tradable sectors , appe asing them means hampering export growth considerably .
tunisia could take a page out of morocco ’ s playbook , expanding its export sector by attracting foreign direct investment , while opening up its domestic services sector to local smes .
but it would still have to face the challenge of liberalizing its economy , in the face of rising pressure from labor unions to protect inefficient incumbent firms from increased competition .
for its part , egypt is relying on public and private firms close to its army , together with finance from the gulf cooperation council , to support its economy .
but , given the fall in gcc oil revenues – not to mention disappointment with the arrangement ’ s inefficiency – this route seems increasingly limited .
in all four countries , employment growth will remain constrained for some time to come .
improving economic inclusion without threatening political leaders will be no easy feat , as it demands the creation of more inclusive governance arrangements .
for morocco and tunisia , the convergence of interests between moderate islamists and liberals offers a ray of hope .
but such hope seems to be lacking for the moment in egypt and elsewhere in the region .
why economists missed the arab spring
unlike in previous years , there was no tor rent of commentary about the tumultuous events that shook the arab world and seemed to promise a transformation of its politics .
of course , novel ty we ars off over time .
but waning interest in the arab uprisings reflects a deeper shift : hope for new , more representative political systems has given way to despair , as expect ant revolutions have morphed into counter- revolution , civil war , failed states , and intensifying religious extremism .
and yet , as dis agre eable as the outcomes may have been so far , we must continue to focus on the arab spring uprisings , in order to un cover their root causes .
like any landmark event , they have posed new and difficult questions .
and one of the most important is why economists failed to anticipate the unrest .
forecasting political upheaval is no easy feat .
economists have a less- than- impressive record when it comes to predicting even economic crises .
but this particular forecasting failure may reflect a deeper problem with economic assumptions and frameworks .
on the eve of their downfall , a few arab autocrats were actually being lauded by the world bank and international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies .
the world bank ’ s subsequent me a cul pa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies they had prescribed for the arab anci en ré g im es .
this raises a raft of other questions .
were economists focused on the wrong indicators ?
were they mis led by false infer ences ?
or were they not paying enough attention to potential pitfalls ?
in short , was it a problem of data or analysis ?
a failure to anticipate political revolutions reflects , at least partly , conceptual in adequ acies .
mainstream economics tends to focus on the equilibr ium- seeking behavior of homo econom ic us , guided by rational choice , when marginal benefits equal marginal costs .
that conceptual framework is demonstr ably ill equipped to deal with social and political upheavals , which can hardly be described as marginal changes .
there are also empirical dimensions to this forecasting failure .
many of the data painted quite a favorable picture of the economic situation in the middle east and north africa ( mena ) .
during the decade before the uprisings erupted , the region ’ s economies attained respectable real annual gdp growth rates of around 4-5 % .
these gains were somewhat dil uted by the population growth that accompanied them , with real per capita gdp- growth rates hovering around 2- 2.5 % .
nonetheless , this represented a significant improvement from the 1980s and 1990s , when the mena economies lagged far behind other regions .
there were also appreci able improvements in human- development indicators in the mena countries and , judged by conventional criteria , inequality was declining in some of them .
for example , the gini coefficient was declining in egypt .
moreover , despite the pa uc ity of data , poverty ratios , already among the lowest in the developing world , were falling in some of the countries swept up by the arab spring – most notably , in tunisia .
mena countries had benefited , directly or indirectly , from years of favorable international oil prices – especially from 2002 to 2008 , when prices reached a historic peak of about $ 14 7 per barrel – and benefited from a recent upswing in the business cycle .
but it was not all good news , of course .
unemployment rates – particularly youth unemployment rates – were very high .
and autocrats are not exactly known for placing a high priority on social justice .
even so , the fact remains that the mena countries were experiencing improvements in relative prosperity , not economic downturns or stagnation .
this flies in the face of much conventional thinking , which links mass revolts to economic hardship and assumes that periods of relative prosperity are correlated with mass political qu ies cence .
arist o tle ’ s politics offers a radically different interpretation of the relationship between economic performance and political stability : “ in order to secure his power , a tyr ant must keep the population in poverty , so that the pre occupation with daily bread leaves them no leisure to consp ire against the tyr ant . ”
this is not to say that revolutions are the privilege of the rich , but rather that growing relative prosperity might enable greater awareness of missing freedoms and stoke resistance against poor governance .
to some extent , history bears this reading out .
iran ’ s 1979 revolution , like the arab spring uprisings , followed un parall eled economic growth , driven by highly favorable international oil prices ( which had quadru pled in 197 3- 1974 ) .
even in cases when revolutions have been preceded by economic downturns , prior improvements in prosperity may have played a role .
according to the american sociologist james c. dav ies ’ s so-called j - curve theory , revolutions – such as the russian revolution of 19 17 and egypt ’ s revolution of 195 2 – occur when periods of prolonged economic and social development are sharply and suddenly reversed .
in other words , it is not straightforward economic hardship , but rather frustration with the disparity between expectation and reality that awak ens the masses .
the arab spring suggests that improved economic performance can not be viewed as an insurance policy against political instability .
learning that lesson may help us avoid being blind sided by future political upheaval .
it might even enable us to avoid the kind of disappointment and despair that the arab spring has brought .
the arab spring and the western winter
beirut – there are many striking parallels between the “ arab spring ” that began in 2010 and the united kingdom ’ s brexit referendum , the election of us president donald trump , and the far-right resurgence across europe .
in each case , an old order fell , and progressive parties have been too weak to counter the emergence of authoritarian and xenophobic forms of governance .
the growing discontent with the status quo that under lay the arab uprisings of 2010- 11 had many causes , and the opposition took both progressive and conservative forms .
members of the middle class res ented their loss of dignity at the hands of an un accountable elite .
young people dec ried a future that looked especially bleak when compared to the expectations of their parents ’ generation .
and islamists stoked moral opposition to the loss of ethical values in society .
these are all recurring themes in ongoing debates across the west , with its growing population of disaffected whites , displaced workers , and frustrated young people .
over time , as economic liberalism has crowded out longstanding principles of equality and social solidarity , vast wealth disparities have emerged , corrup ting many western countries ’ politics .
meanwhile , globalization and technological innovation have had profoundly negative effects on certain social cohor ts , and public policies have failed to mitigate the damage .
far-reaching policy adjustments are now urgently needed , not least because of the deadly threat that climate change poses to the entire globe .
but what adjustments will be made , and who will carry out them out ?
popular revolts – in the streets and at the ballot box – have so far failed to deliver an alternative governing framework that offers credible solutions to the political , social , and economic problems that have engulfed western and middle eastern societies .
in the arab world , the explosion of popular anger dis lo dged long- entrenched regimes .
but the old autocrats had worked hard to prevent a credible opposition from ever being conceived .
instead , armies , tribes , sectarian groups , and religious parties quickly came to the fore .
egypt has now experienced an autocratic restoration .
yemen , syria , and libya are mired in civil war .
lebanon and iraq are fragmented .
and the oil producers that tried to extingu ish the regional fire by pouring money on it are now running massive fiscal deficits .
turkey , too , has moved toward strongman rule ; and progressive forces in iran have been weakened .
only tunisia is still pursuing a messy transition toward democracy ; even there , however , economic reforms have fallen short of addressing the challenges facing the country .
the middle east ’ s new autocrats are consolidating power with di vi de- and- rule tactics that have polarized citizens along sectarian and identity lines .
owing to widespread feelings of personal insecurity , many citizens have opted for sect over society , and for security over civil rights .
in the west today , populist politicians with no realistic plans for actually building a better future are em ulating middle eastern autocrats .
they win power by stoking fear of the “ other ” – refugees , muslims , or foreign terrorists – and promising to establish security through force .
once in power , they begin to consolidate their rule accordingly .
democratic institutions may be resilient to populist governance ; but , as we are already witnessing in the us , these institutions will soon be tested , and undoubtedly weakened before all is said and done .
the same parallel holds for international relations .
the geopolitical map of the middle east is being re drawn by the transnational shia- sunni split – which is being stoked by rivals such as iran and saudi arabia – and by outside intervention into regional conflicts .
similarly , western populist leaders are disrupting their countries ’ interests with respect to china , russia , india , and northern europe , and challenging the post-1945 international order , without offering anything remotely resem bling a viable alternative .
then there is the failure of progressive political forces to provide such an alternative .
the dominant narrative has already shifted worldwide .
most people no longer believe in a future defined by progress : economic dynamism , global integration , and social democracy .
a more pessimistic view has taken hold , in which the future is corrup ted by globalization , un t amed markets , labor-saving technological innovations , and global warming .
restoring optimism , in both the middle east and the west , will depend on whether intellectuals , unions , progressive parties , and civil-society groups can build a common political base and offer a shared vision for the future .
this will require not only novel solutions to emerging problems , but also a credible means to implement change democratically .
at the very least , this new age of resistance and revolution has brought out into the open problems that were once left to fester in the dark .
as a result , we now know that economic policies should be geared toward inclusion ; material consumption will have to be curtailed ; and democracy must be protected from the malign influence of concentrated wealth and entrenched interests .
these are immense challenges , to be sure ; but if we can identify them clearly , we can begin to take action .
and an achievement in one place can be a model everywhere else .
the next time millions of people march peacefully in cairo to demand that their voices be heard , the trigger may not be a self- im mol ation in si di bou z id , but a ri ot in istanbul , the impeachment of a us president , or electoral victories for progressive parties in europe .
how can the arab world avoid the abyss ?
cairo – a series of startling events in november revealed the abysm al state of affairs in the arab world .
a missile was launched from yemen toward saudi arabia ’ s capital , riyadh . saudi arabia ’ s leadership carried out a major anti-corruption campaign that affected dozens of high-profile personalities .
egypt , meanwhile , experienced its worst terrorist attack in living memory , with more than 300 civilians killed and injured .
video foot age of alleged slave auc tions in libya underscored the continuing chaos there amid the complete breakdown of the libyan state .
military victories against the islamic state and a rapprochement between palestinian factions in gaza and the west bank have done little to ease a collective sense of anxiety in the region .
nor have these positive developments inspired much confidence that the arab world will somehow pull itself back from the edge of the abyss .
foreign interference has become routine in syria , lebanon , iraq , and yemen .
and ongoing debates over identity politics and borders in the lev ant are a pre lu de to the grave , fundamental challenges ahead .
in fact , the situation in the middle east is not surprising , given that in recent years no arab country has led attempts to resolve the ongoing conflicts in libya , syria , and yemen , let alone address the palestin e- israel issue .
in many of these conflicts , foreigners have had far more influence than arabs .
historically , the middle east has been the target of numerous foreign inv asions , from the crus ades to european colonialism .
its natural resources have been gre ed ily usur ped , and it was a theater for proxy wars during the cold war .
even today , arab territories remain under occupation .
but while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’ s parl ous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will solve nothing .
after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and ineffective governance , un holy alliances , and un developed national capacities .
disaster awaits any region that is helpl ess to shape its own future , in which a majority of citizens feel disenfranch ised .
though the arab world is traditionally conservative , almost 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , and young people suffer from the highest rates of unemployment in most countries .
this constitutes not only a tremendous waste of resources , but also a serious long-term soci opoliti cal problem .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region .
arabs must take charge of their own agenda , and become the primary force defining their future and that of their countries .
they should , of course , continue to engage with the outside world and strengthen their strategic relationships and alliances .
but they also must become less dependent on others .
for starters , the region ’ s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , to defend against non- existential threats and hegemonic expansi onism .
this , in turn , will enhance their political influence , and give them more diplomatic tools for addressing regional problems and preventing military conflicts .
moreover , arabs must defend their national identities .
the middle east ’ s nation-state system is not perfect , but it is far better than religious or ethnic sectarianism , which threaten to destabilize the region even further .
to avoid that outcome , the region ’ s existing nation-states will need strong institutions to provide for efficient governance and social inclusion .
unfortunately , most arab countries ’ institutions are nowhere near being able to meet this imperative .
looking ahead , arabs should recognize that domestic reform is the best way to prevent foreign interference and defend national interests .
the arab awak en ings over the last few years revealed a centrist middle-class yearning for change .
but this does not neg ate the fact that these movements were a response to perpe tually bad governance and a failure on the part of arab leaders to pursue gradual reforms .
arabs also need to give themselves a larger variety of economic , political , and security options , so that they can adapt to changing circumstances .
the world is no longer bipolar or euro centric .
in fact , it is the west ph alian state system itself , not just the postwar geopolitical paradigm , which is being tested by rapid technological , economic , and social changes .
lastly , the arab world needs to confront regional hegemonic attitudes and the illegitimate occupation of arab lands .
solutions to current problems must respect people ’ s aspirations for statehood and sovereignty , while going beyond tactical or transactional approaches that provide only short-term relief .
ultimately , any policy that fails to protect basic rights will not succeed .
arab countries , individually and collectively , will need a fully formed strategy to confront existential foreign and domestic threats to their sovereignty and security in the coming years .
it is high time for arab leaders to out line a vision for the future of inter- arab relations , and a plan for engaging with their non- arab neighbors on regional opportunities and challenges .
last but not least , arab leaders must also explain how they will provide better domestic governance for their people .
if the arab world wants to have a say in shaping its own future , it can not remain complacent in the present .
its leaders and people must start planning now .
rethinking the state ’ s role in arab economies
washington , dc – the arab world has a long tradition of commerce and enterprise .
yet , since achieving independence , many arab countries have adopted state-led development models that have left their economies overly reliant on the government .
this is unsustainable .
the arab world ’ s economic model has endured , despite major setbacks in the 1990s , largely because the state employs a large share of workers and provides universal subsidies .
this eliminates risk from citizens ’ economic lives , entren ching their dependence on the government and stifling entrepreneurship and innovation .
it also undermines the delivery of public services , stoking mistrust of the very government on which populations depend so heavily .
now , the arab world ’ s state-led development model may be set to reach a breaking point , as hundreds of millions of young people prepare to enter labor markets in the coming decades .
with the public sector unlikely to be able to absorb these new workers , there is an urgent need to create a dynamic private sector that not only adopts , but also generates technological innovations that empower workers and deliver durable and inclusive growth .
this approach is in line with the demands of the sustainable development goals , which were approved by all united nations member states – including all arab countries – in 2015 .
achieving the sdgs – which range from eliminating hunger and poverty to protecting the environment – will require the involvement of dynamic private sectors that are capable of producing technological solutions and willing to provide critical financing .
private-sector financing – say , of the infrastructure projects demanded by s dg 9 – is particularly important in the arab world , where many governments are already burdened by debt .
to help mobilize that financing , the world bank group has launched the maximizing finance for development program .
of course , governments must also maximize their own resources .
in the past , abundant investment and energy revenues limited the incentive to mobilize tax revenues .
but , as government coffers are depleted , arab countries – among the least efficient tax collec tors in the world – are under growing pressure to pursue meaningful reform .
arab governments must also boost the efficiency of their spending .
to improve the state ’ s functioning and regain citizens ’ trust – developments that could facilitate tax collection – arab governments should apply the concept of “ value for money ” to public administration .
such a framework for assessing cost- effectiveness of public-sector activities requires that data about those activities be collected , assessed , and disclosed in a transparent way .
mechanisms such as information- feedback lo ops would then enable authorities to identify quality issues and make improvements quickly .
here , too , the world bank group is taking steps to help .
because investing in human capital is the most important long-term action a government can take , the human capital project focuses on identifying the factors that are undermining the efficiency of investments in this area .
even before comprehensive data are available , however , some approaches for improving the efficiency of public spending and administration stand out .
in particular , arab countries can emphasize the loc alization of development .
by improving the capacity of local governments to plan , finance , and deliver key services , including health and education , countries could boost value for money , build confidence among citizens , and make significant strides toward achieving the sdgs .
a final area where reform is imperative is regulation .
in many arab countries , incumbent public and private firms – especially in critical sectors like financial services , telecommunications , and energy – enjoy significant advantages , including outright protection , onerous regulations that deter market entry by new players , and inadequate limits on natural monopolies .
this impedes competition and cont est ability , undermines the diffusion of gener al- purpose technology , and blocks the type of adaptation and evolution that a dynamic private sector requires .
rather than control the economy outright , arab governments should foster the emergence of independent yet accountable regulators that can help ensure improved economic outcomes .
of course , if history is any indication , the shift from a dir ig ist e state to a regulatory one will not be easy .
but past experience offers useful lessons to guide this process .
in any case , the regulatory status quo – which will condemn arab youth to unemployment and disenfranch is ement – is not an option .
this is all the more true at a time when tech giants like facebook , amazon , tencent , and alibaba – with mat ch ma king -based business models tur bo - boosted by digital technology – are prop elling a shift toward “ ultra- concentration . ”
in this context , building a dynamic private sector capable of providing opportunities to the arab world ’ s young workers will require even more vigilant and effective regulators , operating within a smart regulatory framework that addresses issues relating to the collection and use of data .
it is often said that private sec tor -led innovation is the key to enabling developing countries to leap fro g their way into the future .
but this narrative should not be allowed to obscure the paramount importance of smart and innovative regulations to support such progress .
the state ’ s role in arab economies must improve , not diminish .
the lonely arab crowd
paris – in the hubris of the zero point , the colombian philosopher santiago c astro - g ome z describes ren é des car tes ’ s 16 37 declaration “ i think , therefore i am ” as the moment white europeans installed themselves above god as the sole arbit ers of knowledge and truth .
with this turning point , they began to think of themselves as observers whose scientific methods , mor als , and ethics over ro de those of other cultures .
cultural “ zero points ” are important because they serve as a dividing line – a clear dem ar cation of “ before ” and “ after ” that holds fundamental implications for the development of private and public life .
so it is instructive to consider the implications of c astro - g ome z ’ s concept for the arab world .
indeed , it could be argued that much of the region ’ s troubles are attributable to the absence of an indigenous “ zero point ” onto which a modern culture could be st ur d ily pin ned .
in the lonely crowd , the american sociologist david ri es man identified three broad cultural types : traditi on- directed cultures that look to inherited r itu als , mor als , and values for guidance ; in ner- directed cultures , in which people behave according to self- nourished values ; and other - directed cultures that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences .
ri es man ’ s framework has particular reson ance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stir red a ma el stro m of competing cultural narratives , with his three types competing to define the region ’ s future .
ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and modern technology that is fan ning the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religious re viv alists and western- oriented modern izers .
according to the lebanese publish er sam ar ab ou - ze id , however , religious books are among the most down loaded works of literature in the arab world .
the trouble is that most religious texts consumed today in the arab world address an audience of specialists that no longer exists and – as ri es man warned – they are often mis constr ued .
the people and the times for which these texts were written are completely different from the people reading them today .
dev out muslims , of course , have their own zero point : the year 6 10 , when the ang el gab ri el revealed the koran ’ s first verse to the prophet muhammad .
from then on , many muslims have regarded themselves as the bear ers of a righteous truth and moral vision that takes precedence over all others .
this has inevitably put religious re viv alists in opposition to the second cultural type v ying for pre emin ence in the arab world : western- educated , in ner- directed modern ists who hold des car tes ’ s declaration as their reference point .
these arabs – often the economic elite – read , admire , and consume products of a culture that , despite its proclaimed commitment to “ universal values , ” continues to be st ing ily euro centric and dominated by christian intellectual tradition .
as a result , they are increasingly likely to feel like ex iles both at home and abroad .
the final , other - directed str and of arab culture is arguably the most dominant : those whom ri es man would have called the “ lonely arab crowd . ”
free of roots or tradition , they take refuge in superfic i ality from the conflicts that sur round them , seeking ful fill ment in consum er ism , careers , and lifestyles .
their zero point is the latest f ad or fashion .
this cultural turbulence is due – at least in part – to the absence of a contemporary homegrown intellectual tradition capable of providing arab societies with an inner comp ass based on local values and modern perspectives .
this cultural vacuum is most evident in the mismatch between the region ’ s reading habits and the response of its publishing industry .
egyptians , for example , read for an average of 7.5 hours per week , compared to five hours and 42 minutes in the united states .
and yet in 2012 , according to ab ou - ze id , the entire arab world and its 3 62 million inhabitants produced just over 15,000 tit les , putting it in the same league as romania ( with a population of 2 1.3 million ) , ukraine ( 4 5.6 million ) , or the american publish er p eng u in random house .
to maintain a similar proportion to population , the arab world should be publishing 10- 20 times more tit les than it does today .
the dominance of old religious texts and western- produced works has left modern arab readers polarized , without a zero point of their own .
it is ironic that increased literacy and adoption of modern technology have contributed not to intellectual growth , but to regional strife .
it may be no coincidence that lebanon , one of the first countries in the region to boost literacy rates , was also the first to tum ble into civil war .
unless arab and muslim societies re discover , revitalize , and in some respects create their homegrown contemporary intellectual tradition , the result will be cultural drift or , far worse , the continuation of bloody civil strife .
arafat 's ghost
history gave y asi r arafat far more time than most leaders to achieve his mission .
after all , at the time of his death he had been leader of the palestinians for 35 years .
yet he left his people in a terrible situation , with no state , in the midst of a losing war , and with a bankrupt economy .
whether his successors can revive and complete the palestinians ' historic mission depends on how they define their goal .
looking back at his career , arafat never really ve ered from the belief that his life 's mission was to destroy israel by any means necessary and replace it with a palestinian arab state .
an independent palestinian state that did not include all of israel held no appeal to him .
he was equally indifferent to his people 's material welfare and anything particular about the design of a viable political and economic system .
now , in the post- arafat era , palestinians must choose one of several strategies .
the moderate strategy seeks an independent palestine state as quickly as possible , on the assumption that once there is no more israeli presence or violence , the palestinians can concentrate on constructive pursu its , including resett ling refugees and improving living standards .
but this is the view of only a small minority of leaders , notably former prime minister abu ma z in and muhammad da h lan , who heads his own militia in the gaza strip .
if arafat had taken this road - accepting israel 's existence , ending terrorism , and confronting palestinian extremists - the conflict would have ended long ago .
but , with no single all-powerful leader , it will be hard for any successor to force through the difficult decisions required by such an orientation .
the hard- line strategy is the traditional ideological approach championed by many fatah and plo veterans who returned from exile to the west bank and gaza strip , including arafat .
their current leaders include men like palestine national council head sal im al- z an un and fatah ideological chief sak r hab ash , who favor continuing to battle israel until it is destroyed , at which point they will rule palestine with a relatively secular nationalist regime .
they look down at younger challeng ers and view the islamists as a threat .
the younger generation of indigenous west bank palestinians , whose leaders began political activity in the uprising of the late 1970 's , embraces a militant strategy that views the hardliners as bur ne d- out old f og ies , ener v ated by corruption .
unlike the hard- line secularists , the militants , whose best- known leader is mar wan barg hu ti , the head of the tanz im grassroots grouping in fatah , are willing to work with the islamists .
the militants argue that a two- stage strategy is needed to defeat israel .
first , long-term continuation of violence will force israel to withdraw from the occupied territories .
then , with palestinians gaining the upper hand , they can advance to a second stage in which all of israel is conqu ered , implying armed struggle - which often takes the form of anti- civilian terrorism - for many more years .
finally , there is the revolutionary islamist vision espoused by hamas , which seeks to continue fighting and using terrorism , regardless of how much time it takes and lives it costs , until it defe ats both israel and palestinian secular nationalists .
palestine will then be an islamist state in which moderates would be shot and the old nationalist leadership forcibly retired or jailed for corruption .
in the meantime , however , hamas is willing to form alliances with the nationalists , particularly the militant faction of fatah .
the problem for palestinian moderates is clear : any leader willing to agree a peace treaty with israel would be opposed - passion ately and even violently - by roughly 80 % of the movement .
a key question is whether the palestinian masses , fed up with their leadership 's bickering , corruption , and incompetence , could make their wishes known to find an end to a conflict that has cost them so much .
but none of the main leadership factions are proposing that the masses be consulted very much . nor did arafat leave in place any institutional mechanisms for doing so .
moreover , the popular appeal of radical religion , ideology , and misinformation should not be underestimated .
few palestinians are even aware that four years ago arafat turned down an independent state equal in size to the entire west bank and gaza strip , in addition to more than $ 20 billion in refugee compensation .
the main problem left by arafat is the lack of any leadership at all .
rarely in history has a political movement been so deliberately set by its founder on a course toward chaos .
arafat not only left no successor , but no order .
over the decades , the movement has developed a political culture of in discipline .
arafat presided over a sort of anarchy , encouraging rivalries , undermining other potential leaders , and ensuring that all authority ( and money ) ran through his hands .
only if the post- arafat movement decides that it really wants a palestinian state in exchange for ending the conflict with israel in every respect will there be a real chance of peace .
arafat 's death may well mark the beginning of that process , but the transition to a new palestinian leadership could take years , and there is no assurance that it will be a moderate one .
arafat ’ s last hur r ra h
in his protracted moment of death , y asi r arafat performed his last act of duty to the palestinian cause to which he devoted his entire life .
he carried out a protracted war of national liberation . he with stood a series of protracted si eg es – in am man ( 1970 ) , beirut ( 1982 ) , and in ram allah ( 200 2- 2004 ) .
arafat ’ s leadership was the most protracted among his counterparts in the arab world , as he out lived three egyptian presidents ( n agu ib , nasser , sadat and span ned all of mubarak ’ s quarter of a century ) , five lebanese presidents , three iraqis , five alger ians , three syrians , three saudi monarch s , and two in morocco , not to mention other world leaders , from eisenhower to bush in the us , from de gaulle to chirac in france , and from ma ó  to three successors in china .
probably no other political figure alive today met and endured as many world leaders as arafat .
but there is much more to arafat ’ s legacy than end ur ance .
it has been correctly said over and again that arafat was a mixed blessing for his people .
their fate and destiny have been inextricably linked , to the near demise of both at times .
for several decades after the usur p ation of their homeland , palestinians were reduced to aggreg ates of refugees , some remaining in the new ly- created state of israel as second- class citizens , with others scattered over the arab world and far beyond .
it was y asi r arafat , through the palestinian liberation organization ( plo ) he founded , that gave them a sense of identity as a people .
regardless of its effectiveness , the armed struggle waged by the plo did empower the palestinians and intern alize a sense of collective dignity and self respect within them .
their cause could no longer be ignored .
no other modern issue has appropri ated as many un resolutions or as much international diplomacy .
if politics is defined as the art of compromise , arafat was a master of it at the palestinian and arab levels .
he managed to stay at the helm for over forty years with no serious challeng ers .
internationally , however , he was out of step with the post cold war era .
whether or not he was solely to blame , a true opportunity for historical compromise was missed at camp david in august 2000 , and he himself acknowledged it a year later .
by that time it was too late , as the leadership in both the us and israel had changed and there was no interest to engage him .
during the last four years of his life , arafat ’ s public space was literally and metaph or ically diminishing .
he was unable to re- engage his israeli adversaries or control his suic ide - bound palestinian militants .
nor was he able to contain let alone combat rampant corruption in the palestinian authority .
nor was arafat helped by world events that shifted the spotlight to bush ’ s wars on terrorism in afghanistan and iraq .
if anything , they had adverse effects for him and his life- long cause .
like his own body , arafat ’ s familiar world was steadily fading away with irreversible loss of control .
ironically however , as he was dying , world leaders and the media were re discovering the importance of arafat ’ s leadership if not his person a .
the sustained focus of the media on him , to the point of near sat uration , focused world attention on the palestinian question once again .
statements by tony blair , jacques chirac , kofi annan and others on the occasion of arafat ’ s death have been forceful in demanding a spe edy and long overdue resolution of the conflict .
it is as if in death , arafat has given his people a chance to achieve what he could not achieve in life – the dream of an independent democratic palestinian state .
it is arafat ’ s last hur ra h .
why are central banks on trial again ?
london – central banks have been on a roll er- coast er ride in the last decade , from heroes to zer oes and back again .
in 2006 , when alan greenspan retired after his 18 -year reign as chair of the us federal reserve board , his reputation could hardly have been higher .
he had steered the us economy through the do t- com boom and bust , had carefully navig ated the potential threat to growth from the terror attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and presided over a period of rapid gdp and productivity growth .
at his final board meeting , timo thy geithner , then-president of the new york fed , delivered what now seems an embarrassing en com ium , saying that greenspan ’ s st ell ar reputation was likely to grow , rather than diminish , in the future .
only three years later , the nobel laureate economist paul krugman , borrowing from mon ty py th on ’ s par rot ske tch , was able to say that greenspan was an ex- ma estr o whose reputation was now pushing up da is ies .
central banks were widely seen to have been do zing at the switch through the early years of this century .
they allowed global imbalances to build up , looked ben ign ly on a massive credit bubble , ignored fl ashing danger signs in the mortgage market , and un critically admired the innovative but toxic products devised by over paid investment bankers .
the early reactions by central banks to the deepening crisis were also unsure .
the bank of england ( boe ) lec tured on moral hazard while the banking system implo ded around it , and the european central bank continued to sl ay imagin ary inflation drag ons when almost all economists saw far greater risks in a eurozone meltdown and associated credit crunch .
yet , despite these missteps , when governments around the world considered how best to respond to the lessons of the crisis , central banks , once seen as part of the problem , came to be viewed as an essential part of the solution .
they were given new powers to regulate the financial system , and encouraged to adopt new and highly interventionist policies in an attempt to stave off depression and deflation .
central banks ’ balance sheets have expanded dramatically , and new laws have strengthened their hand enormously .
in the united states , the dodd-frank act has taken the fed into areas of the financial system which it has never regulated , and given it powers to take over and resolve failing banks .
in the united kingdom , bank regulation , which had been removed from the boe in 1997 , returned there in 2013 , and the boe also became for the first time the prudential supervisor of insurance companies – a big extension of its role .
the ecb , meanwhile , is now the direct supervisor of more than 80 % of the european union ’ s banking sector .
in the last five years , central banking has become one of the fastest-growing industries in the western world .
the central banks seem to have turned the tables on their critics , emerging triumph ant .
their innovative and sometimes controversial actions have helped the world economy recover .
but there are now signs that this ag grandi z ement may be having ambiguous consequences .
indeed , some central bankers are beginning to worry that their role has expanded too far , putting them at risk of a backlash .
there are two related dangers .
the first is enc ap sul ated in the title of mohamed el- er ian ’ s latest book : the only game in town .
central banks have been expected to shoulder the greater part of the burden of post-crisis adjustment .
their massive asset purchases are a life- support system for the financial economy .
yet they can not , by themselves , resolve the underlying problems of global imbalances and the huge debt overhang .
indeed , they may be preventing the other adjustments , whether fiscal or structural , that are needed to resolve those impediments to economic recovery .
this is particularly true in europe .
while the ecb keeps the euro afloat by doing “ whatever it takes ” in ecb president mario draghi ’ s phrase , governments are doing little .
why take tough decisions if the ecb continues to administer heavier and heavier doses from its monetary drug cabinet ?
the second danger is a version of what is sometimes called the “ over- mighty citizen ” problem .
quantitative easing is a case in point .
because it blur s the line between monetary and fiscal policy – which must surely be the province of elected governments – unease has grown .
we can see signs of this in germany , where many now question whether the ecb is too powerful , independent , and un accountable .
similar criticism motiv ates those in the us who want to “ audit the fed ” – often code for subjec ting monetary policy to congressional oversight .
there are worries , too , about financial regulation , and especially central banks ’ shin y new macroprudential instruments .
in his new book the end of al chem y , former boe governor mer v yn king argues that direct intervention in the mortgage market by restr aining credit should be subject to political decision .
others , notably ax el weber , a former head of the bundesbank , think it is dangerous for the central bank to super v ise banks directly .
things go wrong in financial markets , and the supervisors are blamed .
there is a risk of contagion , and a loss of confidence in monetary policy , if the central bank is in the front line .
that points to the biggest concern of all .
central banks ’ monetary-policy independence was a hard-won prize .
it has brought great benefits to our economies .
but an institution buying bonds with public money , deciding on the availability of mortgage finance , and winding down banks at great cost to their shareholders demands a different form of political accountability .
the danger is that ha sty post-crisis decisions to load additional functions onto central banks may have unforeseen and unwelcome consequences .
in particular , greater political oversight of these functions could affect monetary policy as well .
for this reason , whatever new mechanisms of accountability are put in place will have to be designed with extraordinary care .
immunization on the front line
m ap u to – most of the news one he ars coming out of mozambique is bad – poverty , disease , conflict , and floods .
but there are a lot of good things happening in my country , too .
in the past two decades , mozambique has become a functioning democracy ; grown its agriculture sector ; raised literacy rates ; increased water supply and electricity in rural areas ; and reduced child mortality dramatically , from 2 19 per 1,000 live births in 1990 , two years before the civil war ended , to 1 35 per 1,000 in 2010 .
i am particularly proud of the last achievement , because , by working in partnership with my fellow moz amb ic ans to expand immunization coverage , i believe that i have played a part in bringing it about .
i grew up in mozambique when the country was still under portuguese rule , and the inequality in our colonial society shaped my view that all people have a right to health care .
i remember working at a pedi atric ward as a teen ager and watching children die from diseases like polio , measles , and te tan us – all easily prevented by vaccines .
the impact of that experience led me to spend the next 40 years working to ensure that every child in mozambique , regardless of her ethnicity or where she lives , gets the vaccines that she needs to help her lead a long and healthy life .
in a few days , i will join 300 global leaders in abu dhabi for the world ’ s first vaccine summit – a gathering dedicated to ensuring that all children everywhere have access to vaccines .
people like bill gates and kofi annan will make the case that immunization programs deserve adequate funding and political support .
i don ’ t have an audience like gates or annan , but i would like to add my voice to theirs .
millions of health workers like my colleagues and i make immunization their daily work .
we have made tremendous strides in reaching more children with more vaccines , which is why more children are surviving than ever before .
because vaccines are useless if parents refuse to give them to their children , a big part of my job is to collaborate with health workers , community leaders , school teachers , and local political figures to educate parents about vaccines .
but having the community ’ s support is not enough .
it is also vital to ensure that vaccines get to the right place , at the right time , and in the right condition .
for example , in order to prevent shortages , vill ag er each , the organization for which i work , helped to correct the population figures used to forecast the number of vaccines needed in each health center .
vill ag er each also started a company that delivers pro pan e gas to health centers in northern mozambique , where , like in many of the country ’ s rural areas , electricity is unreliable or completely un available to power the refriger ators that keep vaccines cool .
through the use of pro pan e , we can ensure that the vaccines do not spo il during the journey from manufacturer to mother and child .
and once a month , we make sure that health workers deliver vaccines and other health services “ the last mile ” to mothers and children in remote rural areas .
finally , i have learned that me ticul ous record- keeping and measuring results is critical to reaching more children .
that is why we are assessing different methods for gathering data from the field , including the use of mobile applications to dig itiz e paper records .
building these routine immunization systems has already helped us to eradicate diseases like polio and all but one type of measles .
earlier this month , we used them to vacc inate children against pneumonia for the first time in mozambique ’ s history , and we hope that next year we will begin to address ro ta virus , which causes diarrhea and is the number one killer for children under five years old .
our longer-term goal is to strengthen these systems enough to reach all children in mozambique with basic vaccines and other forms of health care .
i believe that we can achieve this goal , because i have witnessed how far we have come already , despite our struggles .
big challenges lie ahead , but i am confident that with the support of the global community , i can leave to my own children and community a thriving country where every person has the opportunity to prosper .
a recovery for all
new york – over the last two years , the majority of countries in the world chose to expand public spending in order to buffer the impact of the global financial crisis on their economies and populations .
but , this year , with signs of economic recovery emerging , advanced countries have quickly shifted from fiscal stimulus to fiscal consolidation .
now developing countries are also following the trend to consolidate .
a recent unicef survey of 1 26 countries shows that a significant number of low- and middle-income countries are expected to reduce public expenditures in 2010- 2011 .
this comes at a bad time , just after world governments committed themselves to achieving the development goals , such as reducing poverty and infant mortality , agreed last september at the united nations ’ millennium summit .
for most low- and middle-income countries , the incipient economic recovery appears to be fragile and uneven .
indeed , many of these countries remain vulnerable to volatile commodity prices , financial- system weaknesses , depressed demand from world markets , and shortfalls in external finance , overseas development assistance , and investment .
more importantly , according to the un and the world bank , the social impact of the global economic crisis continues to be felt in terms of rising hunger , unemployment , and social unrest .
the combination of rising food and fuel prices and the financial and economic crisis has reduced poor families ’ purchasing power , access to social services , and employment opportunities .
moreover , poor households have reduced food consumption , with the un food and agricultural organization estimating that nearly one billion people are hungry and mal nourished .
in addition to the millions already pushed into poverty in 2008- 0 9 , another 64 million could fall into extreme poverty during 2010 as a result of the combined , lingering effects of the crisis .
in the 1980 ’ s , adjustment programs required countries to cut back on their expenditures , including outlays on education , health , water , agriculture , and other sectors that make a difference to poor households .
as the late tanz anian president juli us ny er ere demanded publicly : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ”
infant mortality rates rose among low-income groups in many developing countries , and inequality increased .
unicef responded with adjustment with a human face , which argued that children must be protected during economic crises .
it argued for more expansionary macroeconomic policies to generate employment , public-sector investments to serve the poor , and the establishment of social- protection systems .
thirty years later , dé j à v u , the same message applies .
the poor in developing countries are again being made to endure the worst consequences of a crisis that they played no part in creating .
it is critically important that this does not lead to a new lost decade of development , and that poor households – especially children – do not suffer as they did in the 1980 ‘ s .
and yet that could very well happen .
our unicef survey of 1 26 developing countries found that among the nearly one-half that are reducing public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and the targeting and ration alization of already meager social- protection systems .
these adjustment measures are often adopted without carefully examining their social impact .
how many poor children will suffer – or die – from lack of food and health care ?
how many children will miss out on education because teachers are absent due to low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family income ?
adjustment of public expenditures raises the risk of a recovery that discrimin ates against the poor , and thus fuels greater inequities in developing countries .
premature fiscal contraction and/or withdrawal of countercyclical measures threaten the public support that is essential to promoting recovery among those hardest hit by the crisis .
as the global recession eb bs , the most urgent imperative is recovery for all – a recovery that is inclusive , expands employment opportunities , reduces inequalities , and sustain s development processes .
this can be achieved .
it requires that aid to poor countries be sustained ; that governments focus on expansionary macroeconomic policies that support employment and broad-based economic activities ; that new schemes be introduced to extend health services and social protection for the poor ; and that investments in education , water supply , sanitation , agriculture , and food security receive the support they need .
spr ing time for fascism ?
new york – are we seeing a new dawn of fascism ?
many people are beginning to think so .
donald trump has been compared to a fascist , as has vladimir putin and a variety of demagogues and right-wing lou d mou ths in europe .
the recent tide of authoritarian bluster has reached as far as the philippines , whose president-elect , rodr ig o ( “ the pun ish er ” ) du ter te , has vowed to tos s suspected criminals into manila bay .
the problem with terms like “ fascism ” or “ nazi ” is that so many ignorant people have used them so often , in so many situations , that they have long ago lost any real significance .
few still know firsthand what fascism actually meant .
it has become a cat ch- all phrase for people or ideas we do n't like .
loose rhetoric has co arsen ed not only political debate , but historical memory , too .
when a republican politician compares us property taxes with the holocaust , as one senate candidate did in 2014 , the mass murder of jews is triv i alized to the extent of becoming meaningless .
the same is roughly true when trump is compared to hitler or mussolini .
as a result , we are too easily distracted from the real dangers of modern demagog u ery .
after all , it is not hard for trump – or the netherlands ’ geert wilders , or putin , or du ter te – to refu te accusations of being fasci sts or nazis .
they may be re pul sive , but they are not organizing uni formed storm tro op ers , building concentration camps , or calling for the corporate state .
of course , for ge t fulness or ignorance about the past goes both ways .
when a young dutch writer , sympathetic to the new populist wave , expressed antipathy to his country ’ s “ cultural elite , ” for promoting “ at onal music ” and other arrogant forms of ug lin ess , instead of the wholes ome beauty embraced by the common man , i wondered whether he knew about the nazis ’ attack on “ de generate art ” ?
at onal music , hardly the cutting edge today , was precisely the kind of thing that hitler ’ s min ions lo ath ed – and ultimately banned .
there are other echoes of our dark est history in contemporary political bomb ast , which a few decades ago would still have cast any politician who used it to the margins .
stoking hatred of minorities , ful min ating against the press , stir ring up the mob against intellectuals , financiers , or anyone who speaks more than one language , were not part of mainstream politics , because enough people still understood the dangers of such talk .
it is clear that today 's demagogues don ’ t much care about what they der is i vely call “ political correc tness . ”
it is less clear whether they have enough historical sense to know that they are po king a mon ster that post-world war ii generations hoped was dead but that we now know only lay dormant , until obli vi ousness to the past could enable it to be re awak ened .
this is not to say that everything the populists say is un true .
hitler , too , was right to grasp that mass unemployment was a problem in germany .
many of the ag it ators ’ bu g bears are indeed worthy of criticism : the european union ’ s op acity , the dupl ic it ousness and greed of wall street bankers , the reluctance to tackle problems caused by mass immigration , the lack of concern for those hurt by economic globalization .
these are all problems that mainstream political parties have been unwilling or unable to solve .
but when today ’ s populists start blaming “ the elites , ” whoever they may be , and unpopular ethnic or religious minorities , for these difficulties , they sound un comfortably close to the enemies of liberal democracy in the 1930s .
the true mark of the illiberal dem agogue is talk of “ betrayal . ”
the cosmopolitan elites have st ab bed “ us ” in the back ; we are facing an abyss ; our culture is being undermined by ali ens ; our nation can become great again once we eliminate the tra itors , shut down their voices in the media , and unite the “ silent majority ” to revive the healthy national organism .
politicians and their boo sters who express themselves in this manner may not be fasci sts ; but they certainly talk like them .
the fasci sts and nazis of the 1930s did not come from nowhere .
their ideas were hardly original .
for many years , intellectuals , activists , journalists , and clerics had articulated hat eful ideas that laid the groundwork for mussolini , hitler , and their im it ators in other countries .
some were catholic re ac tion aries who de tested secularism and individual rights .
some were obsessed with the supposed global domination of jews .
some were roman tics in search of an essential racial or national spirit .
most modern demagogues may be only v agu ely aware of these precedents , if they know of them at all .
in central european countries like hungary , or indeed in france , they may actually understand the links quite well , and some of today ’ s far-right politicians are not shy about being openly anti-semitic .
in most west european countries , however , such ag it ators use their prof essed admiration for israel as a kind of alib i , and direct their racism at muslims .
words and ideas have consequences .
today ’ s populist leaders should not yet be compared to murderous dictators of the fairly recent past .
but , by exploiting the same popular sentiments , they are contributing to a poisonous climate , which could bring political violence into the mainstream once again .
are democrats really better for america ’ s economy ?
cambridge – hillary clinton has repeatedly claimed in recent months that the us economy does much better when a democrat is in the white house .
but the truth is that she is absolutely right .
the president , no doubt , is but one of many factors shaping the economy , and some presidents have certainly been luc k ier than others .
but that doesn ’ t mean that clinton ’ s claim is only “ half true , ” as asserted by some media fact- chec kers ( including the pul it z er pr iz e- winning politi fact ) .
the difference in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with the disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance .
princeton university economists alan blin der and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study .
their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth has averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republicans .
if one goes back further , to include her bert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even larger .
the results are similar even if one as signs responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of a president ’ s term to his predecessor .
but there is more .
over the 2 56 quarters in the 16 post-war presidential terms , the us economy was in recession for an average of 1.1 quarters during democratic presid encies and 4.6 quarters during the republican terms .
the odds that such a large difference is the result of mere chance are no more than one in 100 .
and the trend is not restricted to gdp .
since 1945 , the unemployment rate fell by 0.8 percentage points under democrats , on average , and rose by 1.1 percentage points under republicans – a remarkable difference of 1.9 percentage points .
the structural budget deficit has also been smaller under democratic presidents ( 1.5 % of potential gdp ) than when republicans have been in office ( 2.2 % ) , though this has not stopped republicans from criticizing democrats for excessive spending .
even returns on the s & p 500 have been substantially higher under democrats – 8. 4 % versus 2.7 % .
( this differential is not as significant statis tically , however , because equity prices are so volatile . )
the likelihood that luck alone could have produced such large and consistent differences in economic performance is extremely low – a point that can be illustrated even without f ancy econom etr ics .
take the recession record .
if the chances of a recession starting during a democratic or a republican president ’ s term were equal , the odds of four successive recessions beginning under republicans would be 16 to one – the same as getting “ heads ” on four out of four co in- fli ps .
that is not particularly likely , yet it is exactly what happened in the last 35 years .
if one were to go back ten business cycles assuming an equal chance of a recession starting under a democratic or a republican president , the odds become even longer .
there is only a 100- to- one chance that nine out of the last ten recessions would have begun under republican presidents .
yet they did , as confirmed by the n ber business cycle dating committee .
an even more startling fact emerges from a review of the last eight times an incumbent from one party was succeeded by a president from the other party .
in the four transitions when a republican took office , gdp growth slowed ; in the other four transitions , when a democrat moved in , the growth rate went up .
that is as unlikely as getting heads on eight coin tos ses in a row – a one- in- 2 56 shot .
democrats thus have not succeeded by luck alone .
( in fact , blin der and watson also observe that the us economy performs better when democrats control congress or have appointed the federal reserve chair , though the main determinant remains the party of the president . )
so what accounts for the partisan performance gap ?
but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors were influenced by the us president ’ s policies .
we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap .
in assessing clinton ’ s statements on this topic , the fact- chec kers make much of the finding by blin der and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under democrats than under republican presidents , and therefore can not explain the performance differential .
but presidents make many policy decisions – concerning energy , anti- trust , regulation , trade , labor , and foreign policy , to name a few – beyond how much fiscal and monetary stimulus to pursue .
there is no way to test econom etr ically this myriad of policies .
it is this uncertainty that has driven the fact- chec kers to rate clinton ’ s statements as half- true .
but she never attempted to pin point particular policies to explain the performance gap .
all she said was that the us economy does better under democratic presidents .
that is 100 % true .
what good are economists ?
new haven – since the global financial crisis and recession of 2007- 2009 , criticism of the economics profession has intensified .
the failure of all but a few professional economists to forecast the episode – the after effects of which still ling er – has led many to question whether the economics profession contributes anything significant to society .
if they were unable to foresee something so important to people ’ s wellbeing , what good are they ?
indeed , economists failed to forecast most of the major crises in the last century , including the severe 19 20- 21 slump , the 198 0- 82 back -to- back recessions , and the worst of them all , the great depression after the 1929 stock-market crash .
in searching news arch ives for the year before the start of these recessions , i found virtually no warning from economists of a severe crisis ahead .
instead , newspapers emphasized the views of business executives or politicians , who tended to be very optimistic .
the closest thing to a real warning came before the 198 0- 82 downturn .
in 1979 , federal reserve chair paul a. volcker told the joint economic committee of the us congress that the united states faced “ unpleasant economic circumstances , ” and had a “ need for hard decisions , for restraint , and even for sacrifice . ”
the likelihood that the fed would have to take drastic steps to curb gall oping inflation , together with the effects of the 1979 oil crisis , made a serious recession quite likely .
nonetheless , whenever a crisis lo omed in the last century , the broad consensus among economists was that it did not .
as far as i can find , almost no one in the profession – not even lum in aries like john maynard keynes , friedrich hayek , or ir ving fish er – made public statements anticipating the great depression .
as the historian d oug las ir win has documented , a major exception was the swedish economist gu st av c ass el . in a series of lectures at columbia university in 19 28 , c ass el warned of “ a prolonged and worldwide depression . ”
but his rather technical discussion ( which focused on monetary economics and the gold standard ) forged no new consensus among economists , and the news media reported no clear sense of alarm .
interestingly , contemporary news accounts reveal little evidence of public anger at economists after disaster struck in 1929 .
so why has the failure to foresee the latest crisis turned out so differently for the profession ?
why has it – unlike previous forecasting failures – stoked so much mistrust of economists ?
one reason may be the perception that many economists were smu g ly promoting the “ efficient markets hypothesis ” – a view that seemed to rule out a collapse in asset prices .
believing that markets always know best , they dismissed warnings by a few mere mort als ( including me ) about over pricing of equities and housing .
after both markets crashed spectacularly , the profession ’ s credibility took a direct hit .
we do not blame physicians for failing to predict all of our illnesses .
our mal ad ies are largely random , and even if our doctors can not tell us which ones we will have in the next year , or eliminate all of our suffering when we have them , we are happy for the help that they can provide .
likewise , most economists devote their efforts to issues far removed from establishing a consensus outlook for the stock market or the unemployment rate .
and we should be grateful that they do .
in his new book trillion dollar economists , robert lit an of the brookings institution argues that the economics profession has “ created trillions of dollars of income and wealth for the united states and the rest of the world . ”
that sounds like a nice contribution for a relatively small profession , especially if we do some simple arithmetic .
there are , for example , only 20,000 members of the american economic association ( of which i am president-elect ) ; if they have created , say , $ 2 trillion of income and wealth , that is about $ 100 million per economist .
a cyn ic might ask , “ if economists are so smart , why aren ’ t they the richest people around ? ”
the answer is simple : most economic ideas are public goods that can not be pat ented or otherwise owned by their inventors .
just because most economists are not rich does not mean that they have not made many people richer .
the fun thing about lit an ’ s book is that he details many clever little ideas about how to run businesses or to manage the economy better .
they lie in the realm of optimal pricing and marketing mechanisms , regulation of monopolies , natural-resource management , public- goods provision , and finance .
none of them is worth even a trillion dollars , but , taken together , lit an ’ s conclusion is plausible indeed .
the 2010 book better living through economics , ed ited by john si eg fr ied , emphasizes the real-world impact of such innovations : emissions trading , the ear ne d- income tax credit , low trade tariffs , wel fa re- to- work programs , more effective monetary policy , auc tions of spectrum licenses , trans port - sector deregulation , defer red- acceptance algorithms , enlightened antitrust policy , an all- volunte er military , and clever use of default options to promote saving for retirement .
the innovations described in lit an ’ s and si eg fr ied ’ s books show that the economics profession has produced an enormous amount of extremely valuable work , characterized by a serious effort to provide genuine evidence .
yes , most economists fail to predict financial crises – just as doctors fail to predict disease .
but , like doctors , they have made life manifest ly better for everyone .
a referendum for kurdistan ?
the assassination of the president of iraq 's governing council makes it cryst al clear that the us is failing to create the minimal law -and- order needed for any sort of orderly transfer of power to take place by june 3 0th .
barely two months ago , the signing of a constitutional document by a us- appointed group of un- elected iraqi officials was heralded as if it were the re- enactment of america 's constitutional convention in phil ad el ph ia in 17 87 .
but by now it is clear that this is a worth less piece of paper .
no imposed constitution , however elegant it may be , will be very helpful to coalition forces when confronted with the type of mayhem seen in towns like fall u j ah or na j ja f .
in the kurdish region of northern iraq , however , the situation is completely different : in the last ten years , under the protection of the allies ' no-fly zone , and even more so since the toppling of saddam , the kurdish regional government has been able to establish and sustain a relatively orderly administration .
it has overcome tribal and party differences and created a de facto functioning government , with an impressive record on development issues such as education , irrigation , and construction - and , above all , with no violence .
confronted with the debacle in the rest of ( arab ) iraq , the question has to be asked why the us-led coalition should not hold a referendum in the kurdish region , asking the population how they would like to be ruled .
after all , the kurds have , by any internationally accepted standards , a right to self-determination .
historically , the kurds - who are distinct in language , culture , and historical consciousness from arabs - never had their day in court .
after world war i and the fall of the ottoman empire , the victorious allies promised them a state of their own - a promise that was cyn ically betrayed when british and french imperial interests took precedence .
since then , the kurds have suffered under the despotic rule of rival ethnic groups .
but the same goes for the rest of iraq : the us is now lam ely asking for a un resolution man dating a transfer of power to a legitimate iraqi government - but such an authorization is highly unlikely , nor is there anyone in iraq to whom authority can conceivably be transferred .
why should the one region - and people - who run an orderly government , are not involved in murder , attacks on mosques , and suicide bombing of schoolchildren , be pen alized ?
another objection is the opposition of turkey - and , to a lesser degree , iran and syria - to granting the iraqi kurds self-determination .
but if one thinks in terms of universal norms of human rights , what right has turkey to dictate internal development in another country ?
after all , nobody accepts israel 's claim to oppose as a matter of principle the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank and gaza .
the same should apply to turkey .
if turkey grants its own kurdish minority more cultural and language rights and allows legitimate kurdish political representation in the turkish parliament , the willingness of turkish kurds to oppose ankara will be diminished .
in the nineteenth century , the joint interests of the authoritarian russian , german , and austrian empires prevented the establishment of a free poland : such un holy alliances have no place in the twenty-first century .
recently , under the a eg is of the un , a referendum on the future of cyprus was held within the island 's greek and turkish communities .
the outcome was paradoxical , and not to the li king of those who initiated it : but the right of the communities to determine their future was accepted .
why not in iraqi kurdistan ?
perhaps to assu age political fears - and considerations of international law - any plebis cite in the kurdish region should , initially , have only a consul tative status .
but it will give legitimate expression to the will of a people long oppressed and entitled to their place in the sun .
such a referendum may also concentrate minds among the arab sunnis and shia in iraq , when they come to realize that it is their violence that is dismantling iraq .
perhaps they may decide that violence is counter-productive and carries its own penalties , and may then follow the kurdish example of curbing violence , which would help put iraq together again without recourse to permanent repression .
if not , at the very least , the injustice suffered by the kurdish people for generations would , at long last , be rec ti fied .
a referendum on obama
stanford – successful political candidates try to implement the proposals on which they ran .
in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , controlling the house of representatives and ( a fil ibu ster - proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and so they did .
obama and his congressional allies enacted an $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that was loaded with programs geared to key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted a sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitu tionality will be determined by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selec ts certain companies for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels exceeded only in world war ii ; and centralized power in washington , dc ( and , within the federal government , in the executive branch and regulatory agencies ) .
the last election that was followed by such a sweeping change in policy direction occurred in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overha uled taxes , spending , and regulation , and supported the federal reserve ’ s course of disinflation .
while the 1988 , 1992 , and 2000 elections were also quite consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as large as in 1980 and 2008 .
the country rebel led against obama and the democrats ’ lur ch to the left with historic congressional election victories for republicans in 2010 .
since then , many republicans have been deeply disappointed that the house of representatives has been unable to roll back much of obama ’ s agenda .
but the us political system is set up to make it much harder to accomplish something than to block it .
it is not easy to do a lot while controlling only one-half of one-third of the federal government .
the 2012 election is shaping up as a referendum on obama ’ s policies and performance .
the economy is improving slowly , but it remains in bad shape , with high unemployment and millions having left the labor force .
republicans are expected to retain control of the house and regain a majority in the senate .
romney , for example , has a detailed 5 9- point economic program , including a cap on federal spending at 20 % of gdp , which would require reductions similar to those in the 1980 ’ s and 1990 ’ s .
g ing rich and the other republicans have an even more aggressive agenda of cutting taxes and reducing the size and scope of government .
the eventual nominee would be wise to incorporate his opponents ’ best ideas and top people into his campaign .
a republican presidential victory , together with republican control of the house and senate , would likely lead to substantial reduction , repeal , and replacement of many obama initiatives , attempts to reform taxes and entitlements , and measures to impose greater fiscal discipline .
high on romney ’ s agenda is a reduction of the corporate-tax rate , from 35 % to 25 % , the oecd average level ( the other republican candidates would lower it still more ) , which would redress a major competitive disadvantage for american multinational companies ’ global business .
a republican victory would also most likely lead to a major push to open up many more energy- exploration opportunities within america , which obama has stym ied .
romney has promised tougher negotiations on trade and currency with china , but is generally far more likely to push new trade agreements than the labor- supported obama administration .
if , however , democrats retain control of the senate , this will be far more difficult to accomplish .
a republican president also would make appointments to many key policymaking positions , from the federal reserve and the treasury to regulatory agencies .
if obama is re-elected , and republicans control the house and senate , his legislative agenda will essentially be a dead letter , and he will spend the next two years , at least , negotiating its reform and roll back .
in this scenario , the policy center of gravity in the republican party would shift to house speaker john bo e hner , the chairman of the house budget committee , paul ryan , house majority leader eric can tor , and other key representatives , including david camp , kevin br ady , and kevin mcc ar thy , along with several senators .
in that case , obama would be wise to move to the center ( as bill clinton did after the democrats lost control of congress in 1994 ) and work with congressional republicans to shape sensible tax and entitlement reforms .
but that seems unlikely : since the democrats ’ massive defeat in 2010 , obama has moved even further to the left , embracing a more populist agenda .
regardless of the outcome of this year ’ s presidential and congressional elections , various republican state governors are likely to gain a higher national profile .
all of them – including mit ch dan i els of indi ana , chr is chris tie of new jer sey , bo b mc don nell of virginia , and former governor je b bush of florida – declined to seek the republican presidential nomination , but will be on the short list for 2016 should obama win in november .
supreme court justice louis bran de is famously described the states as “ laboratories ” : they should be allowed to experiment and learn from each other which policies work .
for example , clinton and the republican congress based landmark 1996 welfare reform on policies originated by wis con sin governor tom my thom p son and successfully em ulated by new york city mayor ru dy gi uli ani , both reformist republicans .
the current cohort of republican governors offers similarly innovative state- level solutions – for example , on spending , debt , and unfunded pension and health liabilities – as models for the country .
until november , divided government and contentious campaigning will most likely prevent significant policy moves .
but , following the election , taxes and spending , trade policy , federalism , regulation , and defense will take a different course – how different depends on who wins – with important implications for america ’ s fiscal position , external balance , and much else , including its relations with the rest of the world .
are foreign investors still welcome ?
world flows of foreign direct investment ( fdi ) have soared over the past two decades , from $ 40 billion in the early 1980 ’ s to $ 900 billion last year .
the cumulative stock of fdi has reached close to $ 10 trillion , making it the most important mechanism for delivery of goods and services to foreign markets : sales by foreign affili ates total roughly $ 19 trillion , compared to world exports of $ 11 trillion .
at the same time , the liberalization of fdi regimes by virtually all countries has been a driving force of intra- firm trade – the life blood of the emerging system of integrated international production and already around one-third of world trade .
but are the good times coming to an end ?
fdi can bring a range of benefits , but it also can have costs .
during the 1970 ’ s , when the transnational corporations ( tn c ’ s ) undertaking such investment caught the public eye , many governments believed that the costs of fdi out weighed its benefits , so they controlled it .
led by the developed countries , the pendulum began to swing in the 1980 ’ s .
once viewed as part of the problem , fdi became part of the solution to economic growth and development .
as the united nations conference on trade and development reports , of the 2, 15 6 changes that took place between 1991 and 2004 , 93 % were in the direction of creating a more hosp itable environment for tn c ’ s .
but there is a real danger that the pendulum is beginning to swing back , leading to a reversal of that liberalization process .
fdi in developed countries ( and increasingly in emerging markets ) often takes the form of cross-border mergers and acquisitions ( m & a ’ s ) .
resistance to such m & a ’ s is becoming more frequent when they involve domestic firms that are regarded by politicians as “ national champions ” or important for national security , economic development , or cultural identity .
the growing involvement of private equity groups in m & a activity implies additional controversy , as such transactions are typically regarded as being purely speculative .
in the name of “ economic patriotism , ” security , and other considerations , resistance to m & a ’ s is being co di fied in an increasing number of countries .
for example , a united states senate committee recently sought to block the planned liberalization of foreign takeover rules for airlines , while europe has enacted more restrictive takeover laws .
moreover , governments are applying more strictly existing regulatory provisions concerning the ve tting of take over s by foreign firms .
this response is intertwined with a defensive reaction to the growing role of tn c ’ s from emerging markets , the “ new kids on the block . ”
established tn c ’ s , and their home countries , will need to adjust to this new const ellation of forces and its implications for the world market .
as we know from other contexts , adjustment to newcomers is not easy : compare , say , the reaction to the ti e- up between france ’ s al cat el and america ’ s luc ent to the b ids by the china national offshore oil corporation for ch ev ron or mit tal for ac el or .
another type of defensive reaction – this time to outward fdi – may well arise once the off shoring of services ga thers more speed .
all indications are that off shoring has reached the tipping point , and more of it will take place through fdi .
if home countries do not put in place the adjustment mechanisms to deal with the rapidly unfolding revolution in making service industry jobs tradable , a backlash against such outward fdi will become inevitable .
the growing unease with fdi is so far largely confined to developed countries .
but there are signs that it is spreading to emerging markets .
in the case of large-scale projects , some host countries are raising questions about the contracts that define their relationship with tn c ’ s , and governments are re viewing such contracts because they believe ( rightly or wrongly ) that they did not get a fair deal .
of the 2 19 known international arbitration cases concerning investment projects , some two-thirds were initiated during the past three years .
approaches to fdi have changed in the past , and they can change again in the future , depending on how governments view the balance of costs and benefits .
this balance involves not only economic factors , but also such considerations as security and the desire to control one ’ s own economic development .
the concept of “ twenty-first-century nationalization , ” introduced by per u vian presidential candidate oll anta humala , mirrors in this respect the “ economic patriotism ” of french prime minister dominique de vil le pin .
reservations against fdi ( as against anything foreign ) can be found in all groups of countries , and politicians can bring them to the surface , resulting in protectionism .
it would be ironic , though , if developed countries – which led the fdi liberalization wave of the past two decades – now led a backlash against fdi .
let us hope that the de- liberalization seen in developed countries can be checked before it spreads to other parts of the world and ultimately brings undesirable consequences for all .
america ’ s hope against hope
new york – after a hard- fought election campaign , costing well in excess of $ 2 billion , it seems to many observers that not much has changed in american politics : barack obama is still president , the republicans still control the house of representatives , and the democrats still have a majority in the senate .
with america facing a “ fiscal cliff ” – automatic tax increases and spending cuts at the start of 2013 that will most likely drive the economy into recession unless bipartisan agreement on an alternative fiscal path is reached – could there be anything worse than continued political gridlock ?
in fact , the election had several sal u tary effects – beyond showing that unbridled corporate spending could not buy an election , and that demographic changes in the united states may doom republican extremism .
the republicans ’ explicit campaign of disenfranch is ement in some states – like pennsylvania , where they tried to make it more difficult for african-americans and lat inos to register to vote – backfired : those whose rights were threatened were motivated to turn out and exercise them .
some of mitt romney ’ s advisers seemed taken ab ack by obama ’ s victory : wasn ’ t the election supposed to be about economics ?
they were confident that americans would forget how the republicans ’ dereg ul atory zeal had brought the economy to the brink of ruin , and that voters had not noticed how their intransigence in congress had prevented more effective policies from being pursued in the wake of the 2008 crisis .
voters , they assumed , would focus only on the current economic malaise .
the republicans should not have been caught off- guard by americans ’ interest in issues like disenfranch is ement and gender equality .
while these issues strike at the core of a country ’ s values – of what we mean by democracy and limits on government intru sion into individuals ’ lives – they are also economic issues .
as i explain in my book the price of inequality , much of the rise in us economic inequality is attributable to a government in which the rich have disproportionate influence – & and use that influence to entren ch themselves .
obviously , issues like reproductive rights and gay marriage have large economic consequences as well .
in terms of economic policy for the next four years , the main cause for post-election celebration is that the us has avoided measures that would have pushed it closer to recession , increased inequality , imposed further hardship on the elderly , and impeded access to health care for millions of americans .
beyond that , here is what americans should hope for : a strong “ jobs ” bill – based on investments in education , health care , technology , and infrastructure – that would stimulate the economy , restore growth , reduce unemployment , and generate tax revenues far in excess of its costs , thus improving the country ’ s fiscal position .
they might also hope for a housing program that finally addresses america ’ s forec los ure crisis .
a comprehensive program to increase economic opportunity and reduce inequality is also needed – its goal being to remove , within the next decade , america ’ s distinction as the advanced country with the highest inequality and the least social mobility .
this implies , among other things , a fair tax system that is more progressive and eliminates the distortions and loopholes that allow speculators to pay taxes at a lower effective rate than those who work for a living , and that enable the rich to use the c ay man islands to avoid paying their fair share .
america – and the world – would also benefit from a us energy policy that reduces reliance on imports not just by increasing domestic production , but also by cutting consumption , and that recognizes the risks posed by global warming .
moreover , america ’ s science and technology policy must reflect an understanding that long-term increases in living standards depend upon productivity growth , which reflects technological progress that assumes a solid foundation of basic research .
finally , the us needs a financial system that serves all of society , rather than operating as if it were an end in itself .
that means that the system ’ s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies reforms of financial-sector regulation , and of anti- trust and corporate- governance laws , together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged cas inos .
globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation .
we might hop e that america will show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating for stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; in democratizing the international economic institutions ; and in providing assistance to poorer countries .
americans should hope for all of this , though i am not sangu ine that they will get much of it . & more likely , america will muddle through – here another little program for struggling students and homeowners , there the end of the bush tax cuts for mil lion aires , but no wholesale tax reform , serious cutbacks in defense spending , or significant progress on global warming .
with the euro crisis likely to continue unab ated , america ’ s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth .
even worse , in the absence of strong american leadership , longstanding global problems – from climate change to urgently needed reforms of the international monetary system – will continue to fester .
nonetheless , we should be grateful : it is better to be standing still than it is to be heading in the wrong direction .
are housing prices a house of cards ?
the first big city to boom was london , starting around 1996 . boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , to mi ami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , and van cou ver around 2002 .
these and other cities have been booming pretty much ever since ; prices in most are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 .
this has been a big windfall to homeowners , but has hurt anyone planning to buy .
now growth in home prices is weakening in some of these cities . the rate of price growth in london and new york slowed sharply over the past year , to only about a 1 % real increase in the second quarter of 2004 .
in sydney , home prices actually fell in the second quarter .
has the boom ended ? will no other cities benefit ?
no one predicted this boom , so predicting its end is risky .
housing prices have shown tremendous upward momentum in the face of previous warnings that the party is over .
any prediction concerning the boom 's end requires understanding why it occurred in so many places .
surprisingly , there is no well- received explanation , because this boom 's ultimate causes are mostly psychological .
economists would rather talk about interest rates or unemployment statistics - factors that are concrete and know able .
of course , these indicators do have a legitimate role to play in explaining housing markets , but they are simply not adequate to account for the recent booms .
three psychological causes stand out : first , a change in people 's perceptions about the source of value in a changing world economy ; second , increasing public faith in `` glam our '' cities with international name recognition ; and third , the plain g id dy dynamics of speculative bubbles .
each factor deserves greater attention if we are to understand current housing market conditions and discern future price trends .
first , the world economy does look more chaotic than it did a decade ago .
the crash in equity prices since 2000 in most countries has made financial assets look less secure , spurring a `` flight to quality '' - in this case , housing .
moreover , terrorism is now viewed as a problem for everyone , with major tragedies in indonesia , spain , and russia .
people feel saf est investing in their homes , and there is little reason to expect imminent change .
fear and upward momentum in home prices go together .
second , the public 's faith in glam orous international cities has increased with the explosive growth in global communications due to the internet and the cell phone .
just as people increasingly admire international celebr ities , so they believe that world famous centers of business , technology , and culture - whose names are household words to people everywhere - are uniquely valuable .
as with fear of terrorism and suspicion of equities , geographical celebr ity appears resilient , if not self-reinforcing : the more famous new york , paris , and london get , the more glam orous they become .
third , and no less important , is the speculative contagion that underlies any bubble .
the current boom has seen contagion within markets and across markets , as rising prices fuel popular excitement - and hence further price increases - in the same city , and then in other cities , even on the other side of the globe .
people in shanghai may not talk about london home prices , but shanghai 's opinion leaders know what is happening in london , and the boom there makes it seem plausible that there should be a boom in shanghai , too .
in contrast to the other two psychological causes , speculative contagion has a natural end .
a speculative bubble , sustaining itself solely by reaction to price increases , can not go on forever .
so , where does this leave us ?
two of the three psychological causes suggest continued upward momentum in housing prices , while the third suggests that the momentum will come to an end some day , but does not pin point when .
i am betting that some high- flying glam our cities will continue to see deceler ating growth in home prices - and eventually decreas es .
historically , housing prices have shown a lot of momentum , and prices in all these cities are still going up at a bris k rate , though usually somewhat slower than a year or more ago .
based on extrapol ation of growth trends , it looks safe to predict that prices will go up substantially in most of these places for another year or more , even as the rate of increase continues to decline .
the psychological factors are more important for longer-term forecasts , beyond a year , where momentum no longer plays an important role .
at this point , there is likely to be some downward instability in prices , because enthusiasm for investing in houses is likely to wane in line with declining price growth .
prices in glam our cities are likely to drop sharply the next time there is a serious recession , or if the local economy suffers a severe shock , or if interest rates rise too fast .
are humans getting better ?
melbourne – with daily headlines focusing on war , terrorism , and the abuses of repressive governments , and religious leaders frequently b emo an ing declining standards of public and private behavior , it is easy to get the impression that we are witnessing a moral collapse .
but i think that we have grounds to be optimistic about the future .
thirty years ago , i wrote a book called the expanding circle , in which i asserted that , historically , the circle of beings to whom we extend moral consideration has widened , first from the tri be to the nation , then to the race or ethnic group , then to all human beings , and , finally , to non- human animals .
that , surely , is moral progress .
we might think that evolution leads to the selection of individuals who think only of their own interests , and those of their kin , because genes for such traits would be more likely to spread .
but , as i argued then , the development of reason could take us in a different direction .
on the one hand , having a capacity to reason conf ers an obvious evolutionary advantage , because it makes it possible to solve problems and to plan to avoid dangers , thereby increasing the prospects of survival .
yet , on the other hand , reason is more than a neutral problem-solving tool . it is more like an escal ator : once we get on it , we are liable to be taken to places that we never expected to reach .
in particular , reason enables us to see that others , previously outside the b ounds of our moral view , are like us in relevant respects .
excluding them from the sphere of beings to whom we owe moral consideration can then seem arbitrary , or just plain wrong .
steven pin ker ’ s recent book the better ang els of our nature lends weigh ty support to this view . pin ker , a professor of psychology at harvard university , draws on recent research in history , psychology , cognitive science , economics , and soci ology to argue that our era is less violent , less cruel , and more peaceful than any previous period of human existence .
the decline in violence holds for families , neighborhoods , tribes , and states .
in essence , humans living today are less likely to meet a violent death , or to suffer from violence or cruelty at the hands of others , than their predecessors in any previous century .
many people will doubt this claim .
some hold a rosy view of the simpler , supposedly more plac id lives of tribal hun ter- gather ers relative to our own .
but examination of sk ele tons found at archa e ological sites suggests that as many as 15 % of pre historic humans met a violent death at the hands of another person . ( for comparison , in the first half of the twentieth century , the two world wars caused a death rate in europe of not much more than 3 % . )
even those tribal peoples ext oll ed by anthropolog ists as especially “ gent le ” – for example , the sem ai of malaysia , the k ung of the kal a har i , and the central arctic in u it – turn out to have murder rates that are , relative to population , comparable to detro it , which has one of the highest murder rates in the united states . in europe , your chance of being murdered is now less than one- tenth , and in some countries only one- fif ti eth , of what it would have been had you lived 500 years ago .
pin ker accepts that reason is an important factor underlying the trends that he describes .
in support of this claim , he refers to the “ flynn effect ” – the remarkable finding by the philosopher james flynn that since i q tests were first administered , scores have risen considerably .
the average i q is , by definition , 100 ; but , to achieve that result , raw test results have to be standardized .
if the average teen ager today took an i q test in 19 10 , he or she would score 130 , which would be better than 98 % of those taking the test then .
it is not easy to attribute this rise to improved education , because the aspects of the tests on which scores have risen the most do not require a good voc ab ul ary , or even mathematical ability , but instead assess powers of abstract reasoning .
one theory is that we have gotten better at i q tests because we live in a more symbol - rich environment .
flynn himself thinks that the spread of the scientific mode of reasoning has played a role .
pin ker argues that enhanced powers of reasoning give us the ability to det ach ourselves from our immediate experience and from our personal or parochial perspective , and frame our ideas in more abstract , universal terms .
this , in turn , leads to better moral commitments , including avoidance of violence .
it is just this kind of reasoning ability that improved during the twentieth century .
so there are grounds to believe that our improved reasoning abilities have enabled us to reduce the influence of those more impul sive elements of our nature that lead to violence .
if so , there would be no denying that we continue to face grave problems , including of course the threat of catastrophic climate change .
but there would nonetheless be some reason to hope for moral progress .
are humans worse than chernobyl ?
port sm ou th – nearly 30 years have passed since the nuclear accident at chernobyl , and the scientific community is still arguing about the impact radiation is having on the ecosystem surrounding the reactor .
recently , together with other scientists , i studied the animals in the human exclusion zone around the plant .
the results were shocking : whatever the impact of radiation on animals may be , the effects of human hab itation seem to have been a lot worse .
the site offers a stark reminder that humans ’ simple , physical presence in a habitat is more damaging than one of the twentieth century ’ s worst environmental catastrophes .
we studied animals in the nearly 2, 200- squ are - kilome ter ( 8 50 square miles ) sector of the exclusion zone in belarus called the “ pol es sy e state radi oec ological reserve . ”
before the disaster , this area was home to 2 2,000 people in 92 villages , and the land was farm ed and exploited for its forest resources .
in the days after the accident , the area ’ s human residents were evac uated with their farm animals to protect them from high levels of radiation .
even though radiation levels dropped by a factor of nearly 100 in the months after the accident , the area is still judged un fit for human hab itation .
there are few reports on the effects of the accident on wild animals , but we know that in some radiation hot spots trees and wildlife died .
some might expect that , nearly 30 years later , the area around the reactor remains a wast eland , spar sely populated by genetically damaged animals exposed to chronic radiation across multiple generations .
the reality is very different .
indeed , as early as a few years after the accident , data collected by belar us an scientists flying helicopter surveys over the abandoned area showed rising numbers of wild bo ar , el k , and ro e de er .
and , with the passage of time , the region ’ s wildlife population continued to grow , as animals made use of what people had left behind .
crops , gar dens , and or char ds provided abundant food supplies .
abandoned houses and farm buildings offered ready- made ne sts and dens .
by 1993 , the number of wild bo ar had increased six fold , before halving due to a disease outbreak and pre d ation from the rapidly growing wolf population .
our research shows that the number of large mam m als at chernobyl is similar to that in un contaminated nature reserves in belarus – except for wol ves , which are far more numerous in the area around the reactor .
the area is also home to lyn x and even a few brown bears .
nor do the population data show any link between radiation levels and mam mal den si ties ; the number of mam m als in the most contaminated parts of the zone is similar to that in the least contaminated parts .
to be sure , the fact that animals are thriving at chernobyl does not mean that radiation is good for wildlife .
radiation does cause dna damage , and at current levels we can not rule out some effects on the re production of individual animals .
but a comparison with what happened outside the affected area is instructive .
whatever damage radiation has wrought , human hab itation has caused far greater destruction .
indeed , in areas outside the zone or nature reserves , populations of el k and wild bo ar under went steep declines , as major socioeconomic changes after the fall of the soviet union worsened rural poverty and crippled wildlife management .
the lesson from chernobyl is that if nature is to thrive , it must be given space – from us .
the primary causes behind declining global biodiversity include habitat loss and fragmentation as a result of human activity .
demand for biofuels , for example , has been linked to deforestation .
it may also be time we consider embracing high-tech – even genetically modified – agriculture to provide the food we need on smaller areas of land , leaving more space for wildlife .
there are no easy solutions , of course , and all efforts to address the problem will be complicated by continuing rapid growth of the world ’ s human population .
but one thing is clear : we , as a species , need to think more carefully about our impact on the non human animal population and begin to take better account of these effects in our economic and environmental policies .
violence and innovation
abu dhabi – in the 1949 british film the third man , the character harry lim e obser ves that , during the b org ia family ’ s rule in renaissance italy , the country “ had warfare , terror , murder , and bloodshed .
but [ it ] produced michel angel o , leon ardo da v in ci , and the renaissance . ”
by contrast , he cont ends , switzerland ’ s 500 years of democracy and peace produced little more than the c uc ko o clock .
while the implication that innovation and creativity are born only of conflict is extreme – in fact , switzerland is a world leader in innovation – lim e makes a crucial point .
although peace , order , and political stability are widely perceived as essential prerequ is ites for invention , entrepreneurship , and economic development , there have been many exceptions to this rule – especially when it comes to creativity and innovation .
the united states is consistently ranked among the world ’ s top ten countries for innovation , including by in se ad ’ s global innovation index .
but , on the global peace index , it is ranked 8 8th of 15 3 countries .
likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , respectively , fifth and sixth on the innovation index , but only 2 8th and 2 9 th on the peace index .
conversely , bhutan is among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even make it onto innovation indices .
of course , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to cause a total breakdown of law and order significantly impede creativity and innovation .
but some countries show strong resilience in the face of pervasive violence and volatility .
for example , despite widespread violent crime , mexico and south africa have high levels of innovation ( measured by patent fil ing and trad em ark registration ) .
when terrorism indicators are taken into account , lebanon , turkey , jordan , and israel emerge as resilient innovators .
just as peace and stability do not always lead to creativity and innovation , fighting and uncertainty do not necessarily deter it .
although peace , political stability , and civil order are important factors to consider when selecting a location for a large-scale foreign production or service operation , they are far less important when it comes to sourcing creativity and making the related investments .
in particular , creative industries , such as anim ation , arts , design , and software – which are mostly based on individual skills and talent – tend to be more resilient to conflict than others .
given this , officials , investors , and business leaders in search of revolutionary ideas , cutting-edge solutions , and untapped talent should not allow turbulence in some societies , or tran qu ility in others , to influence their decisions excessively .
in fact , stepping out of one ’ s comfort zone may offer significant benefits .
some evidence suggests that the prevalence of uncertainty may boost competition , thereby spar king innovation .
furthermore , social environments that are characterized by lower levels of consensus and higher levels of violence may be more likely than their more harmonious counterparts to catalyze radical innovation .
lebanon ’ s experience supports this assessment .
despite its long history of political violence , its creative industries are expanding .
according to a 2007 study of lebanon ’ s copy right- based industries , conducted by the world intellectual property organization , the main challenges facing the country ’ s software sector – an important part of its economy – include restricted markets , intense competition , a brain drain ( loss of human capital ) , inadequate technology policy , a lack of government incentives , and rampant piracy .
violence is conspicuously absent from the list .
but countries like lebanon have become resistant to its effects – for example , by developing creative industries – diminishing its negative impact on economic , social , and intellectual development .
in 2005 , 10 % of all new businesses in lebanon were in the creative sector , and the copy right- based industries contributed 4. 75 % of gdp .
similarly , despite high levels of political violence , nigeria produces more than 1,000 films annually .
indeed , nigeria ’ s film industry is the world ’ s third largest , after the us and india , and is second only to oil production in terms of its economic significance to the country .
according to a 2010 united nations report on the creative economy , global trade in creative goods grew at an annual rate of 14 % from 2002 to 2008 .
meanwhile , exports of such goods from developing countries , which tend to experience more violence , grew at a rate of 1 3.5 % , reaching $ 17 6 billion ( 43 % of total world trade in creative industries ) in 2008 .
although overall global trade declined by 12 % that year , trade in creative goods and services continued to expand .
this has significant implications for political and business leaders – especially in turbulent regions like the middle east .
in order to bolster economic growth and innovation amid conflict and volatility , policymakers and investors should focus on building the creative industries .
the resilience and adap tability that they provide are crucial to supporting long-term economic growth and job creation – no matter what the future brings .
are services the new manufac tures ?
princeton – the global discussion about growth in the developing world has taken a sharp turn recently .
the hype and excitement of recent years over the prospect of rapid catch-up with the advanced economies have evapor ated .
few serious analysts still believe that the spectacular economic convergence experienced by asian countries , and less spectacularly by most latin american and african countries , will be sustained in the decades ahead .
the low interest rates , high commodity prices , rapid globalization , and post-cold war stability that underpinned this extraordinary period are unlikely to persist .
a second realization has sunk in : developing countries need a new growth model .
the problem is not just that they need to we an themselves from their reliance on fickle capital inflows and commodity booms , which have often left them vulnerable to shocks and prone to crises .
more important , export-oriented industrialization , history ’ s most certain path to riches , may have run its course .
ever since the industrial revolution , manufacturing has been the key to rapid economic growth .
the countries that caught up with and eventually surpassed britain , such as germany , the united states , and japan , all did so by building up their manufacturing industries .
following the second world war , there were two waves of rapid economic convergence : one in the european periphery during the 1950s and 1960s , and another in east asia since the 1960s .
both were based on industrial manufacturing .
china , which has emerged as the ar che type of this growth strategy since the 1970s , traveled a well- worn path .
but manufacturing today is not what it used to be .
it has become much more capital-  and sk ill- intensive , with greatly diminished potential to absorb large amounts of labor from the countryside .
while global supply chains have facilitated entry into manufacturing , they have also reduced the gains in terms of value added that accrue at home .
many traditional industries , such as textiles and steel , are likely to face shrinking global markets and over- capacity , driven by demand shifts and environmental concerns .
and one downside of china ’ s success is that many other countries are finding it much harder to establish more than a nic he in manufacturing .
as a consequence , developing countries are starting to de- industri alize and become more dependent on services at much lower levels of income than has been the pattern for developed countries – a phenomenon that i have called premature de- industrialization .
already , services contribute the bulk of gdp in developing countries , even in low-income countries where agriculture has traditionally played a big part .
young workers who leave the farm for the cities are increasingly absorbed into urban services jobs instead of manufacturing .
and international trade in services has tended to expand more rapidly than trade in goods .
among the optimists are e ja z gh ani and stephen d. o ’ connell of the world bank . in a recent paper , they argue that service industries could serve as a growth escal ator , the role traditionally assumed by manufacturing .
in particular , they show that services have exhib ited “ unconditional convergence ” in productivity recently .
that is , countries fur th est away from the global frontier of labor productivity have seen the fastest productivity growth in services .
this would be very good news , but there are reasons to be wary .
the gh an i- o ’ connell evidence includes data starting in the early 1990s , during which developing countries were experiencing economy-wide convergence , boosted by capital inflows and commodity wind falls .
it is unclear whether their conclusions extend to other periods .
two things make services different from manufacturing .
first , while some segments of services are tradable and are becoming more important in global commerce , these typically are highly sk ill- intensive sectors that employ comparatively few ordinary workers .
banking , finance , insurance , and other business services , along with information and communications technology ( ict ) , are all high- productivity activities that pay high wages .
they could act as growth escal ators in economies where the work force is adequately trained .
but developing economies typically have predominantly low-skilled labor forces .
in such economies , tradable services can not absorb more than a fraction of the labor supply .
that is why , for all of its success , the ict sector in india has not been a primary driver of economic growth .
by contrast , traditional manufacturing could offer a large number of jobs to workers straight off the farm , at productivity levels three to four times that in agriculture .
in today ’ s developing countries , the bulk of excess labor is absorbed in non-tradable services operating at very low levels of productivity , in activities such as retail trade and house work .
in principle , many of these activities could benefit from better technologies , improved organization , and greater form alization .
but here the second difference between services and manufacturing comes into play .
partial productivity gains in non-tradable activities are ultimately self- limiting , because individual service activities can not expand without turning their terms of trade against themselves – pushing down their own prices ( and profitability ) .
in manufacturing , small developing countries could thrive on the basis of a few export successes and diversify sequ entially through time – t- shir ts now , followed by the assembly of telev is ions and mic row a ve o vens , and on up the chain of skill and value .
by contrast , in services , where market size is limited by domestic demand , continued success requires complementary and simultaneous gains in productivity in the rest of the economy .
focusing on a few sectors yields no quick winning opportunities .
growth therefore must rely on the much slower accumulation of economy-wide capabilities in the form of human capital and institutions .
so i remain skeptical that a servic es -led model can deliver rapid growth and good jobs in the way that manufacturing once did .
even if the technological optimists are right , it is difficult to see how that will enable developing countries to sustain the kind of growth they experienced over the last couple of decades .
a “ reset ” bu tton for europe ’ s back yard
stockholm – one year after the war in georgia of last august , pushing the “ reset ” bu tton on diplomatic relations is a popular endeavor nowadays .
the european union , though not in need of a “ reset ” because of strained ties with its eastern neighbors , is involved in a deep strategic reconstruction of those relations .
when the eu launched its new “ eastern partnership ” in may , the purpose was to promote further integration with the union ’ s six immediate eastern neighbors – armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine .
the global financial crisis had made an updated and strengthened policy for the eu ’ s eastern neighborhood an urgent need .
equally important was the fact that all the countries concerned expressed an ambition to move closer to the eu .
the eastern partnership – origin ating from a pol ish / swedish initiative – offers to the six countries a substantial upgrading and deepening of relations with the eu in key areas .
in trade and economic relations , it clearly sets out the objective of establishing deep and comprehensive free-trade areas between the eu and the partner countries .
it confirms full visa liberalization as a long-term goal ( with visa facilitation agreements in the meantime ) , promises enhanced cooperation on energy security , diversification , and efficiency , and comes with dedicated programs and projects to help the neighbors in their integration and reform efforts in all these areas .
sweden ’ s assumption of the eu presidency this month should help these efforts .
however , it comes at a time when the union ’ s eastern neighborhood faces severe challenges , with the financial and economic crisis hitting many of the partner countries hard .
ukraine suffers from the sharp drop in global demand and trade , severely undermining its steel industry .
georgia ’ s economic success has been largely dependent on direct foreign investment , for which there is hardly any appetite today .
partner countries that are less integrated into the global market , such as moldova , have seen the crisis arrive more slowly , but the real effect might be equally as bad , and they are likely to recover more slowly .
the eastern partnership does not offer any quick remedies to the crisis .
but it can provide a political framework and institu tion- building support to improve the deficiencies that made these countries so vulnerable to the crisis : imperfect market economies , weak state institutions , and continued corruption .
the eastern partnership ’ s offer of deep integration with the eu in the areas such as trade and energy carries with it considerable transformational power .
the other type of crisis that most of the partner countries are enduring is political .
in most of these countries , democratic development has not yet reached a point where a change in government is a routine part of political life and can take place without risking the country ’ s stability .
the eastern partnership is based on the profound values of democracy , human rights , and the rule of law .
political association with the eu , and the process of integration under this partnership , will promote reforms in these key areas .
the swedish eu presidency will concentrate on starting up the concrete work – the nu ts and bol ts – of the partnership .
the establishment of “ comprehensive institu tion- building programs , ” designed to support reform of key institutions in each partner country , should take place before the year ’ s end .
some flag ship initiatives proposed by the european commission will finally see the light of day as well , and new projects and initiatives are likely to be developed .
here , sweden will att ach particular importance to energy efficiency programs , which will serve not only the purposes of enhancing energy security and reducing costs , but will also be an important contribution to the fight against climate change .
the swedish presidency , together with the european commission , intends to organize the first meeting of the eastern partnership civil society forum this autumn .
we hope to see the start of parliamentary cooperation , as well as exchanges between local and regional authorities of the thir ty- three eu and partner countries .
at the end of the year , a meeting of eu foreign ministers and their colleagues from the six partners will assess the progress made so far and give guidance on the way ahead .
the eastern partnership is about eu integration , about the six countries moving closer to the eu ’ s values , legislation , and ways of working , and about the eu being there to support and help this convergence .
in russia , there is a perception that is sometimes fostered which suggests that the partnership is directed against it .
but this , of course , is un true .
the eastern partnership is not an answer to all the problems and difficulties that the six partners are facing .
nevertheless , it does represent a clear commitment by the eu to lend its political and economic support to their transition and reform – a process that should bring prosperity and stability to the whole region .
are the saudis fanatics ?
terrorist attacks in saudi arabia have led many to question not only the ruling house of saud 's prospects for survival , but also whether the kingdom is fundamentally dysfunctional and destructive .
somehow , it seems , saudi society has produced a stream of violent fanati cism that draws its inspiration from extreme religious orthodoxy .
the fact that 15 of the 19 hi jac kers in the september 11 , 2001 , attacks on the united states were saudis cryst alli zed a long- held view of the kingdom as a bastion of authoritarianism and intolerance .
in some respects , this perception is accurate , but it can not be applied to the broad saudi public .
on the contrary , it would be a grave mistake to assume that fanati cal islamism fully defines saudi attitudes toward religion .
between 2001 and 2003 , i was part of a team that undertook an extensive survey of values in saudi arabia , egypt , iran , and jordan .
our results provide a surprisingly nuanced picture of saudi attitudes .
compared to respondents in the other middle eastern countries , saudis were less religious overall , and their attitudes toward democracy and arrang ed marriage also indicate a moderate under current .
to be sure , in all four countries , relig iosity is widespread , with more than 90 % of respondents collectively reporting that they believe in god , in life after death , and in heaven and hell .
but the saudis appear to be less religious than their fellow muslims .
six ty- two percent of saudis described themselves as religious , compared with 82 % of iranians , 85 % of jord an ians , and 98 % of egyptians .
americans also appear to be far more religious than saudis , with 81 % describing themselves that way .
some of this variation may be explained by cross- national differences regarding what it means to be religious . for example , americans may define relig iosity differently than middle east er ners , with perhaps a weaker attachment to religious beliefs than is true in islamic countries .
this might also account in part for the differences between muslim countries .
but the gap in self- defined relig iosity between saudis , on the one hand , and iranians , jord an ians , and egyptians , on the other , is so great that it challenges the prevalent perception of saudi arabia as a highly conservative and religious society .
indeed , actions speak louder than words : only 28 % of saudis said that they participate in weekly religious services , compared to 27 % of iranians , 44 % of jord an ians , 42 % of egyptians , and 45 % of americans .
these findings , while running contrary to popular perceptions of saudi culture , are less startling than they appear .
soci ologists of religion have long argued that in a mon ol ith ic religious environment , or when religious institutions are closely tied to the state , the overall relig iosity of the public declines .
it makes sense to think that when state authorities enforce strict codes of behavior , people tend to rebel and move away from officially sanctioned religious institutions .
little wonder , then , that egyptians and jord an ians , who live in countries where the state does not enforce p iety , are more religious than iranians or saudis , who must cope with local `` virtue '' police backed by the state .
even on marriage , many saudis expressed surprisingly liberal views .
respondents were nearly evenly split on the question of arrang ed marri ages , with half supporting the idea that marriage should be based on parental consent , while 48 % preferred love as the basis of mat rim ony .
given entrenched gender segregation and pat er nal dominance , this finding appears to reveal a strong desire for greater individual choice in what has traditionally been a family- driven decision .
finally , the saudis turn out to be strong supporters of democracy , once again contradic ting a popular image of saudi conservatism .
of the saudis pol led , 58 % considered democracy the best form of government , 23 % dis agreed , and 18 % did not express an opinion .
majority support for democracy in a country with no prior secular and nationalist history seems counter- intuitive .
supporters of democracy tend to be less religious , more secular , more tolerant of others , more critical of public-sector performance , and more concerned with western cultural invasion .
beyond the survey data , history has shown that liberal ideas become more popular when a despotic mon arch governs people in alliance with a religious establishment .
a strong current of liberalism appeared in the late nineteenth century in ottoman syria in response to the religious despo tism of sultan abdul hamid .
at the same time , an anti- clerical , secular movement on behalf of constitu tionalism appeared in iran - a reaction to the absolu ti st alliance between the qu aj ar sha hs and the religious establishment .
in view of the similarities between those historical precedents and current conditions in saudi arabia , we ought not to rule out the possibility of reform .
now survey data , too , suggest that saudis may well begin demanding a more transparent politics and a less interventionist religion .
are us middle-class incomes really stagnating ?
cambridge – the challenge of raising the incomes of middle-class families has emerged as an important focus of the presidential election campaign in the united states .
everyone agrees that incomes at the top have surged ahead in recent decades , helped by soaring rewards for those with a high-tech education and rising share prices .
and there is general support for improving programs – such as food st amps and me ans - tested retire e benefits – that help those who would otherwise be poor .
but the public debate is largely about how to help the more numerous ( and politically more important ) middle class .
here , much can be done by improving existing government programs : expanding market- relevant training , increasing opportunities for married women to join or re join the labor force , reducing the penalties in social security rules for continued employment by older workers , and changing tax rules in ways that will increase productivity and wages .
but , while strengthening such programs should be a high priority , we should not lose sight of how well middle-income families have actually done over the past few decades .
unfortunately , the political debate is distorted by misleading statistics that grossly under state these gains .
for example , it is frequently said that the average household income has risen only slightly , or not at all , for the past few decades .
some us census figures seem to support that conclusion .
but more accurate government statistics imply that the real incomes of those at the middle of the income distribution have increased about 50 % since 1980 .
and a more appropriate adjustment for changes in the cost of living implies a substantially greater gain .
the us census bureau estimates the money income that households receive from all sources and identifies the income level that divides the top and bottom hal ves of the distribution .
this is the median household income .
to compare median household incomes over time , the authorities divide these annual dollar values by the consumer price index to create annual real median household incomes .
the resulting numbers imply that the cumulative increase from 1984 through 2013 was less than 10 % , equivalent to less than 0.3 % per year .
any adult who was alive in the us during these three decades re alizes that this number grossly under states the gains of the typical household .
one indication that something is wrong with this figure is that the government also estimates that real hourly compensation of employees in the non- farm business sector rose 39 % from 1985 to 2015 .
the official census estimate suffers from three important problems .
for starters , it fails to recognize the changing composition of the population ; the household of today is quite different from the household of 30 years ago .
moreover , the census bureau ’ s estimate of income is too narrow , given that middle-income families have received increasing government transfers while benefiting from lower income-tax rates .
finally , the price index used by the census bureau fails to capture the important contributions of new products and product improvements to americans ’ standard of living .
consider first the changing nature of households .
when the non partisan congressional budget office ( cbo ) conducted a detailed study of changes in household incomes from 1979 to 2011 , it expanded the definition of income to include near- cash benefits like food st amps and in- kind benefits like health care .
it also sub tracted federal taxes , which fell from 19 % of pre tax income for middle-income households in 1980 to just 1 1.5 % in 2010 .
to convert annual incomes to real incomes , the cbo used the price defl ator for consumer expenditures , which many believe is better for this purpose than the consumer price index .
the cbo also presented a separate analysis that adjusted for household size .
with the traditional definition of money income , the cbo found that real median household income rose by just 15 % from 1980 to 2010 , similar to the census bureau ’ s estimate .
but when they expanded the definition of income to include benefits and sub tracted taxes , they found that the median household ’ s real income rose by 45 % .
adjusting for household size boosted this gain to 53 % .
and , again , even this more substantial rise probably represents a substantial underestimate of the increase in the real standard of living .
the authorities arrive at their estimates by converting dollar incomes into a measure of real income by using a price index that reflects the changes in the prices of existing goods and services .
but that price index does not reflect new products or improvements to existing goods and services .
thus , if everyone ’ s money incomes rose by 2 % from one year to the next , while the prices of all goods and services also rose by 2 % , the official calculation would show no change in real incomes , even if new products and important quality improvements contributed to our wellbeing .
indeed , the us government does not count the value created by internet services like google and facebook as income at all , because these services are not purchased .
no one knows how much such product innovations and improvements have added to our wellbeing .
but if the gains have been worth just 1 % a year , over the past 30 years that would cum ulate to a gain of 35 % .
and combining that with the cbo estimate of a gain of about 50 % would imply that the real income of the median household is up nearly 2.5 % a year over the past 30 years .
so the us middle class has been doing much better than the statistical pessimists assert .
and with better policies , these households can do even better in the future .
are we five years wiser ?
as the fifth anniversary of the september 11 , 2001 , attacks on the united states by al-qaeda approaches , we should take the opportunity to assess the results of the response by the us and the international community .
the attacks and the response to them have obviously brought about a sea change in international relations , but it would be difficult to argue that further atrocities have become less likely as a result .
why are we no more secure than we were five years ago ?
within a week of the attacks , president george w. bush declared a “ war on terrorism . ”
the metaphor of war has the sing ular advantage that it clearly and strongly evo kes the intensity of the counter attack that was called for .
moreover , the metaphor of war constitutes an implicit appeal to intense mobilization , not only by a country that comes under attack , but also by its friends and allies .
naturally , no one questions america ’ s right to defend itself .
the legitimacy of a violent counter attack has never been in doubt .
but the war metaphor also carries inevitable con not ations that , when applied to terrorism , are misleading and counterproductive .
whenever war is invoked , it implies a fight against nations , peoples , or states .
it implies that whole territories and the populations living there are to be considered hostile .
on all of these points , the concept of war , to paraphrase us defense secretary donald rumsfeld , is not helpful .
even if the scale of the september 11 attack was of such a dimension that only the american army seemed able to face the challenge , in technical terms dealing with a threat that is extra- national rather than international is a matter of police techniques , not military tactics .
the negative consequences of this mistaken vision very quickly became apparent .
it is now widely known that the us government , perhaps partly un consciously , embraced a deeply distorted image of al-qaeda that portrayed it as a hierarchical organization with a seam less command structure – the proto type of a foe that the american army could attack and destroy .
but al-qaeda – the word means “ the base ” or “ the camp , ” that is , nothing more or less than a point of gathering and training – is more like a blurred sphere of influence , comprising individuals and small local cells that act on their own initiative and cooperate very rarely , and only for large-scale operations .
it has not been proved that the attacks in london , madrid , or bali in the years since the september 11 plot , or the attack on america ’ s war ship the us s col e in 2000 , reflected the existence of a “ center ” that coordinated the operations or gave orders to carry them out .
it is also wrong to confl ate islamic terrorism with that of the bas que e ta , sri lanka ’ s tamil tigers , or the irish republican army .
whereas these groups have a territorial base and are preoccupied with national aims , islamic terrorism appears to be the work of a very small number of individuals who seek to av enge the cent uri es- long “ humiliation ” of the muslim world , brought about by colon ization , absence of economic development , and political weakness .
the goal of islamic terrorists is nothing less than the destruction of the “ hegemonic ” western world , despite most muslim nations ’ desire to live in peace within the international community and to cooperate in crafting effective development strategies .
the only viable strategy for confronting the threat of islamic terrorism was , and continues to be , a search for agreement among muslims , and among the leaders of muslim nations , on the forms of mutual cooperation , including police cooperation , that are needed to isolate , weaken , or destroy the militants in their midst .
this is a long and difficult enterprise , but there remains no alternative .
instead , the war metaphor continues to define the us response and that of several of america ’ s allies .
the attraction of this metaphor may be attributable to the excessive trust that americans place not only in their army , which is understandable , but in force in general , which is much less understandable in the case of an intelligent people .
whatever the case , casting the fight against terrorism as a war has led american policymakers to multiply violent military operations that have absolutely no chance of winning hearts and minds in the muslim world .
afghanistan was the only case where a military response was understandable : its government had , after all , given al-qaeda a temporary territorial home .
but to impl icate iraq , which had nothing to do with al-qaeda or the september 11 attacks , was a huge mistake , one that has strengthened islamic extremists and has probably helped them recruit terrorists .
moreover , the us response has strengthened israel ’ s belief in the effectiveness of military methods , leading to the recent war in lebanon and the ongoing invasion of gaza .
powerless , the international community does nothing .
the rigidity and brutality of america ’ s behavior – resulting in many times more civilian deaths than occurred on september 11 – have blocked any useful intervention by countries such as algeria , morocco , jordan , saudi arabia , or the united arab emirates .
likewise , the appeal of war has ruled out the prospect of serious negotiations between israel , syria , and lebanon .
by attacking one muslim country after another , the us and its allies have created the impression that islam itself is the enemy , leading inexorably to the “ clash of civilizations ” that america says it wants to avoid .
but america ’ s strategy has failed .
force can not accomplish everything .
the international community must say clearly that islam is not our enemy and that terrorism must be fought in other ways .
muslim political leaders , for their part , should declare just as openly that terrorism is not their choice .
if both sides can stifle their murderous devi ances , the hope of cultural and political reconciliation will be re born .
are we running out of oil ( again ) ?
oil prices are now running well above $ 50 a barrel , partly owing to short-run supply shocks , such as the iraq conflict , nigerian labor disputes , the conflict between yukos oil and the russian government , and florida 's recent hurricanes .
oil prices may fall once these shocks dissip ate , but speculative effects could keep them relatively high , weakening the world economy and depressing stock markets .
high oil prices fuel public discussion about the future of oil prices .
the outcome of any public discussion can never be known with certainty , but chances are that it will amplify stories that imply risks of higher oil prices .
experts may say that short-run supply factors caused the recent price increases , but the price increases will nonetheless lend credibility to scar ier long-term stories .
the sc ary story that is being amplified now concerns the developing world , notably china and india , where rapid economic growth - and no restrictions on emissions under the kyoto protocol - are seen as creating ins ati able demands for oil .
the story 's premise is that the world will run out of oil faster than we thought , as these billions of people chase their dreams of big houses and sport utility vehicles .
is this plausible ?
certainly , china , india , and some other emerging countries are developing fast .
but experts find it difficult to spec ify the long-run implications of this for the energy market .
too many factors remain fu z zy : the rate of growth of these countries ' energy demand , discoveries of new oil reserves , developments in oil- saving technology , and the ultimate replacement of oil by other energy sources .
but what matters for oil prices now and in the foreseeable future is the perception of the story , not the ambig u ities behind it .
if there is a perception that prices will be higher in the future , then prices will tend to be higher today .
that is how markets work .
if it is generally thought that oil prices will be higher in the future , owners of oil reserves will tend to postpone costly investments in exploration and expansion of production capacity , and they may pump oil at below capacity .
they would rather sell their oil and invest later , when prices are higher , so they restrain increases in supply .
expectations become self-fulfilling , oil prices rise , a speculative bubble is born .
but if owners of oil reserves think that prices will fall in the long run , they gain an incentive to explore for oil and expand production now in order to sell as much oil as possible before the fall .
the resulting supply surge drives down prices , reinforces expectations of further declines , and produces the in verse of a speculative bubble : a collapse in prices .
all of this may seem obvious , but we tend not to think of oil prices as being determined by expectations of future prices .
for example , in january 1974 , when the first world oil crisis began , oil prices doubled in just days .
the immediate cause was believed to have been israel 's stunning success in the y om k ip pur war , which led arab oil producers to retaliate by cho king off output .
the second crisis , in 1979 , is usually attributed to supply disruptions from the persian gulf following the islamic revolution in iran and the subsequent start of the iran- iraq war .
why , then , did real inflation- corrected oil prices remain at or above their 1974 levels until 1986 ?
speculative pressures are likely to have been at work , influencing the decisions of opec and many others .
although changes in market psychology are difficult to understand , the broad concerns that underlie such episodes of irrational exuberance are almost always clear .
for example , in 1972 , scientists at the massachusetts institute of technology , including computer pioneer j ay for re ster , published the limits to growth .
the book launched an international debate on whether the world would soon face immense economic problems due to shortages of oil and other natural resources - problems that seemed to be pres aged by opec 's production cuts eigh teen months later .
the second crisis was immediately preceded by the accident at the three- mile island nuclear reactor in pennsylvania in march 1979 , which reinvigor ated the anti- nuclear movement .
with nuclear power - regarded as the main technological bulwark against depletion of the world 's oil supplies - suddenly suspect , oil prices doubled again by the year 's end .
after 1979 , fears about limits to growth and nuclear power eb bed .
but the current rise in oil prices shows that people are still eager to embrace `` running out of oil '' stories - this time focused on china and india - even when short-run factors are to blame .
indeed , the international energy agency noted in september that the usual relationship between oil prices and inventory levels has broken down , with prices much higher than the usual relationship would suggest .
the iea 's report calls this breakdown evidence of a `` structural shift in the market . ''
but the same pattern followed the 197 3-4 and 197 9- 80 oil crises , when prices dropped from their highest peaks , but stayed quite high for years , representing a drag on the stock market , the housing market , and the world economy .
let 's hope that the effects of the present spike will be more short-lived .
but do n't hold your breath .
are we still evolving ?
new haven – many public-policy decisions are based on implicit assumptions about “ human nature , ” and it is currently popular to speculate about how evolution might have shaped human behavior and psychology .
but this raises some important questions : are humans continuing to evolve – and , if so , is our basic biological nature changing – or has modern culture stopped evolution ?
for some traits , we do not have to speculate – we can measure and compare on the basis of studies covering thousands of individuals over several generations .
such studies have not yet been done on most of the traits where speculation is popular , but they have been done on some traits of medical interest .
what have we learned ?
scientists are taking two approaches . in one , they sequence the dna of particular genes in many individuals with or without some determined health condition and look for differences between the two groups .
this genetic approach measures effects that have accumulated over hundreds to thousands of generations , and the message is clear : humans have evolved in these respects fairly recently , some in one direction , some in another , depending on their environment and other conditions encountered .
from this approach , we have learned , for example , that the ability to dig est milk as adults evolved within the last 10,000 years – and several times – in cultures that domes tic ated she ep , go ats , or cattle .
similar studies have taught us that sensitivity to alcohol consumption and resistance to diseases like malaria and leprosy also evolved within the last several thousand years .
some scientists , myself included , have taken a different approach .
instead of looking for changes in genes that take many generations to accumulate until they can be detected , we have measured natural selection directly .
this method can reveal selection in action , working over periods of time as short as one generation – so that it can answer the question of whether modern culture has stopped evolution .
the message of this approach is also clear : natural selection continues to operate in modern cultures .
whether it will operate consistently enough for a long enough time to produce significant genetic change can be answered only by future generations .
nevertheless , it is interesting to see in what direction natural selection is starting to shape us .
some of the answers are surprising .
we measured natural selection operating on women in fram ing ham , massachusetts , where a long-term medical study on heart disease produced the data that we used .
the women were born between 18 92 and 1956 . we found significant selection and projected that if it continued for ten generations , the women would evolve to be about two centi meters shorter and have their first child about five months earlier .
this is a surprising result , because women in developed countries have become t all er thanks to better nutrition , and are having children later in life for many reasons , some of them cultural .
so what is going on here ?
three things :
first , we know that giving birth for the first time when younger carries a cost in increased infant mortality , but modern medicine and hygiene have strikingly reduced infant mortality , reducing the cost of younger age at first birth .
and we expect those younger women to be shorter simply because they have had less time to grow .
in five other cases , scientists found women in developed countries maturing earlier , in two of them at smaller size ( in the other three cases , size was not measured ) .
it is too early to say that this is a general trend , but right now , all signs point that way .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first gave birth when younger had more children .
but genes are only one of many factors that influence height and age at first birth .
personal decisions , nutrition , income level , education , and religious aff iliation all enter the mix .
when we estimated how much of the variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % .
that left 95 % of the variation to be explained by the effects of culture and individual decisions .
but , while the effects of biology on the traits that we measured are relatively small for humans living in complex modern cultures , even small effects , when repeated consistently , will accumulate .
third , traits like these are always the result of interactions between genes and environment .
a woman could have genes that would tend to make her t all er than average but end up shorter than average if she had been poorly nourished as a child .
if evolution took its steady course and changed the genetic basis of height and age at first birth , we might not see women ten generations later who were shorter and mat ured earlier , for the effects of nutrition and culture could more than compensate for the genetic change . as a colleague of mine likes to put it , one good school- lunch program could be enough to obscure the biological effects .
even when we focus on a simple physical trait like height , natural selection in humans turns out to be a multifaceted and nuanced process .
similar studies on human behavior and psychology , where caus ation is more complex , remain beyond our grasp .
in such cases , silence may be wiser than speculation .
the roots of argentina ’ s surprise crisis
new york – the currency scare that argentina suffered last month caught many by surprise .
in fact , a set of risky bets that argentina ’ s government undertook starting in december 2015 increased the country ’ s vulnerability .
what was not clear was when argentina ’ s economy would be put to the test .
when the test came , argentina failed .
argentina had to address a number of macroeconomic imbalances when president maur ic io macri took office at the end of 2015 .
early measures included the removal of exchange-rate and capital controls and the reduction of taxes on commodity exports .
argentina also recovered access to international credit markets following a settlement with so-called vul ture funds over a debt dispute that had lasted more than a decade .
the government undertook a new macroeconomic approach based on two pillars : gradual reduction of the primary fiscal deficit , and an ambitious inflation-targeting regime that was supposed to bring annual price growth down to a single- digit rate in just three years .
markets che ered .
the prevailing view , eagerly promoted by argentina ’ s government , was that the country had done what was necessary to achieve sustainably faster economic growth .
presumably , foreign direct investment would flow in .
but it did not .
instead , argentina suffered stagflation in 2016 , followed by a debt- based recovery in 2017 .
then , a few weeks ago , markets stopped che ering , expectations sou red , and capital fled .
the peso depreciated 19 % against the us dollar in just the first three weeks of may .
contrary to macri ’ s hopes , his reforms attracted mainly short-term portfolio capital and financing in the form of bonds , both in foreign and domestic currency , rather than foreign direct investment .
argentina ’ s central bank bears a significant share of the responsibility ; while its approach proved largely ineffective in reducing inflation to the target level ( the annual rate is still at about 25 % ) , high interest rates encouraged inflows of speculative capital , which worsened the external imbalances and heightened argentina ’ s vulnerability to external shocks .
as part of their inflation-targeting approach , the central bank has been steril izing a large share of the increases in the monetary base through the sale of central banks bonds ( le bac s ) .
this means that the public sector has been effectively financing through short-run central bank debt issuance the largest part of the sizable primary fiscal deficit ( 4.2 % and 3. 83 % of gdp in 2016 and 2017 , respectively ) .
the issuance of le bac s has been massive , soaring by 3 45 % since december 2015 .
this might have been sustainable had early expectations of argentina ’ s prospects been valid ated .
there were obviously trade-offs .
less aggressive sterilization would have contained the growth in central bank debt that has now proven to be so risky , and it would have prevented upward pressure on the exchange rate ; but it would have led to higher inflation .
nonetheless , attempting to reduce inflation and the fiscal deficit at similar spe eds would have been a more prudent approach .
after all , macroeconomic policy decisions should not be made on the basis of the most optimistic scenario when the cost of missed expectations is large .
the currency crisis finally revealed argentina ’ s vulnerabilities .
looking ahead , the country will be exposed to several different sources of risk .
first , there is still a large stock of le bac s .
and every time a significant portion of that debt falls due , argentina will be a hostage of financial markets ’ mood .
this will increase the expected exchange-rate volatility , which may create opportunities for speculative financial investments , but will discourage investments in the real economy .
second , because the public sector ’ s foreign- currency- denominated debt is much higher than it was two years ago , the increase in exchange-rate risk will also call into question the sustainability of public-sector debt .
to assess where argentina is heading after the crisis requires highlighting several salient elements of how the episode was managed .
first , the central bank lost 10 % of its total stock of foreign-exchange reserves in just a month .
second , the annual nominal interest rate on the le bac s was raised to 40 % – the highest in the world , and a move that risks creating a snow ball of central-bank debt .
third , and most shocking for argent ines , macri announced that the country would seek a stand - by agreement with the international monetary fund .
thus , if argentina ’ s public sector falls into a state of debt distress in the coming years , it will have to submit to the tu tel age of the imf – a creditor in itself , but also an institution that is dominated by international creditors .
at that point , the conditionality that the imf typically imposes in exchange for financing could cause severe damage .
most worrisome is that the inflation-targeting approach that has exacerbated argentina ’ s external imbalances has been reaffirmed .
it would thus not be surprising if a new cycle of real exchange-rate appreciation starts in 2019 .
with a presidential election next year , that would be good news for macri ; but it would not bode well for argentina ’ s future .
ultimately , because macri ’ s approach to putting argentina ’ s economy on a sustained growth path has so far failed , and has increased the country ’ s dependence on international creditors , his administration still faces the challenge of avoiding a debt crisis .
to protect economic activity and redress vulnerabilities , the strategy of gradually reducing the primary fiscal deficit should be maintained .
that means finally recognizing that attempting to reduce inflation at a much faster rate than the fiscal deficit entails costly risks .
the prudent path also requires a gradual reduction in the stock of le bac s , recognizing that greater inflationary pressure in the short term is the price of minimizing the risk of higher external imbalances and larger exchange-rate depreci ations down the road .
and it would certainly be a mistake to continue reducing the tax on soy bean exports , as macri ’ s administration has announced it will do .
further tax cuts would increase the deficit , while benefiting a sector that already enjoys rents .
a change in macroeconomic policies is not sufficient to set argentina on a path of inclusive and sustained economic development ; but it is necessary .
at the outset of macri ’ s administration , there were warnings that he had chosen a high-risk approach .
unfortunately , those warnings were ignored .
the strategy we are recomm ending is not without its own risks .
but we are convinced that it offers a viable and s ounder path forward .
the way out of argentina ’ s new crisis
santiago – the late mit economist r ü dig er dor n bus ch used to tell his students in the 1980s that there are four kinds of countries : rich , poor , japan , and argentina .
no one fre ts anymore about japan buying its way to world domination .
but the world is worrying again about argentina .
the country has just suffered another textbook attack on its currency .
on april 24 , the yield on ten-year us treasury bonds broke 3 % for the first time since 2014 .
on the same day , investors began dumping argentine pes os and seeking the security of a surging dollar .
to stabilize its currency at a much- depreciated rate , argentina had to jack up interest rates to 40 % and seek help from the international monetary fund .
after all the turmoil , markets have been calm for a for tn ight .
now is the time to assess what went wrong , and what the country can – and must – do to prevent instability from returning .
since december 2015 , a market- friendly reformer has governed argentina .
compared to the c roo ks and demagogues who preceded him in office ( not long ago , one was fil med st ashing millions in cash behind the al tar of a local mon ast ery ) , president maur ic io macri and his team of well- trained technocrats are a massive improvement .
because none of macri ’ s team had previously held national office , analysts and investors initially underestimated their political skills .
until now , macri has shown he can be an able administr ator and an ast ute politician .
the currency crisis could not have happened to a nic er guy .
but it did .
it all began with an ill- f ated press conference last december , at which the 2018 inflation target was relaxed from 8- 12 % to 15 % .
the new figure was a reasonable admission that the earlier target could not be reached without wrec king the economy .
but having macri ’ s chief of staff seated at the table during the announcement , alongside the economic team , raised concerns of political meddling .
two subsequent interest-rate cuts , totaling 150 basis points , did not help credibility .
but in late march , concerned by the effect of a weakening currency on inflation , the central bank once again began intervening , and appeared to be fixing the exchange rate at around 20 pes os per dollar .
investors naturally asked whether this amounted to a change in policy regime .
mindful of a long history of failed attempts at economic “ shock therapy , ” macri decided to fix the fiscal mess he inherited only gradually .
he cut fuel and power subsidies and some unnecessary expenditures , but also decided – quite reasonably – to reduce export taxes in order to spur growth .
the result is that the fiscal deficit has fallen , but still hover s at 5.5 % of gdp .
the government has had to borrow abroad massively to cover the shortfall .
critics claim that the fiscal adjustment was too slow for comfort , yet markets seem un concerned that in neighboring brazil the headline budget gap is 8 % of gdp .
yes , argentina ’ s current-account deficit exceeds 5 % of gdp , while brazil ’ s external position is nearly balanced .
but that only shows that argentina ’ s private sector is investing what it saves , while brazil ’ s private firms are deleveraging fast and investing very little , if at all .
in argentina , gradual fiscal adjustment seemed like a plausible strategy until us interest rates spi ked and the dollar surged .
with concerns over emerging-market creditworthiness making a comeback , argentina and turkey were first in line to take the hit .
but while the turkish government has di thered and the situation there continues to deteriorate , argentine authorities bit the bullet and took decisive action .
going to the imf imposes a political cost , but it had to be done : only with sufficient firepower can argentina convince investors that debts will be paid and the currency will not keep plunging .
shock and a we is now the name of the game .
the sharp rise in domestic interest rates was necessary not only to stabilize the currency , but also to make it attractive for investors to roll over large amounts of peso bonds coming due in early may .
the rol lo ver succeeded , and the peso stabilized at 25 per dollar .
what comes next ?
the carry trade today is very attractive , especially for longer- maturity securities , because the break - even point occurs at the most depreciated real exchange rate in decades .
if the argentine peso turns out to be stronger than that in real terms , which it probably will , investors stand to profit hand som ely .
so the smart money right now is betting on the peso , not against it .
but interest rates at 40 % can not be sustained for long without harming credibility .
markets must be persuaded that a gradual reduction in rates is both plausible and sustainable .
to avoid an unsustainable snow ball , the central bank is likely to lower interest rates gradually after the details of the imf package are announced .
one bit of good news is that rol lo ver risk on domestic bonds is not nearly as high as some newspaper headlines have suggested , because the lion ’ s share is held by local banks and public-sector entities that have large and stable liquidity needs .
the imf , for its part , must move quickly .
but it also must understand that too abrupt a fiscal adjustment can cause a political backlash that jeopardi zes the credibility of the overall package .
the per onist opposition , until now weakened and divided , is hoping to make a comeback by triggering protests against budget cuts and additional energy- price adjustments .
the fund , precisely because it is an international institution that is above local politics , should be careful not to give one of the competing sides all the ammunition it needs in the run-up to the october 2019 presidential election .
none of this amounts to handing the argentine authorities a blan k check .
occasional interventions when the exchange rate is severely mis aligned are not uncommon under inflation targeting and floating rates .
it is incumbent upon the central bank to ensure that market participants understand this .
the success of a liberal reformist approach in argentina matters far beyond the country ’ s borders .
populists of the right and the left , some with authoritarian lean ings , lead opinion polls in brazil and mexico ahead of presidential elections in both countries later this year .
with populists already holding power in the us , europe , and asia , their return in latin america ’ s two most populous countries would have global ramifications .
with the right policies and strong support from the international community , argentina can show that another way is possible .
the destructive power of inflation
cambridge – when i was in argentina last week , i was reminded of the devastating power of high inflation .
argentina ’ s annual inflation rate is now about 20 % , down from an estimated rate of about 40 % last year .
the central bank is struggling to keep the economy on a dis inflationary path , with a goal of achieving a 5 % rate three years from now .
inflation in argentina has been much higher in the past .
for the 15 years from 1975 to 1990 , the annual rate averaged a remarkable 300 % , meaning that the price level doubled every few months , on average .
prices rose at an explosive annual rate of more than 1,000 % in 1989 , before inflation was finally brought under control .
in fact , inflation was all but extingu ished .
i remember being in argentina in the mid- 1990s , when there was virtually no inflation .
back then , the argentine peso was pegged to the us dollar , and both currencies were used equally for day-to-day transactions on the streets of buenos aires .
but the subsequent collapse of the peso ’ s dollar peg , and the forced conversion of dollar contracts into peso contracts at a non- market exchange rate , caused inflation to soar .
by 2003 , the annual rate had increased to 40 % .
it then fell to 10 % for a few years .
but it rose again during the presid encies of né st or kirchner and his wife and successor , cristina fern án dez de kirchner , to 25 % .
it finally jumped back up to 40 % in 2016 , propelled by the removal of distor tionary price subsidies that had previously been used to disguise the true inflation rate .
the recent high rates of inflation , and the public ’ s memory of even higher rates in the past , have severely harmed argentina ’ s economy .
because market interest rates rise to compensate for high inflation , even the government must now pay an interest rate of about 25 % to borrow in pes os for short periods .
lenders are unwilling to provide long-term credit at fixed interest rates , because a jump in inflation would destroy the value of their bonds and loans .
households and businesses are reluctant to finance long-term investments with short-term loans or with vari able- interest-rate loans , because a jump in inflation would cause their interest payments to rise sharply .
indeed , argentina ’ s history of high and variable inflation has destroyed the domestic mortgage market , making it impossible for a household to use a mortgage to buy a home .
businesses are also reluctant to borrow , because they recall how previous increases in inflation – and thus in interest rates – pushed otherwise healthy companies into bankruptcy .
the life insurance industry has been destroyed by high and uncertain inflation as well .
given that no one knows what the peso will be worth when future claims are paid , why would anyone buy insurance with today ’ s pes os ?
but when the inflation rate is changing rapidly , it is hard to know what the contemporary rate even is .
the previous government tried to dece ive the public by publishing inflation estimates that experts agreed were far lower than the true rate of price growth .
as one argentine friend explained , the government fired the statisti ci ans who had tried to provide accurate measures of inflation and replaced them with political allies who would produce artificially low numbers .
as he put it , they “ changed government statistics from a technical problem to a creative art . ”
in the years when the government allowed argent in ians to convert their pes os into dollars and take them out of the country , people who had financial wealth moved their money into investments in the united states .
i am told that there is much more argent in ian investment wealth in the us than in argentina .
as a result of this outflow of funds , investment in argentina is low , holding down productivity and growth .
gross capital formation represents only 17 % of gdp in argentina , compared to 23 % in chile and mexico .
although president maur ic io macri ’ s new government is determined to reduce inflation and achieve price stability , it is politically costly to do so .
tight money and high interest rates depress demand and have caused real gdp to decline .
at the same time , the public can not perceive a reduction of inflation from 20 % to 15 % .
so the government must pay a short-term political price to achieve a long-term economic gain .
argentina ’ s experience holds two crucial lessons for other countries .
first , price stability is fragile , and the inflation rate can rise rapidly .
and , second , high rates of inflation remain in the public ’ s memory and have long-lasting adverse effects .
it is important to achieve price stability ; but it is just as important to maintain it , by continually managing monetary policy to target a low rate of inflation .
promise and peril for argentina ’ s g20 presidency
washington , dc – it is june 2016 , and things seem to be looking up for argentine president maur ic io macri .
argentina has just been approved to fill the g20 presidency in 2018 .
the us presidential race is heating up , but it seems all but certain that hillary clinton will win the democratic nomination and sa il to victory in november .
macri is feeling optimistic about advancing his international agenda with a like-minded ally .
fast- forward to today .
macri must be wringing his hands over an international environment that is far more challenging than he probably anticipated .
still , all is not lost for argentina ’ s upcoming g20 presidency .
to be sure , confronting us president donald trump and his “ america first ” agenda will not be easy .
at the g20 summit in hamburg last month , trump already managed to isolate himself from the 19 other leaders , including macri , by standing behind his decision to withdraw from the paris climate agreement – a deal that virtually the entire international community considers irreversible .
similarly , trump has demanded renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) .
that process , which begins this month , is unlikely to be resolved quickly and , if handled cl um s ily , could disrupt us relations with g20 members mexico and canada .
moreover , trump isn ’ t the only factor outside macri ’ s control that may affect his ability to manage the g20 presidency .
likewise , the many conflicts in the middle east , unfolding humanitarian disasters in africa , and the deteriorating situation in venezuela are having destabilizing consequences far beyond national borders .
upcoming elections in latin america ’ s g20 members are another source of uncertainty .
argentina is set to hold legislative elections this october , and mexico and brazil will hold presidential elections next year , with populist candidates expected to perform well .
so what can macri do to maximize argentina ’ s chances of a successful g20 presidency ?
when it comes to trump , he may seek to capitalize on their friendship , which preced es their political careers .
yet this relationship carries some risks , owing to questions about trump ’ s business relationships in argentina .
more promising , macri can and should work closely with civil-society groups and activists to ensure sufficient space for participation .
in hamburg , violent clashes with protesters left nearly 200 police injured and german insurance companies with a € 12 million ( $ 1 4.2 million ) bill .
the argent in ian g20 unit must recognize the possibility of disruption , especially given the un popularity of some of the government ’ s austerity measures , which have already led to mass protests .
more broadly , argentina ’ s g20 presidency remains an important opportunity to advance macri ’ s foreign-policy agenda , which stresses international cooperation .
with mexico ’ s president en rique peña nieto in his final year in office and brazilian president michel tem er ham str ung by scandals , macri may wish to try to position argentina as a regional leader in bringing latin american perspectives to the g20 .
such leadership might enable macri to rejuven ate the troubled mer cos ur bloc , which includes several latin american countries and could support national efforts to reduce poverty through increased trade and investment .
this effort – and argentina ’ s broader g20 agenda – would receive an added boost if negotiations on a european uni on- mer cos ur trade agreement are successfully concluded this december .
argentina is also well placed to use its g20 presidency to build on the climate and energy plan agreed by the g 19 ( without the us ) .
macri has declared 2017 to be the “ year of renewable energy , ” and committed argentina to meeting 20 % of its electricity demand with renewable energy by 2025 .
furthermore , the argentine government now particip ates in the high ambition coalition , which was instrumental in securing the 2015 paris climate accord .
this informal group , comprising countries ranging from germany and brazil to the marshall islands , declared its “ un sha ke able ” commitment to the accord .
and argentina was the first country to submit a more ambitious national climate change plan as part of the paris accord .
macri should take advantage of the credibility established by these moves – which must , of course , be reinforced by progress toward argentina ’ s renewable-energy targets and reducing deforestation – to encourage other countries to revise their pledges .
the timing could not be better .
because the current set of pledges is inadequate to limit the rise in global temperature to the paris accord ’ s target of “ well below two degrees celsius , ” the united nations will hold a special dialogue in 2018 to encourage countries to submit more ambitious pledges before 2020 .
argentina can also link its g20 goals on jobs and technology with the objective of building a low-carbon economy .
an important component of any effort to combine these agendas is the completion of argentina ’ s long-term low- emission development strategy before the 2018 g20 summit .
after all , progress on such strategies – part of the paris agreement – sends a strong signal to investors seeking to mitigate climate-related risks and take advantage of new opportunities in renewables , electric vehicles , and batteries .
global volatility will undoubtedly affect argentina ’ s g20 presidency .
but so will argentina ’ s own actions .
to maximize the chances of a successful presidency , macri should focus on working closely with argentina ’ s european and latin american allies , while reinforcing his government ’ s credibility on issues that are critical to all .
argentina is no climate leader
neu qu é n – argent in ian president maur ic io macri claims that exploiting his country ’ s oil and gas shale reserves – the second-largest in the world – is vital not only to lift the economy out of the dol drums , but also to provide a “ bridge fuel ” to support the climate transition .
under argentina ’ s leadership , g20 energy ministers signed a communiqué this summer highlighting the role of natural gas in “ supporting transitions towards lower- emission energy systems , ” with the “ potential to expand significantly over the coming decades . ”
and the macri government has created a plan to attract $ 12 billion per year in fossil-fuel investments , predicting that revenues from oil and gas exports will surpass those from agriculture – currently argentina ’ s leading export sector – by 20 27 .
argentina certainly has massive reserves still to be exploited : an estimated 19 . 9 billion barrels of crude oil and 5 83 trillion cubic feet of gas , concentrated in the vac a mu er ta shale formation .
but the notion that using these resources would have any environmental benefit is entirely illusory .
extracting argentina ’ s shale resources would not only require dangerous and expensive hy dra ul ic fracturing ( fracking ) ; exploiting them would result in around 50 billion tons of carbon dioxide emissions .
according to research by oil change international , full exploitation of argentina ’ s shale reserves would consume up to 15 % of the entire world ’ s carbon budget for limiting global warming to less than 1.5 ° celsius above pre-industrial levels – the target established by the paris climate agreement .
the united nations committee on economic , social , and cultural rights has recommended that argentina ’ s government “ reconsider ” the exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons .
yet , if argentina receives sufficient investment to build the infrastructure – the pipelines , railways , sil ica mines , and waste sites – needed to make vac a mu er ta profitable , the country may become effectively locked into full exploitation .
with major international oil companies – including bp ( which owns 50 % of pan american energy group , argentina ’ s second-largest crude producer ) , total , shell , w inter shall , equ in or , exxonmobil , ch ev ron , c no oc , dow , and pe tr on as – already getting involved , this scenario seems increasingly likely .
and it is not just the climate that will suffer .
already , the economics of argentina ’ s d ash for gas has resulted in massive transfers from households , businesses , and the state to fossil-fuel corporations .
argentina ’ s government , in line with a g20 commitment , has been slashing subsidies for private gas and oil heating bills .
at the same time , the macri administration has been hi king ( doll ar ized ) gas prices .
add to that a sharply depreci ating peso ( down by more than 50 % against the us dollar this year ) , and the increase in gas prices faced by households and businesses , on average , amounts to 1, 300 % over the last 24 months .
unsurprisingly , many companies and households can no longer afford their energy bills .
the price hikes are so damaging that the entire opposition united behind a law to bring tariffs back to their november 2017 levels .
macri veto ed the law in may , before replacing his energy minister .
while households and businesses suffer , oil and gas companies continue to profit .
in fact , those w ishing to exploit shale deposits are receiving shin y new subsidies of their own , along with other benefits : a guaranteed price through plan gas for unconventional gas , reduced regional government fees per unit of gas extr acted , and an agreement with the main trade unions that lowers workforce costs .
as a result of these lavish arrangements , companies drilling for shale gas can turn a profit without providing the promised economic benefits .
according to research by argentina ’ s socio- environmental and energy justice alliance , although oil and gas companies operating in vac a mu er ta in 2016 invested less than they did in 2015 and provided 3,000 fewer jobs , they received higher earnings .
beyond the labor- rights violations that deals with trade unions enable , shale-gas extraction violates the rights of indigenous communities .
for example , indigenous m ap u che communities have protested wells dr illed on their territory without prior informed consent .
moreover , while more than 60 municipalities have passed local regulations to ban the drilling , the courts have declared several of these measures un constitutional on the grounds that they exceed communal powers – a move that also under cuts local democracy .
so argentina ’ s shale mega project undermines efforts to address climate change , threatens local democracy and indigenous rights , and will not bring the economic benefits promised by its proponents .
meanwhile , macri ’ s government , which is hosting the g20 ’ s annual summit this week , has been using the body ’ s forums to promote gas as a sustainable energy alternative .
this is not climate leadership .
and yet , when it comes to shale-gas ambition , argentina is hardly alone .
g20 governments , from china to the united kingdom , are devising large-scale industrial strategies centered on shale gas .
far from exploiting shale reserves , the world needs to halt new fossil-fuel projects , phase out existing ones , and implement ambitious clean-energy investment strategies focused on providing decent jobs and respecting communities ’ rights to control development on their land .
only by adopting and promoting such an approach could argentina credibly claim to be showing climate leadership .
argentina ’ s economic big bang
frankfurt – last week , the government of newly elected argentine president maur ic io macri launched a bold plan to revitalize a bru ised and beleaguered economy plagued by high inflation .
at a time of daunting crisis conditions , one should not underestimate the importance of this move not just for argentina , but also for other countries , where leaders are watching closely for clues about how to deal with their own economic woes .
thanks to years of economic mismanagement , argentina ’ s economy has been badly under performing for decades .
previous governments sought to avoid difficult policy choices and ob fus c ate fundamental issues by implementing inefficient controls that grossly mis allocated resources and undermined argentina ’ s ability to generate the foreign-exchange earnings needed to cover its import bill , resulting in domestic shortages .
the recent drop in commodity prices has exacerbated the situation , deple ting what little growth dynamism the economy had left , while fueling inflation , deepening poverty , and spreading economic insecurity and financial instability .
in theory , governments in such a situation have five basic options to contain crisis conditions , pending the effects of measures to reinvigorate growth and employment engines .
· run down the financial reserves and wealth that were accumulated when the economy was doing better .
· borrow from foreign and domestic lenders .
· cut public-sector spending directly , while creating incentives to induce lower private-sector expenditure .
· generate revenues through higher taxes and fees , and earn more from abroad .
· use the price mechanism to accelerate adjustments throughout the economy , as well as in trade and financial interactions with other countries .
through careful design and sequencing , these five measures can help not only to deal with immediate economic and financial problems , but also to create the conditions for higher growth , job creation , and financial stability in the longer term .
in this manner , they can contain the spread of economic hardship among the population , protect the most vulnerable segments , and put future generations on a better footing .
in practice , however , governments often face complications that undermine effective implementation of these measures .
if policymakers are not careful , two problems , in particular , can reinforce each other , potentially pushing the economy over the precip ice .
the first problem arises when specific factors , real or perceived , block some options from the adjustment menu .
some measures may already have been exhausted : the country may not have any wealth or reserves left to tap , and there may be a shortage of willing lenders .
other measures , such as fiscal adjustment , must be implemented very carefully , in order to avoid tor pe doing the growth objective .
the second problem is timing , with governments struggling to ensure that the measures take effect in the right sequence .
effective implementation requires understanding key features of economic and financial interactions , including not just feedback effects , but also the behavioral aspects of private-sector responses .
and all of this must be closely coordinated with the pursuit of supply-side reforms that promote robust , durable , and inclusive growth .
here is where the macri government ’ s approach is an historical exception .
macri took over the presidency with a bang , launching an aud acious – and highly risky – strategy that places aggressive price liberalization and the removal of quantitative controls front and center , ahead of the five measures relating to demand management and financial assistance .
already , most export taxes and currency controls have been scr apped , income taxes have been cut , and the exchange rate has been freed up , allowing for an immediate 30 % depreciation of the peso .
historically , few governments have pursued this type of sequencing , much less with such ferv or ; indeed , most governments have hes itated , especially when it comes to full currency liberalization .
when governments have taken similar steps , they usually have done so after – or at least alongside – the provision of financial injections and efforts to restrain demand .
they worried that , if these problems emerged , they would derail reform measures and erode the public support needed to press on .
to revive the argentine economy in a durable and inclusive manner , macri ’ s government needs to act fast to mobilize sizeable external financial assistance , generate additional domestic resources , and implement deeper structural reforms .
if it does , argentina ’ s bold economic strategy will become a model for other countries , both now and in the future .
but if the approach fal ters – whether because of in correct sequencing or a surge of popular dissatisfaction – other countries will become even more hesitant to lift controls and fully liberalize their currencies .
the resulting policy confusion would be bad for everyone .
macri ’ s disappointing first year in argentina
new york – argentina ’ s economy is struggling .
last year , the country suffered stagflation , with gdp dropping by 2.3 % and inflation reaching nearly 40 % .
poverty and inequality increased ; unemployment rose ; and foreign debt grew – and continues to grow – at an alarming rate .
for president maur ic io macri , it was a dis hear tening first year in office , to say the least .
to be sure , macri faced a daunting challenge when he took office in december 2015 .
the economy was already on an unsustainable path , owing to the inconsistent macroeconomic policies that his predecessor , cristina fern án dez de kirchner , had pursued .
those policies led to imbalances that eroded the economy ’ s competitiveness and foreign reserves , pushing the country toward a balance-of-payments crisis .
but macri also pursued a flawed macroeconomic policy approach .
his administration needed to address the fiscal and external imbalances , without und oing the progress in social inclusion that had been made over the previous decade .
his approach , based on four key pillars , has not achieved that .
first , macri ’ s government abolished exchange-rate controls and moved argentina to a floating currency regime , with the argentine peso allowed to depreciate by 60 % against the us dollar in 2016 .
second , macri ’ s government reduced taxes on commodity exports , which had been important to kirchner ’ s administration , and removed a number of import controls .
third , the central bank of argentina announced that it would follow an inflation-targeting regime , instead of continuing to rely mainly on se ign ior age to finance the fiscal deficit .
finally , macri ’ s government reached a deal with the so-called vul ture funds and other hold out creditors that for more than a decade had blocked the country from acc essing international credit markets .
once the deal was concluded , argentina pursued massive new external borrowing , with the emerging world ’ s larg est- ever debt issue , to help address its sizable fiscal deficit .
in the interest of lowering its borrowing costs , the authorities issued the new debt under new york law , despite the expensive battle that the country had just lost precisely because it had borrowed under that legal framework .
macri ’ s macroeconomic policy approach – which also included increasing prices for public services that had been frozen by the previous government and implementing a tax amnesty program that provided the government with more fiscal revenues – rested on several controversial assumptions .
above all , the radical change in policy course was supposed to establish the conditions for dynamic growth .
the currency depreciation , it was assumed , would address external imbalances , by encouraging , with the help of lower export taxes , increased production of tradable goods .
the deal with the vul ture funds was supposed to reduce the cost of financing and boost investor confidence , thereby attracting inflows of foreign direct investment ( fdi ) .
investment-led growth would help the entire economy .
these assumptions haven ’ t been borne out .
contrary to the government ’ s expectations , the peso ’ s depreciation had a large impact on consumer prices – as critics had warned .
the central bank ’ s new focus on inflation is unlikely to help matters , either , because it will undermine economic activity and exacerbate the pain experienced by the most vulnerable , for whom unemployment may be worse than rising prices .
moreover , argentina ’ s fiscal deficit has increased , owing to the drop in revenues brought about by the recession .
and there were no significant fdi inflows , because , as macri ’ s critics had cau tioned , the uncertainty surrounding his policies deterred investment .
the government has done one thing right : it re boo ted the national institute of statistics and census , which had lost credibility after interventions by the previous administration .
but the overall situation remains bleak .
at the end of macri ’ s first year in office , argentina faced the same macroeconomic imbalances that it did when he took office , but with significantly higher external indebtedness .
furthermore , public anger is reaching fever pit ch , owing to the effective redistribution of wealth away from workers brought about by macri ’ s policies .
demonstrations abound , even causing the first day of school to be delayed .
on april 6 , the government faced its first nationwide general strike .
as it stands , argentina ’ s prospects are uncertain .
external borrowing is becoming a serious problem – one that is likely to intensify , as continued interest-rate hikes by the us federal reserve raise the costs of rolling over debts .
unstable macroeconomic dynamics are re producing the same imbalances as they did before .
for example , the capital inflows associated with external borrowing are putting upward pressure on the peso , threatening sectors that are important for job creation .
in the run-up to this year ’ s legislative elections , macri ’ s government could try to stimulate economic activity by taking on more debt .
but a debt- based recovery would be short-lived , and would sow the seeds of more acute debt troubles in the future .
to escape its perverse debt dynamics , argentina must reduce its fiscal deficit .
but it can do so only in the context of a sustainable and inclusive recovery of economic activity – and that requires a more competitive economy .
under current conditions , attempting to resolve the problem through a fiscal contraction would merely aggravate the recession .
macri ’ s government should be working to develop a long-term macroeconomic strategy based on credible , not controversial , assumptions .
without a substantial mid- course correction , argentina will settle onto a destabilizing debt path that leads nowhere good .
a fair hearing for sovereign debt
new york – last july , when united states federal judge thomas gr ies a ruled that argentina had to repay in full the so-called vul ture funds that had bought its sovereign debt at rock-bottom prices , the country was forced into default , or
the decision reverber ated far and wide , affecting bonds issued in a variety of jurisdictions , suggesting that us courts held sway over contracts executed in other countries .
ever since , lawyers and economists have tried to un tang le the be fu dd ling implications of gr ies a 's decision .
does the authority of us courts really extend beyond america 's borders ?
now , a court in the united kingdom has finally
the decision – a welcome break from a series of decisions by american judges who do not seem to understand the complexities of global financial markets – conve ys some important messages .
first and foremost , the fact that the argentine debt negotiations were preemp ted by an american court – which was then contradic ted by a british court – is a stark reminder that market-based solutions to sovereign-debt crises have a high potential for chaos .
before the gr ies af a ult , it was often mistakenly assumed that solutions to sovereign-debt repayment problems could be achieved through decentralized negotiations , without a strong legal framework .
but simple modi fications like contract amendments will not overcome the system 's deficiencies .
with multiple debts subject to a sle w of some tim es- contradictory laws in different jurisdictions , a basic formula for adding the votes of creditors – which supporters of a market-based approach have promoted – would do little to resolve complicated bargaining problems .
nor would it establish the exchange rates to be used to value debt issued in different currencies .
if these problems are left to markets to address , sheer bargaining power , not considerations of efficiency or equity , will determine the solutions .
the consequences of these deficiencies are not mere in conveni ences .
delays in concluding debt restruc tur ings can make economic recessions deeper and more persistent , as the case of greece illustrates .
this brings us to the second lesson of the british ruling .
with the stakes so high and the system so broken , debt markets have little reason to remain in the us .
america has always pr ided itself on the strength of its “ rule of law , '' a selling point that has made wall street host to the largest sovereign-debt market .
but gr ies a 's ruling , based on a peculiar – and in our view , inde f ensible – interpretation of certain terms in argentina 's contract , showed that us commercial interests can dominate its courts ' decisions .
the va unted american rule of law no longer looks so robust .
per vers ely , it protects the strong against the weak .
the gr ies af a ult is only the latest of many decisions and legal changes that have revealed what one might call a symptom of
the us would be wise to react before the sovereign-debt market m ig rates from new york .
china should stand ready to pick up the slack .
its savings now far out strip those of the us , and it is striving to make shanghai a global financial center .
that ambition has become more attainable in view of the damage to the us system 's credibility in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
but , if shanghai is to emerge as a leader in sovereign lending markets , china should be aware of the shortcomings of legal frameworks elsewhere , and design a more efficient and equitable alternative .
the final , overarching message of the british court 's decision is one that all countries should heed .
there is an urgent need to renew the united nations ' efforts to create a multinational legal framework for sovereign-debt restructuring .
though the us is striving to undermine these efforts , the uk ruling reminds us that america 's judges are not the world 's judges .
that last revelation may not make wall street happy ; but , for the many countries around the world that rely on sovereign debt , it is very good news indeed .
argentina ’ s bumpy ride
santiago – “ fast en your seat bel ts , because it should be a bumpy ride , ” the captain warned from the co ck pit .
we were about to enter argentine airspace .
investors looking to do business in argentina have long been issued similar warnings .
this is the country that scholars study when they want to understand financial crises .
the country ’ s largest such crisis , in 2001 , brought down the local banking system and caused the argentine government to default on its debts .
the economy contracted by a whopping 18 % , and the unemployment rate peaked above 22 % .
it au , latin america ’ s largest bank , is predicting gdp growth in argentina of only 3.2 % next year , down sharply from 6 % in 2011 .
inflation is another concern .
with official figures widely discredited , private analysts estimate that consumer prices are rising at an annual rate of 25 % or more .
those are careful estimates by serious economists . but , then again , one should take all economic forecasts about argentina with a grain of salt .
in the decade since the last crisis , argentine policymakers have broken almost every rule in the economic-policy playbook .
again and again , local and international economists have issued dire warnings about what would happen if it persisted in its heterodo xy .
and yet argentina has managed to grow fast , doubling per capita income since 2002 .
energy policy is a perfect example of a wrong headed strategy .
the argentine government fixed gas prices , despite ongoing inflation .
gas became artificially cheap , consumers seldom bothered to turn the ther mo st at down , and producers stopped investing .
as a result argentina , once a thriving gas exporter , had to seek imports to overcome domestic shortages .
what saved argentina over the last decade were highly favorable external conditions : sky-high global commodity prices and technological innovations that greatly increased farm yields .
neighboring brazil helped by undergoing a boom of its own , which pumped up demand for a wide range of argentine products .
with rising tax revenues and the burden of debt gone after the default a decade ago , the government went on a spending spree : real public expenditure grew at double-digit rates most years since 2002 .
at the same time , the central bank kept interest rates low , so that the inflation-adjusted cost of loans is zero or negative .
in this environment , argentine consumers naturally also went on a spending spree , and corporate profits rose accordingly .
not long ago , i met with a group of foreign investors in argentina .
they owned everything from paper mil ls to department stores and super market chains .
after they finished trading stories of endless red tape and arbitrary government decisions , i asked why they kept investing in argentina .
“ because we make a lot of money , ” was the unanimous answer .
the question making the rounds in argentina nowadays is whether this period of plenty is coming to an end .
you would not feel any such anxiety in buenos aires shopping m alls , which are as crowded as ever . nor could you inf er it from the behavior of voters , who seem poised to re- elect president cristina kirchner in october .
but the signs of economic deterioration are surely there .
with imports still growing strongly and commodity prices beginning to fall as a result of the world slowdown , argentina ’ s large trade surplus is disappearing quickly .
fearing a weaker peso , spo o ked investors demand dollars .
capital is flowing out of the country , and official reserves are slowly being depleted .
to stem the outflow of dollars , the central bank may well be forced to raise interest rates .
that , plus the gloomy international outlook and a fiscal policy that will have to become less expansionary after the election , will slow the economy down .
a bumpy ride is acceptable as long as the landing is smooth .
it will prove a difficult period at the controls .
the vul tures ’ victory
new york – a recent decision by a united states appeals court threatens to upend global sovereign-debt markets . it may even lead to the us no longer being viewed as a good place to issue sovereign debt .
at the very least , it r enders non- viable all debt restruc tur ings under the standard debt contracts .
in the process , a basic principle of modern capitalism – that when debtors can not pay back creditors , a fresh start is needed – has been over turned .
the trouble began a dozen years ago , when argentina had no choice but to devalue its currency and default on its debt .
under the existing regime , the country had been on a rapid downward spiral of the kind that has now become familiar in greece and elsewhere in europe .
unemployment was soaring , and austerity , rather than restoring fiscal balance , simply exacerbated the economic downturn .
devaluation and debt restructuring worked .
in subsequent years , until the global financial crisis erupted in 2008 , argentina ’ s annual gdp growth was 8 % or higher , one of the fastest rates in the world .
even former creditors benefited from this rebound .
in a highly innovative move , argentina exchanged old debt for new debt – at about 30 cents on the dollar or a little more – plus a gdp- indexed bond .
the more argentina grew , the more it paid to its former creditors .
argentina ’ s interests and those of its creditors were thus aligned : both wanted growth .
it was the equivalent of a “ chapter 11 ” restructuring of american corporate debt , in which debt is sw apped for equity , with bondholders becoming new shareholders .
debt restruc tur ings often entail conflicts among different claim ants .
that is why , for domestic debt disputes , countries have bankruptcy laws and courts .
but there is no such mechanism to adjudic ate international debt disputes .
once upon a time , such contracts were enforced by armed intervention , as mexico , venezuela , egypt , and a host of other countries learned at great cost in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries .
after the argentine crisis , president george w. bush ’ s administration veto ed proposals to create a mechanism for sovereign-debt restructuring .
as a result , there is not even the pretense of attempting fair and efficient restruc tur ings .
poor countries are typically at a huge disadvantage in bargaining with big multinational lenders , which are usually backed by powerful home- country governments .
often , debtor countries are squeezed so hard for payment that they are bankrupt again after a few years .
economists applauded argentina ’ s attempt to avoid this outcome through a deep restructuring accompanied by the gdp- linked bonds .
but a few “ vul ture ” funds – most notoriously the hedge fund el li ot t management , headed by the billionaire paul e. singer – saw argentina ’ s travails as an opportunity to make huge profits at the expense of the argentine people .
they bought the old bonds at a fraction of their face value , and then used litigation to try to force argentina to pay 100 cents on the dollar .
americans have seen how financial firms put their own interests ahead of those of the country – and the world .
the vul ture funds have raised greed to a new level .
their litigation strategy took advantage of a standard contractual clause ( called par i pas su ) intended to ensure that all claim ants are treated equally .
if this principle prevails , no one would ever accept debt restructuring .
there would never be a fresh start – with all of the unpleasant consequences that this implies .
in debt crises , blame tends to fall on the debtors .
they borrowed too much .
but the creditors are equally to blame – they lent too much and im prudently .
indeed , lenders are supposed to be experts on risk management and assessment , and in that sense , the on us should be on them .
the risk of default or debt restructuring induc es creditors to be more careful in their lending decisions .
the repercussions of this mis carri age of justice may be felt for a long time .
after all , what developing country with its citizens ’ long-term interests in mind will be prepared to issue bonds through the us financial system , when america ’ s courts – as so many other parts of its political system – seem to allow financial interests to trump the public interest ?
countries would be well advised not to include par i pas su clauses in future debt contracts , at least without spec ifying more fully what is intended .
such contracts should also include collec tive- action clauses , which make it impossible for vul ture funds to hold up debt restructuring .
when a sufficient proportion of creditors agree to a restructuring plan ( in the case of argentina , the holders of more than 90 % of the country ’ s debt did ) , the others can be forced to go along .
the fact that the international monetary fund , the us department of justice , and anti- poverty ngos all joined in opposing the vul ture funds is revealing .
but so , too , is the court ’ s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to their arguments .
for those in developing and emerging-market countries who harbor grievances against the advanced countries , there is now one more reason for discontent with a brand of globalization that has been managed to serve rich countries ’ interests ( especially their financial sectors ’ interests ) .
in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , the united nations commission of experts on reforms of the international monetary and financial system urged that we design an efficient and fair system for the restructuring of sovereign debt .
the us court ’ s tend entious , economically dangerous ruling shows why we need such a system now .
argentina ’ s energy dilemma
buenos aires – the expropriation of nearly all of the spanish company rep sol  ’ s stake in argentina ’ s energy producer yp f , announced in a veh ement speech by president cristina fern án dez de kirchner , has raised legal al arms worldwide .
in fact , the move will not resolve the country ’ s energy problems in the absence of enormous inflows of investment to the sector .
rep sol  acquired complete control of yp f in 1999 ; in february 2008 , it transferred part of its shares to the peter sen group , which today holds 25 % .
rep sol  currently holds 57 % , with the rest owned by stock-market investors .
the argentine government intends to expropri ate 51 % , leaving rep sol  with a 6 % stake .
in the 2008 sale of shares , the two majority stock holders agreed to distribute at least 90 % of future profits in cash .
that decision was intended to allow the peter sen group to service the debts to banks , and to rep sol  itself , that it incurred with its share purchase , for which it made no initial payment .
this is an extraordinarily high dividend in the world oil industry .
in the past decade , yp f ’ s reserves diminished significantly , along with those of most oil companies operating in argentina , because investment in exploration was greatly reduced .
at the same time , natural gas accounts for 51 % of energy consumption , compared to 32 % for oil and barely 17 % for coal , renewables , and hydro electric and nuclear power .
worldwide , gas accounts for barely a quarter of total energy consumption – for example , 27 % in the united states and just 9 % in neighboring brazil .
of course , in a few other countries ( qatar , algeria , the united arab emirates , iran , and russia ) , gas also accounts for more than half – or even more than 60 % – of energy consumption .
but there is an enormous difference : all of these countries have reserves that will last another 7 0- 100 years .
argentina , by contrast , is a highly gas- dependent country with diminishing reserves – equivalent to less than eight years of production .
covering this drop in reserves – more than half of gas reserves and a fifth of oil reserves have been consumed – with imports implies an annual cost of more than $ 300 billion .
indeed , after two decades of cheap , abundant energy and exports of surplus output , a new cycle of expensive , scarce , and imported energy has begun , as oil production has fallen by one-third since 1998 , and gas production by 15 % since 2004 .
argentina ’ s greatest challenge today is to try to regain energy self- sufficiency through significant investment in exploration on land , as well as in the atlantic ocean .
at the same time , the country must modify its consumption model through greater reliance on hydro electric , nuclear , and wind energy .
while there is great potential for new non- conventional resources , all of this is expensive , requiring annual investment of about 3 % of gdp over the next five years .
it is very likely that , in the short term , growing imports of expensive liquid natural gas and other fuels will continue to exert pressure for change .
last year , the external energy deficit was more than $ 3 billion , and this year it is expected to double .
the important question is whether the argentine government ’ s decision to nation alize 51 % of yp f ’ s shares is the best way to recover self- sufficiency in oil and gas production , and to attract the capital needed for exploration and development of conventional reserves .
argentina has particularly high potential for production of non- conventional gas resources as well , given that it holds the world ’ s third- highest level of such reserves , after china and the united states .
but , as with the country ’ s conventional resources , these reserves will not produce themselves .
argentina ’ s warning to would-be euro deser ters
buenos aires – the tensions between the eurozone ’ s north and south , and the complex and politically costly transfers of money required to dampen the euro crisis , have led many people to think the unthinkable : saving europe ’ s common currency may require that some countries abandon it . indeed , talk about exiting the euro has intensified , particularly in southern eurozone countries that desperately need to regain competitiveness .
adopting a stronger currency ( as in “ euro ization ” ) is neither difficult nor particularly unusual .
introducing a new , weaker national currency to substitute for a stronger one in times of financial distress is an altogether different matter , about which most economists know almost nothing .
the closest experiment along these lines is probably argentina ’ s exit in 2002 from its dollar exchange-rate peg ( embodied in its currency board ) to a floating regime that depreciated the peso by 300 % in the first three months .
despite argentina ’ s obvious differences from the eurozone ’ s troubled southern economies , the argentine currency roll er coast er provides sobering lessons for european policymakers to ponder .
do europeans want to return to their own version of a flexible “ peso ” ?
at the very least , european policymakers will need to be willing to ( a ) “ pes ify ” contracts , ( b ) impose heavy restrictions on commercial banking operations , ( c ) restructure debts , and ( d ) introduce capital and exchange controls .
consider each fac et more closely . first , a new currency needs to create its own demand as a means in which to conduct commercial transactions by displacing the euro as sole legal t ender and unit of account .
this , in turn , requires the forced re denomination of prices , wages , and financial contracts , which can create serious disruptions , owing to heavy and asymmetrical balance-sheet effects , as well as a massive redistributive impact .
argent in a ´ s “ pes ification ” of bank deposits and loans benefited debtors at the expense of depositors , inciting public upheaval .
second , should any eurozone country quit the euro , the anticipation of forced pes ification is likely to set off a bank panic , as depositors quickly switch their pes ified holdings back into foreign exchange in order to move them out of the system and probably abroad .
in fact , in argentina , people started to withdraw their deposits almost a year before the exit from the currency board , fueling capital flight and feeding back into market pressures to abandon the peg to the dollar – a dynamic that could be even faster and more furious in financially integrated european economies .
in these circumstances , a selective deposit freeze appears to be the only option to avoid bankrup ting the banking sector .
here , argentina offers both a good and a bad example .
when all deposit withdraw als were capped in november 2001 , the resulting liquidity crunch deepened the recession and , eventually , brought down the government .
third , while pes ification re moves balance sheet losses from domestic foreign-currency debts , external contractual obligations can not be re denominated unilaterally .
thus , the exit from the dollar peg requires a restructuring of external debt , both sovereign and corporate .
indeed , argentina ’ s sovereign default happened almost simultaneously with the demise of the currency board , but corporate renegoti ations were a protracted affair .
eventually , most companies avoided bankruptcy , mainly owing to the fourth ingredient in argent in a ´ s exit toolkit : capital controls that provided the legal umbrella to stop external corporate debt servicing .
of course , controls are an inevitable ingredient in the exit mix .
adopting a weaker currency is predic ated on the need to regain competitiveness and improve external accounts .
but , in the short run , given the huge uncertainties involved in a regime switch , and the loss of access to capital markets that follows a debt renegotiation , foreign exchange becomes scarce , requiring a ple thor a of traditional restrictions – some more distorting than others – on capital movements .
in europe , too , capital controls would be the only way to avoid the off shoring of financial settlements after the currency conversion and the freezing of bank deposits .
at any rate , experience indicates that exiting the euro while preserving the freedom of capital movements is little more than a fantasy .
some observers suggest , based on argentina ’ s precedent , that countries should introduce their own weaker currency to denom inate wages and selected prices without leaving the euro .
we believe this analogy is mis constr ued .
while argentina did issue quasi- money in 2001 before abandoning the currency board , this money was conceived to meet fiscal needs and remained stable vis-à-vis the dollar .
indeed , it is hard to imagine how this du al- currency scheme could have avoided the consequences of converting to a weaker currency if the quasi- money had depreciated , as the idea ’ s current promo ters intend .
argentina ’ s exit from its dollar peg was a traumatic experience , concentrating contract violations , wealth redistribution , defaults , bank runs , exchange restrictions , and severe limitations on capital movements into a short period of time .
even so , it was simpler than introducing a “ new dr ach ma ” would be for , say , greece .
because argentina ’ s currency board never eliminated the peso as the main means of transactions , the basis for demand for it was there at the time of the blow up .
euro defec tors , by contrast , would need to promote demand for the new currency from scratch – a much messi er and nas tier process altogether .
a rio report card
new york – one of the world ’ s pre- eminent scientific publications , nature , has just issued a sca thing report card in advance of next week ’ s ri o + 20 summit on sustainable development .
the grades for implementation of the three great treaties signed at the first rio earth summit in 1992 were as follows : climate change – f ; biological diversity – f ; and combating deser tification – f. can humanity still avoid getting itself expelled ?
we have known for at least a generation that the world needs a course correction .
instead of powering the world economy with fossil fuels , we need to mobilize much greater use of low-carbon alternatives such as wind , solar , and ge other mal power .
instead of hunting , fishing , and clearing land without regard for the impact on other species , we need to pace our agricultural production , fishing , and lo gging in line with the environment ’ s carrying capacity .
instead of leaving the world ’ s most vulnerable people without access to family planning , education , and basic health care , we need to end extreme poverty and reduce the soaring fertility rates that persist in the poorest parts of the world .
in short , we need to recognize that with seven billion people today , and nine billion by mid-century , all inter- connected in a high-tech , energy-intensive global economy , our collective capacity to destroy the planet ’ s life- support systems is unprecedented .
yet the consequences of our individual actions are typically so far removed from our daily awareness that we can go right over the cliff without even knowing it .
when we power our computers and lights , we are unaware of the carbon emissions that result .
when we eat our meals , we are unaware of the deforestation that has resulted from unsustainable farming .
and when billions of our actions combine to create fam ines and floods halfway around the world , afflicting the poorest people in dr ought- prone mali and kenya , few of us are even dim ly aware of the dangerous s na res of global interconnectedness .
the agreements that emerged in 1992 at the first rio summit were good ones : thoughtful , far- sighted , public- spir ited , and focused on global priorities .
yet they have not saved us .
those treaties lived in the shadow of our daily politics , imag inations , and media cycles . diplomats tru dged off to conferences year after year to implement them , but the main results were neglect , delay , and bickering over leg alities .
twenty years on , we have only three failing grades to show for our efforts .
is there a different way ?
the path through international law engages lawyers and diplomats , but not the engineers , scientists , and community leaders on the front lines of sustainable development .
it is lit tered with technical ar can a about monitoring , binding obligations , annex - i and non- annex - i countries , and thousands of other leg al isms , but has failed to give humanity the language to discuss our own survival .
we have thousands of documents but a failure to speak plainly to one other .
do we want to save ourselves and our children ?
why didn ’ t we say so ?
at ri o + 20 we will have to say so , clearly , decisively , and in a way that leads to problem-solving and action , not to bickering and defen siveness .
since politicians follow public opinion rather than lead it , it must be the public itself that demands its own survival , not elected officials who are somehow supposed to save us despite ourselves .
there are few heroes in politics ; waiting for the politicians would be to wait too long .
the most important outcome in rio , therefore , will not be a new treaty , binding clause , or political commitment . it will be a global call to action .
around the world , the cry is rising to put sustainable development at the center of global thinking and action , especially to help young people to solve the trip le- bottom - line challenge – economic well-being , environmental sustainability , and social inclusion – that will define their era . ri o + 20 can help them to do it .
rather than a new treaty , let us adopt at ri o + 20 a set of sustainable development goals , or sdgs , that will inspire a generation to act .
just as the millennium development goals opened our eyes to extreme poverty and promoted unprecedented global action to fight aids , tuberculosis , and malaria , the sdgs can open the eyes of today ’ s youth to climate change , biodiversity loss , and the disasters of deser tification .
we can still make good on the three rio treaties , by putting people at the forefront of the effort .
sdgs to end extreme poverty ; decarbon ize the energy system ; slow population growth ; promote sustainable food supplies ; protect the oceans , forests , and dr y lands ; and redress the inequalities of our time can galvanize a generation ’ s worth of problem-solving . engineers and technology wi z ards from silicon valley to são pa ol o to bang al ore to shanghai have world- saving ideas up their sle ev es .
universities around the world are home to leg ions of students and faculty intent on solving practical problems in their communities and countries .
businesses , at least the good ones , know that they can ’ t flourish and motivate their workers and consumers unless they are part of the solution .
the world is poised to act .
ri o + 20 can help to unleash a generation of action .
there is still time , just barely , to turn the f ’ s to a ’ s , and to pass humanity ’ s ultimate test .
arms or allies ?
rig a – it should surprise no one that many in latvia view the sale by france of ful ly- equipped assault war ships to russia with grave concern . other european union member states seem to be looking increasingly towards russia as a potential purchas er of military equipment .
but is it wise for eu and nato members to enhance the capacity of non- allies to project their military power ?
after all , only two and a half years ago , russia invaded georgia , a country that nato had named as a potential future member , and has occupied part of it ever since .
the eu council ’ s common position on arms exports is legally binding on all eu states .
indeed , under the w ass en a ar arrangement , a decision on exports is the sole responsibility of each participating state .
implementation of the common eu position on arms exports has led to more exchanges of information , greater transparency , and closer consultation . it has also harmon ized export- control arrangements and procedures .
but there are obvious limits to what can be achieved .
consultations are currently a bilateral matter , with no rules governing how they should be conducted – and no requirement that any final agreement on arms- export decisions be reached .
the effectiveness of this consultation mechanism is difficult to evaluate .
according to the common position ’ s provisions , before a member state grants an export license , it should consul t with any member state that has previously denied a similar license .
but the common position does not spec ify the extent to which another member state should be consulted .
more importantly , it does not require the arms- exporting member state to consul t with any other member state that might have concerns .
as a result , arms exports to third countries remain a contentious issue within the eu .
at the heart of the matter is a conflict between the individual member states ’ national interests – the competitiveness of european defen se- related companies and the strategic importance of defense markets when linked to national foreign policy – and the lisbon treaty , which refers specifically to enhanced solidarity and consultation .
if the lisbon treaty is to be respected , solidarity must be viewed as a political tool for moving towards a european defense policy that works for the common good .
pursuing solely national policies on technology transfer runs contrary to that goal .
clearer rules for the consultation mechanism need to be elabor ated , and arms- exporting eu member states should consul t all other member governments that might have concerns , not only those that have previously issued or denied an export license .
the eu could work towards a common arms- export policy by seeking a shared understanding of the predictability and stability of third- party countries .
developing a common policy on arms exports to such countries should go hand in hand with the creation of a common and internationally competitive european defen se- equipment market .
this means that cooperation with non-eu countries should not be to the detriment of solidarity and common rules within the eu .
consulting at an early stage would help manage mis perceptions – often fueled by reports in the media long before deals are concluded – and thus strengthen convergence and unity among eu member states .
giving the eu a greater role in situations where member states ’ views differ should also be considered .
for example , member states could consul t on sensitive or contentious issues within the political and security committee .
this would strengthen the eu council ’ s common position , which already defines general rules for the control of exports of military technology and equipment .
as for nato , the question of consultations among allies is addressed in article 4 of the north atlantic treaty , which states that , “ the parties will consul t together whenever , in the opinion of any of them , the territorial integrity , political independence , or security of any of the parties is threatened . ”
but article 4 does not relate only to imminent threats .
decisions taken by a nato country can have implications for other allies .
the transfer of military equipment and technology to third countries could affect regional security and prompt a revision of threat assessments .
the north atlantic council would seem an obvious forum within which to enhance solidarity among members , reassure member states that have perceptions of greater vulnerability , and avoid mis perceptions .
at a lower level , the political and partnership committee and/or the conference of national arm am ents directors could be used for initial consultations .
these issues are of concern to all allies , so discussions should not be confined to bilateral agendas .
arms sales and technology transfers inevitably raise complex moral and ethical questions . that is all the more reason to seek open , confidence- reinforcing discussions among allies .
solidarity can not be achieved when our most important institutions are excluded .
toward an immun ized world
abu d hab i / new york – for a child , receiving a vaccine takes just a moment ( and perhaps a few tears ) .
but such moments are crucial for getting children off to a healthy start in life , and for advancing progress on global health and development goals .
along with mohamed bin z ayed bin sultan al na hy an , crown prince of abu dhabi , we att ach great importance to the world ’ s first global summit , being held this week in abu dhabi , aimed at ensuring that all children have access to the full benefits of vaccines .
vaccines protect people for a lifetime .
they are one of the most cost-effective investments we can make to improve our world .
vaccines have eradicated small po x , pushed polio to the verge of eradication , and saved millions of children from measles , di ph ther ia , te tan us , and other deadly and disab ling diseases .
thanks in large part to the power of vaccines , the number of children dying before the age of five has fallen from 20 million in 1960 to 6. 9 million in 2011 , despite a large increase in global population .
disease s aps the greatest asset that any country possesses : the energy and talent of its people .
this is an especially harsh loss for poor countries seeking to gain a footh old in the global economy .
but when children are healthy , families are freed from the burden of costly medical care , allowing them to spend more on food and education .
healthy children attend school more regularly , are better able to learn , and become more productive adults .
new research shows that vaccines improve cognitive development in children , raise labor productivity , and contribute to a country ’ s overall economic growth .
yet more than 22 million children lack access to the basic vaccines that people in high-income countries take for granted .
these children live in the poorest and most remote communities , where the risk of disease is highest .
a child born in a low-income country is 18 times more likely to die before reaching the age of five than a child in a high-income country .
ending this in equity is at the heart of history ’ s largest and most successful anti- poverty push – the millennium development goals .
the eight mdgs were adopted in the year 2000 , when leaders meeting at the united nations agreed to cut extreme poverty and hunger by half , fight disease , improve water safety and sanitation , expand education , and empower girls and women .
there have been remarkable gains , but there is still much to do – and fewer than 1,000 days of action left until the 2015 deadline .
raising global immunization coverage will speed progress toward the mdgs and generate momentum toward a successful post-2015 development agenda .
the world health assembly , representing the world health organization ’ s 19 4 member countries , has endorsed a shared vision – known as the decade of vaccines – of a world free from vacc ine- preventable diseases , with the full benefits of immunization reaching all people , regardless of who they are or where they live .
eradicating polio will be a milestone on our path to realizing this vision .
with a new , comprehensive plan to be introduced at the summit , the world will have a clear roadmap for creating a pol i o- free world by 2018 .
the plan works hand in hand with our overall efforts to raise immunization coverage against other diseases like measles , pneumonia , and ro ta virus .
indeed , we are seeing how strong immunization systems protect our gains against polio and provide a platform for reaching the world ’ s most vulnerable mothers and children with new vaccines and primary health care .
if we are successful , by the end of the decade we will save more than 20 million lives , prevent nearly one billion cases of illness , and save almost $ 12 billion in treatment costs alone .
and , in the process of freeing people from the burden of disease , we will unlock im measurable human potential .
the mdgs and the decade of vaccines prove that focused global development objectives can make a profound difference .
they show the power of partnerships that bring together the united nations , governments , development agencies , civil society , foundations , and the private sector .
let us start by re committing ourselves to realizing the shared vision of a world in which all children get a fair start in life with the protection of vaccines .
this generation will thank us – and so will many generations to come .
arrogance and authority
washington , dc – it is increasingly common to hear prominent american and european central bankers proclaim , with respect to the crisis of 2008- 2010 , the following verdict : “ we did well . ”
their view is that the various government actions to support the financial system helped to stabilize the situation .
indeed , what could be wrong when the united states federal reserve ’ s asset purchases may have actually made money ( which is then turned over to the us treasury ) ?
but to frame the issue in this way is , at best , to engage in delusion . at worst , however , it creates an image of arrogance that can only undermine the credibility on which central banks ’ authority rests .
the real cost of the crisis is not measured by the profit and loss statement of any central bank – or by whether or not the troubled asset relief program ( tar p ) , run by the treasury department , made or lost money on its various activities .
the cost is eight million jobs in the us alone , with employment falling 6 % from its peak and – in a major departure from other post-1945 recessions – remaining 5 % below that peak today , 31 months after the crisis broke in ear nest .
the cost is also the increase in net federal government debt held by the private sector – the most accurate measure of true government indebtedness .
comparing the us congressional budget office ’ s medium-term forecasts before ( in january 2008 ) and after the crisis , this debt increase is a staggering 40 % of gdp .
indeed , the reason there is a perceived fiscal crisis in the us today – along with spending cuts that will further hurt many people – is simple : the banks ble w themselves up at great cost to the american people , with major negative global implications .
most of the public-debt increase in the us and elsewhere is not due to any kind of discretionary fiscal stimulus ; it ’ s all about the loss of tax revenue that comes with a deep recession . ( and the bush administration ’ s tax cuts for the wealthiest , unfunded medicare prescription benefit , and debt-financed wars in afghanistan and iraq have severely weakened the long-term fiscal outlook . )
finally , the cost of the crisis is millions of homes lost and lives damaged , some permanently .
the issue is not whether the fed , or any central bank , should seek to prevent the collapse of its country ’ s banking system .
to see the severe effects of a banking crisis , look no further than the 1930 ’ s , a period that ben bernanke studied in detail before he became fed chair .
if the choice at any particular moment is to provide support or let the system collapse , you should choose support .
but , more broadly , as den nis loc k hart , president of the atl anta federal reserve bank , said last week at a public conference organized by his institution , we should not seek to operate a system based on the principle of “ private gains and public los s es . ” and these losses are massively skewed in ways that are grossly inefficient , in addition to being completely unfair .
the private gains can be measured most directly in the form of executive compensation .
from 2000 to 2008 , the people running the top 14 us financial institutions received cash compensation ( salary , bonus , and the value of stock sold ) of around $ 2.6 billion .
of this amount , around $ 2 billion was received by the five best- paid individuals , who were also central to creating the highly risky asset structures that brought the financial system to the edge of the abyss : sandy we il ( built citigroup , which ble w up shortly after he left ) ; han k paulson ( greatly expanded goldman sachs , lobbied for allowing more leverage in investment banks , then moved to the us treasury and helped save them ) ; angel o moz ilo ( built country wide , a central player in irresponsible mortgage lending ) ; dick fu ld ( ran lehman brothers into the ground ) ; and jimmy c ay ne ( ran bear stearns into the ground ) .
the public losses are massive in comparison : roughly $ 6 trillion , if we limit ourselves just to the increase in federal government debt .
and leading bank executives still insist that they should be allowed to run highly leveraged global businesses , in which they are paid based on their return on equity – un adjusted for any risk .
the world ’ s top independent financial minds have looked long and hard at these arrangements , and , given what we have learned in recent years , have found them worse than wanting ( see the web page of an at adm ati at stanford ’ s graduate school of business for the details ) .
in their view , the big banks should be funded much more with equity – perhaps as much as 30 % of their capitalization .
but bankers strongly reject this approach ( because it would likely lower their pay ) , as do central bankers ( because they are too much persuaded by the protest ation of bankers ) .
there are many advantages to having an independent central bank run by professionals who can keep their distance from politicians .
but when the people at the ap ex of these institutions insist that the crisis response went well , and that everything will be fine , even as the financial beh emo ths that caused the crisis lum ber forward , their credibility inevitably suffers .
that should worry central bankers , because their credibility is pretty much all they have .
congress created the fed , which means that congress can un- create it .
by assuming away the damage that highly leveraged megabanks can do , the myth of a “ good crisis ” merely makes political pressure on central banks all the more likely .
artificial intelligence and globalization
today ’ s conventional wisdom is that the rise of india and china will be the single biggest factor driving global jobs and wages over the twenty-first century .
high- wage workers in rich countries can expect to see their competitive advantage steadily eroded by competition from capable and fiercely hard- working competitors in asia , latin america , and maybe even some day africa .
this is a good story , full of human drama and power politics .
but i wonder whether , even within the next few decades , another factor will influence our work lives even more : the expon ential rise of applications of artificial intelligence .
my port al to the world of artificial intelligence is a narrow one : the more than 5 00- year-old game of chess .
you may not care a wh it about chess , long regarded as the ultimate intellectual sport .
but the stunning developments coming out of the chess world during the past decade should still command your attention .
chess has long been the centerpiece of research in artificial intelligence .
while in principle , chess is solv able , the game ’ s comput ational complexity is almost in compreh ensible .
it is only a slight exagger ation to say there are more possible moves in a chess game than at oms in a universe .
for most of the twentieth century , program mers were pat ently unsuccessful in designing chess computers that could compete with the best humans .
a human chess master ’ s ability to intu it , vis u alize , and prioritize easily prevailed over the br ute force approach of computers .
the computers gradually improved , but they still seemed far inferior to the top humans .
or so we thought .
then , in 1997 , in what will surely long be remembered as a historical milestone for modern man , ibm ’ s “ deep blue ” computer stunned the world by defeating the world champion g arr y kas par ov .
proud kas par ov , who was perhaps more stunned than anyone , was sure that the ibm team must have che ated .
he sar cas tically told reporters that he sen sed the “ the hand of god ” guiding his silicon opponent .
but the ibm team had not che ated .
rather , through a combination of ingen ious software and massive parallel computing power , they had produced a sil ic on-based entity capable of such fin esse and sub t le ty , that international chess grand masters worldwide ( including me ) were simply am a zed .
since 1997 , the computers have only gotten better , to the point where computer program mers no longer find beating humans a great challenge .
only a game , you say ?
perhaps , but let me tell you this : when i played professional chess 30 years ago ( i once represented the united states in the world chess championship cycle ) , i felt i could tell a lot about someone ’ s personality by seeing a sam pling of their games , even those of an am at eur .
until a short while ago , i could certainly distinguish a computer from a human opponent .
now everything changed like ligh t ning .
the machines can now even be set to im itate famous human players – including their flaws – so well that only an expert eye ( and sometimes only another computer ! ) can tell the difference .
more than half a century ago , the go d father of artificial intelligence , alan turing , argued that the brain ’ s function could all be reduced to mathematics and that , someday , a computer would rival human intelligence .
the “ turing test ” is the holy gra il of artificial intelligence research .
well , for me , a chess game is a conversation of sorts .
from my perspective , today ’ s off- the- shelf computer programs come aw fully close to meeting turing ’ s test .
over the course of a small number of games on the internet , i could not easily tell the difference .
true , today ’ s computers have not evolved to the level of the der anged ch ess - playing h al in the fil m maker stanley ku br ick ’ s master piece “ 2001 : a space od ys sey , ” much less ar n old sch war zen eg ger- like dro ids from the termin ator movies .
but the level that computers have reached already is sc ary enough .
what ’ s next ?
i certainly don ’ t feel safe as an economics professor !
i have no doubt that sometime later this century , one will be able to buy pocket professors – perhaps with hol o graphic images – as easily as one can buy a pocket kas par ov chess computer today .
so let ’ s go back to india and china .
globalization proceeded at a rapid pace through much of the last century , and at a particularly accelerated rate during its last two decades .
yet the vast body of evidence suggests that technological changes were a much bigger driver in global wage patterns than trade .
that is , technology , not trade , was the big story of the twentieth-century economy ( of course , the two interact , with trade helping to diffuse and stimulate technology , but this is a matter of sem an tics . )
are we so sure that it will be different in this century ?
or will artificial intelligence replace the mantra of outsourcing and manufacturing migration ?
chess players already know the answer .
education in the second machine age
munich – artificial intelligence , once confined to the realm of science fiction , is changing our lives .
cars are driving themselves .
drones are being program med to deliver packages .
computers are learning to diagn ose diseases .
in a recent book , the economists er ik br yn jol fs son and andrew mc af ee describe these recent advances as examples of the beginning of what they call “ the second machine age . ”
the very name – the first machine age was the industrial revolution – suggests an epo ch al shift .
and , indeed , if the predictions are to be believed , these technological advances could have profound implications for the way we live .
one common forecast is that as ever- more advanced robots substitute workers , the cost of labor will become less important , and manufacturing will move back to rich countries .
another is that increasingly intelligent machines will reduce the demand for advanced skills , and that the economic advantage of having these skills will decline as a result .
the first of these two hypo thes es remains far-fetched .
but there is evidence that the second has already started to come to pass , with serious implications for the way that modern economies have attempted to meet the challenges of globalization .
to be sure , there has been plenty of anec do tal evidence of “ re shoring ” – the relocation of jobs from low-wage countries to high- wage economies .
in a recent survey of 3 84 firms in the eurozone by the management consul t ancy pric e water hou sec o op ers , two-thirds of the respondents said that they had re shor ed some activities during the past year , and 50 % plan to do so in the next .
but when one looks at the data , there is no sign of re shoring .
indeed , the trend is continuing in the opposite direction .
off shoring dropped during the great recession that followed the 2008 global financial crisis , but quickly reb ounded , accelerating past pre-crisis levels .
for the moment , the return of manufacturing to rich countries remains a prediction , not an outcome .
evaluating the second hypothesis is more complicated .
at first glance , the evidence supports the possibility that demand for advanced skills is falling .
with the exceptions of the us and germany , the wage gap between skilled and unskilled workers has been declining in all western countries in the last 17 years .
one possible explanation is that education levels in europe out stripped the pace of technological change , over supplying the market for advanced skills .
in austria , the share of people with a university degree or its equivalent increased by 250 % between 1996 and 2012 .
in the united kingdom and italy , it almost doubled .
in spain , it jumped by 70 % , and in france by 60 % .
by comparison , in the us and germany , the share of the population with a tertiary education rose by a more modest 25 % .
it is also possible , however , that the drop in the wage gap between skilled and unskilled workers represents competition from increasingly intelligent machines .
here , the us is a case in point .
because educational attainment has been advancing only modestly in the us since the turn of the century , we would expect the wage gap to be rising steep ly , as it did in the 1980s and 1990s .
instead , it has remained largely unchanged , and it is the unemployment rate among skilled workers that is on the rise , doubling in the us and the united kingdom from 2000 to 2012 .
until the 1980s , about 70 % of income went to labor income and 30 % to capital income .
but , since then , the share of income going to labor has declined in all rich countries .
it is now at about 58 % of gdp .
according to research by the economists lou k as k arab ar b oun is and br ent ne im an , half of this decline is the result of cheaper information technology , which has enabled firms to replace workers with computers .
the implications are serious .
if these are indeed the first signs of the second machine age , it is possible that we have been fighting the wrong battle .
as the scarcity of human capital declines in importance , the rapid expansion of education may not be the answer to the challenges of globalization that we hoped it would be .
the promise and pitfalls of ai
brussels – like any transformative trend , the rise of artificial intelligence ( ai ) poses both major opportunities and significant challenges .
but the gravest risks may not be the ones most often discussed .
according to new research from the mckinsey global institute ( mgi ) , ai has the potential to boost overall economic productivity significantly .
even accounting for transition costs and competition effects , it could add some $ 13 trillion to total output by 2030 and boost global gdp by about 1.2 % per year .
perhaps the most discussed concern about ai is the prospect that intelligent machines will replace more jobs than they create .
but mgi ’ s research found that the adoption of ai may not have a significant effect on net employment in the long term .
extra investment in the sector could contribute 5 % to employment by 2030 , and the additional wealth created could drive up labor demand , boosting employment by another 12 % .
but while the overall picture is positive , the news is not all good .
for one thing , it is possible that it will take time for ai ’ s benefits – particularly with regard to productivity – to be felt .
indeed , mgi ’ s research suggests that ai ’ s contribution to growth may be three or more times higher by 2030 than it is over the next five years .
this is in line with the so-called sol ow computer paradox : productivity gains lag behind technological advances – a notable phenomenon during the digital revolution .
this is partly because , initially , economies face high implementation and transition costs , which estimates of ai ’ s economic impact tend to ignore .
mgi ’ s sim ulation suggests that these costs will amount to 80 % of gross potential gains in five years , but will decline to one-third of those gains by 2030 .
the more troubling potential feature of the ai revolution is that its benefits are not likely to be shared equitably .
the resulting “ ai divides ” will reinforce the digital divides that are already fueling economic inequality and undermining competition .
these divides could emerge in three areas .
the first divide would emerge at the company level .
innovative , lead ing-edge companies that fully adopt ai technologies could double their cash flow between now and 2030 – an outcome that would likely entail hiring many more workers .
these companies would leave in the dust those that are unwilling or unable to implement ai technologies at the same rate .
in fact , firms that do not adopt ai at all could experience a 20 % decline in their cash flow as they lose market share , putting them under pressure to shed workers .
the second divide concerns skills .
the proliferation of ai technologies will shift labor demand away from repe ti tive tasks that can more easily be automated or outsourced to platforms , toward socially or cogn itively driven tasks .
mgi ’ s models indicate that job profiles characterized by repe ti tive tasks and little digital knowhow could fall from some 40 % of total employment to near 30 % by 2030 .
meanwhile , the share of jobs ent ailing non- repe ti tive activities or requiring high-level digital skills is likely to rise from some 40 % to more than 50 % .
this shift could contribute to an increase in wage differentials , with around 13 % of the total wage bill potentially shifting to non- repe ti tive jobs requiring high-level digital skills , as incomes in those fields rise .
workers in the repe ti tive and low- digit al- skills categories may experience wage stagnation or even reduction , contributing to a decline in their share of the total wage bill from 33 % to 20 % .
the third ai divide – among countries – is already apparent , and seems set to widen further .
those countries , mostly in the developed world , that establish themselves as ai leaders could capture an additional 20- 25 % in economic benefits compared with today , while emerging economies may accrue only an extra 5- 15 % .
the advanced economies have a clear advantage in adopting ai , because they are further along in the implementation of previous digital technologies .
they also have powerful incentives to adopt ai : low productivity growth , aging populations , and relatively high labor costs .
by contrast , many developing economies have insufficient digital infrastructure , weak innovation and investment capacity , and thin skills base .
add to that the motiv ation- damp ening effects of low wages and ample space for productivity catch-up , and it seems unlikely that these economies will keep pace with their advanced counterparts in ai adoption .
the emergence or expansion of these ai divides is not inevitable .
and , to ensure that their changing workplace needs are met , firms can take a more active role in supporting educational upgrading and continuous learning for lower- skill people .
moreover , these divides are not necessarily a negative development .
the real location of resources toward higher- performing companies makes economies healthier , potentially providing them with new competitive advantages vis-à-vis other countries .
but the risks posed by these divides should not be underestimated .
vision and per sever ance are essential to make the ai revolution work , because it will bring short-term pain before long-term gains .
if that pain occurs against a backdrop of frustration with the unequal distribution of ai ’ s benefits , it may trigger a backlash against technologies that could otherwise produce a virtuous cycle of higher productivity , income growth , and employ ment- boosting demand .
the promise of ai in the developing world
london – a common mis perception among observers of digital trends is that consumers in developing countries do not benefit from advances in technology .
whether it is owning the latest smartphone or “ employing ” robot clean ers , the ability to access innovation is one of the most visible differences between rich and poor countries .
this gap has become even more pronounced since the advent of artificial intelligence ( ai ) .
for example , the vast majority of home “ smart speaker ” personal assist ants , like amazon ’ s alex a , are shi pped to wealthy countries .
in 2017 , over 80 % of global smart speaker ship ments were to north america .
but while technology can deepen global inequality , it also has the potential to mitigate it .
this is because ai can do much more than power appliances ; it can also revolution ize the way health care , disaster relief , finance , logistics , education , and business services are delivered in the global south .
around the world , ai is already transforming developing countries .
in nepal , machine learning is mapping and analyzing post- earthquake reconstruction needs .
across africa , ai tu tors are helping young students catch up on cour se work .
humanitarian aid agencies are using big data analytics to optimize the delivery of supplies for refugees fleeing conflict and other hard ships .
and in my country , india , rural farmers use ai applications to improve crop yields and boost profits .
innovations like these bring us closer to achieving the united nations sustainable development goals on issues like eradicating poverty , ending health-care inequality , increasing access to schooling , and combating global warming .
and yet the world is just scrat ching the surface of what ai can do for human progress .
to harness ai ’ s full power to advance development , we must find new ways to apply it .
for example , with the right support , the sk ies above developing countries could be filled with drones delivering medical supplies to remote hospitals .
this is already happening in rural rwanda , where a unique partnership between the health ministry and zi pl ine , a silicon val le y- based tech startup , is giving doctors in hard-to- reach clinics the ability to order blood by text message , and then have it arrive by par ach ute in a matter of minutes .
since the program launched in october 2016 , delivery times have been cut by a factor of five , and hundreds of lives have been saved .
still , while ai innovations like this one are impressive , we can not take them for granted .
unless we counter the misplaced but well- publicized fears that ai disruptions will be worse than the rewards , the incredi ble progress that technology companies are making in the global south will be slowed .
there are a number of steps that can be taken to avoid this outcome .
for starters , programs like the un ’ s “ ai for good ” campaign , which is aimed at fostering dialogue on the beneficial use of technology for humanitarian work , must receive the full support of policymakers .
but , most important , conversations about developing ai for humanitarian purposes can not be conducted in isolation by aid organizations , charities , and governments .
technology investors must also have a seat at the table .
for too long , technology entrepreneurs have focused on solving problems in the global north , while ignoring issues traditionally associated with developing countries .
but mobile technology is opening new doors of opportunity , and it now makes humanitarian and business sense to target ai solutions far beyond western countries .
that is why i established re wi red , a $ 100 million investment vehicle that supports embry onic ai and robotics firms engaged in addressing important social issues .
re wi red works with firms at the vanguard of machine perception – the ability of robots to understand and interpret the physical world .
we have invested in companies that are working to replicate human sm ell , to develop affordable and de x ter ous pros the tics , and to create portable machines designed to improve manufacturing processes .
our goal is to fund technologies with the potential to enhance quality of life in every country around the world .
and that , i believe , will be ai ’ s unifying characteristic .
the machines we create today will not only be profitable ; they will also bring us closer to solving some of the world ’ s biggest challenges .
economists vs. scientists on long-term growth
cambridge – most economic forecasters have largely shru gged off recent advances in artificial intelligence ( for example , the quantum leap demonstrated by deep mind ’ s self- learning chess program last december ) , seeing little impact on longer-term trend growth .
such pessimism is surely one of the reasons why real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remain extremely low , even if the bel l we ther us ten-year bond rate has tic ked up half a percentage point in the last few months .
if supply-side pessimism is appropriate , the recent massive tax and spending packages in the united states will likely do much more to raise inflation than to boost investment .
there are plenty of reasons to object to recent us fiscal policy , even if lowering the corporate-tax rate made sense ( albeit not by the amount enacted ) .
above all , we live in an era of rising inequality and falling income shares for labor relative to capital .
governments need to do more , not less , to redistribute income and wealth .
it is hard to know what us president donald trump is thinking when he boasts that his policies will deliver up to 6 % growth ( unless he is talking about prices , not output ! ) .
but if inflationary pressures do indeed materialize , current growth might last significantly longer than forecasters and markets believe .
in any case , the focus of economists ’ pessimism is long-term growth .
their stance is underpinned by the belief that advanced economies can not hope to repeat the dynamism that the us enjoyed from 199 5- 2005 ( and other advanced economies a bit later ) , much less the sal ad days of the 1950s and 1960s .
but the doub ters ought to consider the fact that many scientists , across many disciplines , see things differently .
young researchers , in particular , believe that advances in basic knowledge are coming as fast as ever , even if practical applications are taking a long time to develop .
indeed , a small but influential cult t outs the hungar ian- american mathemati ci an john von neu mann ’ s “ sing ul arity ” theory . someday , thinking machines will become so sophisticated that they will be able to invent other machines without any human intervention , and suddenly technology will advance exponentially .
if so , perhaps we should be far more worried about the ethical and social implications of material growth that is faster than humans can spir it ually absorb .
the ang st over ai mostly focuses on inequality and the future of work .
but as science fiction writers have long warned us , the potential threats arising from the birth of sil ic on-based “ life ” forms are truly frightening .
it is hard to know who is right : neither economists nor scientists have a great track record when it comes to making long-term predictions .
but right now , and leaving aside the possibility of an existential battle between man and machine , it seems quite plausible to expect a significant pick up in productivity growth over the next five years .
over the past 10-15 years , all three have been dis m ally low in the advanced economies .
labor force growth has slowed sharply , owing to declining birth rates , with immigration failing to compensate even in pre- trump america .
the influx of women into the labor force played a major role in boosting growth in the latter part of the twentieth century .
but now that has largely played out , although governments could do more to support female labor force participation and pay equity .
similarly , global investment has collapsed since the 2008 financial crisis ( though not in china ) , lowering potential growth .
and measured productivity growth has declined everywhere , falling roughly by half in the us since the tech boom of the mid- 1990s .
no wonder global real interest rates are so low , with high post-crisis savings chasing a smaller supply of investment opportunities .
still , the best bet is that ai and other new technologies will eventually come to have a much larger impact on growth than they have up to now .
it is well known that it can take a very long time for businesses to re imagine productive processes to exploit new technologies : rail roads and electricity are two leading examples .
the pick up in global growth is likely to be a catalyst for change , creating incentives for firms to invest and introduce new technologies , some of which will substitute for labor , offsetting the slowdown in the growth of the workforce .
with the after- effects of the financial crisis fading , and ai perhaps starting to gain traction , trend us output growth can easily stay strong for the next several years ( though , of course , a recession is also possible ) .
the likely corresponding rise in real global interest rates will be tricky for central bankers to navigate .
in the best case , they will be able to “ ride the wave , ” as alan greenspan famously did in the 1990s , though more inflation is likely this time .
the bottom line is that neither policymakers nor markets should be betting on the slow growth of the past decade carrying over to the next .
but that might not be entirely welcome news .
if the scientists are right , we may come to regret the growth we get .
mapping the future of ai
brigh ton – artificial intelligence already plays a major role in human economies and societies , and it will play an even bigger role in the coming years .
to ponder the future of ai is thus to acknowledge that the future is ai .
this will be partly owing to advances in “ deep learning , ” which uses multi layer ne ural networks that were first theor ized in the 1980s .
with today ’ s greater computing power and storage , deep learning is now a practical possibility , and a deep- learning application gained worldwide attention in 2016 by beating the world champion in go .
commercial enterprises and governments alike hope to adapt the technology to find useful patterns in “ big data ” of all kinds .
in 2011 , ibm ’ s watson marked another ai watershed , by beating two previous champions in jeopardy ! , a game that combines general knowledge with lat eral thinking .
and yet another significant development is the emerging “ internet of things , ” which will continue to grow as more gad gets , home appliances , we arable devices , and public ly- s ited sen sors become connected and begin to broadcast messages around the clock .
big brother won ’ t be watching you ; but a trillion little brothers might be .
beyond these innovations , we can expect to see countless more examples of what were once called “ expert systems ” : ai applications that aid , or even replace , human professionals in various speci alties .
similarly , robots will be able to perform tasks that could not be automated before .
already , robots can carry out virtually every role that humans once filled on a w are house floor .
given this trend , it is not surprising that some people foresee a point known as the “ sing ul arity , ” when ai systems will exceed human intelligence , by intellig ently improving themselves .
to all of this , i say : dream on .
artificial general intelligence ( ag i ) is still a pi pe dream .
it ’ s simply too difficult to master .
and while it may be achieved one of these days , it is certainly not in our foreseeable future .
but there are still major developments on the horizon , many of which will give us hope for the future .
for example , ai can make reliable legal advice available to more people , and at a very low cost .
and it can help us tackle currently incur able diseases and expand access to credible medical advice , without requiring additional medical specialists .
in other areas , we should be prudently pessimistic – not to say dy stop ian – about the future .
ai has worrying implications for the military , individual privacy , and employment .
automated weapons already exist , and they could eventually be capable of autonomous target selection .
as big data becomes more accessible to governments and multinational corporations , our personal information is being increasingly compromised .
and as ai takes over more routine activities , many professionals will be des killed and displaced .
the nature of work itself will change , and we may need to consider providing a “ universal income , ” assuming there is still a sufficient tax base through which to fund it .
a different but equally troubling implication of ai is that it could become a substitute for one- on- one human contact .
to take a trivial example , think about the an no y ance of trying to reach a real person on the phone , only to be passed along from one automated menu to another .
sometimes , this is v ex ing simply because you can not get the answer you need without the intervention of human intelligence .
or , it may be emotionally frustrating , because you are barred from expressing your feelings to a fellow human being , who would understand , and might even share your sentiments .
other examples are less trivial , and i am particularly worried about computers being used as “ car ers ” or “ compan ions ” for elderly people .
to be sure , ai systems that are linked to the internet and fur nished with personalized apps could inform and enter tain a lonely person , as well as monitor their vital signs and alert physicians or family members when necessary .
domestic robots could prove to be very useful for fet ching food from the fr id ge and completing other household tasks .
but whether an ai system can provide genuine care or compan ion ship is another matter altogether .
those who believe that this is possible assume that natural- language processing will be up to the task .
but “ the task ” would include having emo tion ally- laden conversations about people ’ s personal memories .
while an ai system might be able to recognize a limited range of emotions in someone ’ s voc ab ul ary , int on ation , pa uses , or fac ial expressions , it will never be able to match an appropriate human response .
it might say , “ i ’ m sorry you ’ re sad about that , ” or , “ what a lo vely thing to have happened ! ”
but either phrase would be literally meaningless .
a dem ented person could be “ comfor ted ” by such words , but at what cost to their human dignity ?
the alternative , of course , is to keep humans in these roles .
rather than replacing humans , robots can be human aids .
ideally , these jobs will gain more respect and remuner ation in the future .
but perhaps that is wishful thinking .
ultimately , the future of ai – our ai future – is bright .
but the brighter it becomes , the more shadows it will cast .
an ai wake-up call from ancient greece
stanford – in discussions about the implications of artificial intelligence ( ai ) , someone almost always evo kes the ancient greek myth of pandora ’ s box .
in the modern fair y tale version of the story , pandora is depicted as a trag ically curious young woman who opens a sealed ur n and inadvertently rele ases eternal misery on humankind .
like the gen ie that has escaped the bottle , the horse that has fled the bar n , and the train that has left the station , the myth has become a clich é .
and yet the actual story of pandora is far more a pro po s to debates about ai and machine learning than many realize .
what it shows is that it is better to listen to “ pro me the ans ” who are concerned about humanity ’ s future than “ ep im e the ans ” who are easily da zz led by the prospect of short-term gains .
one of the oldest greek myths , the story of pandora was first recorded more than 2,500 years ago , in the time of hom er .
in the original telling , pandora was not some innocent girl who succumbed to the temptation to open a forbidden j ar .
rather , as the poet hes i od tells us , pandora was “ made , not born . ”
having been commissioned by all-powerful ze us and designed to his cruel specific ations by he p ha est us , the god of invention , pandora was a lif eli ke and ro id created to look like a be wit ching ma id en .
her purpose was to entr ap mort als as a manifestation of kal on kak on : “ evil hidden in beauty . ”
pandora ’ s name means “ all gifts , ” and reflects the fact that all of the go ds contributed to her composition .
after her creation in he p ha est us ’ s forge , her mes es cor ted the rav ishing young “ woman ” down to earth and presented her as a br ide to ep im e the us .
her d ow ry was the fateful sealed j ar containing more “ gifts . ”
ep im e the us was brother to pro me the us , the rebel ti tan who championed – and , by some accounts , created – humankind .
pro me the us was concerned with humans ’ obvious vulnerability , so he taught men and women how to use fire and other tools responsibly .
but this en raged ze us , a merc il ess tyr ant who je al ously guarded his exclusive access to aw esome technologies .
as punishment , ze us bound pro me the us to a rock and sent his dr one- like eag le – also forged by he p ha est us – to feed on his liver .
for her part , pandora was deliberately devised to punish humankind for accepting the gift of fire from pro me the us .
essentially a seduc tive ai fem bo t , she had no parents , childhood memories , or emotions of any kind , nor would she ever age or die .
she was program med to carry out one mal evolent mission : to in sin uate herself in an earth ly setting and then un seal the j ar .
but that is still not the whole story .
as pl ato tells us , pro me the us ’ s name means “ foresight , ” because he was always looking ahead , unlike his care free brother , ep im e the us , whose name means “ hindsight . ”
as the more rational and justi fi ably paranoid of the two , pro me the us tried to warn his brother not to accept ze us ’ s dangerous gift .
but ep im e the us was ch armed by pandora and he ed lessly welcomed her into his life .
the popular image of pandora reeling back in horror as a cloud of evil swar ms out of the j ar is thus a modern invention .
so , too , is the clo ying image of hope emerging from the vess el last to so o the men ’ s sou ls .
in classical greek ren di tions , pandora is depicted as a c unning autom aton : the most famous v ase pain ting of her shows a young woman standing sti ff ly with an un cann y smile .
moreover , in antiqu ity , hope was person ified as a young woman named el pis , and usually stood for a lack of foresight .
rather than a boon , hope sign ified an inability to look ahead or choose sen sibly among possible outcomes ; she represented wishful thinking , not life- sustaining optimism .
and for the greeks , she was just another manifestation of kal os kak on : a beautiful evil that had been unleashed upon humans .
hence , at least one ancient artist depicted el pis / hope , much like pandora , with a sm ir king gr in .
with ai / machine learning quickly evolving into a “ black box ” technology , the symbol of pandora ’ s sealed j ar has taken on new meaning .
soon , the operational logic of ai decision-making systems will be ins cru table not just to their users , but also to their creators .
among other threats , the possibility that ai systems will be h acked by malign actors , or deployed by terrorists and tyr ants , now looms large .
when facebook founder mark zuckerberg , mit ’ s andrew mc af ee , l il i chen g of microsoft , and other ai optimists assure us that ai will bring great benefits , one can not help but think of ep im e the us and el pis .
should we really trust humanity to adjust and troubl es ho ot the problems posed by ai as they arise ?
it seems wiser to heed modern-day pro me the an thinkers such as the late stephen haw king , microsoft founder bill gates , and the 1 15 other tech leaders who in 2017 spoke out about the threat of weapon ized ai and robotics .
“ we do not have long to act , ” they warned . “ once this pandora ’ s box is opened , it will be hard to close . ”
moreover , these pro me the ans ’ concerns have been echoed by google co- founder serge y br in and ai eth ic ists such as jo anna br ys on and pat rick lin , who caution against reck lessly accepting ai ’ s “ gifts ” before fig uring out how to control them .
recent polls suggest that optimism about the potential benefits of ai has dropped significantly among those who are actually developing ai systems .
an understanding of how ai works would seem to cor relate with more realistic expectations .
rather than blind hope , foresight based on knowledge and experience should govern how we manage the future of this technology and our relationship with it .
on the cusp of an ai revolution
san francisco – over the last 30 years , consumers have re aped the benefits of dramatic technological advances .
in many countries , most people now have in their pockets a personal computer more powerful than the main fram es of the 1980s .
the at ari 8 0 0 x l computer that i developed games on when i was in high school was powered by a micro proc ess or with 3 ,500 tran sist ors ; the computer running on my i phone today has two billion tran sist ors .
back then , a gig aby te of storage cost $ 100,000 and was the size of a refriger ator ; today it ’ s basically free and is measured in mil li meters .
even with these massive gains , we can expect still faster progress as the entire planet – people and things – becomes connected .
already , five billion people have access to a mobile device , and more than three billion people can access the internet .
in the coming years , 50 billion things – from light bul bs to refriger ators , roads , clothing , and more – will be connected to the internet as well .
every generation or so , emerging technologies converge , and something revolutionary occurs .
for example , a maturing internet , affordable band wid th and fil e- com pression , and apple ’ s iconic i phone enabled companies such as uber , air bn b , youtube , facebook , and twitter to redefine the mobile- customer experience .
now we are on the cusp of another major convergence : big data , machine learning , and increased computing power will soon make artificial intelligence , or ai , ubiquitous .
so , as the world itself becomes more complex , ai will become the defining technology of the twenty-first century , just as the micro proc ess or was in the twentieth century .
consumers already encounter ai on a daily basis .
google uses machine learning to auto complete search qu eries and often accurately predicts what someone is looking for .
facebook and amazon use predictive algorithms to make recommendations based on a user ’ s reading or purchasing history .
ai is the central component in self- driving cars – which can now avoid coll is ions and traffic congestion – and in game- playing systems like google deep mind ’ s al p ha go , a computer that beat south korean go master lee se d ol in a five- game match earlier this year .
given ai ’ s wide applications , all companies today face an imperative to integrate it into their products and services ; otherwise , they will not be able to compete with companies that are using data- collection networks to improve customer experiences and inform business decisions .
the next generation of consumers will have grown up with digital technologies and will expect companies to anticipate their needs and provide instant , personalized responses to any qu ery .
so far , ai has been too costly or complex for many businesses to make optimal use of it .
it can be difficult to integrate into a business ’ s existing operations , and historically it has required highly skilled data scientists .
as a result , many businesses still make important decisions based on instinct instead of information .
this will change in the next few years , as ai becomes more pervasive , potentially making every company and every employee smarter , faster , and more productive .
machine learning algorithms can analyze billions of signals to route customer service calls automatically to the most appropriate agent or determine which customers are most likely to purchase a particular product .
and ai ’ s applications extend beyond online retail : br ick -and- mort ar stores still account for 90 % of retail sales , according to the consul t ancy a . t . ke ar ney .
soon , when customers enter a physical store , they will be greeted by inter active ch at- bo ts that can recommend products based on shopping history , offer special dis counts , and handle custom er- service issues .
advances in so-called “ deep learning , ” a branch of ai modeled after the brain ’ s ne ural network , could enable intelligent digital assist ants to help plan vac ations with the ac umen of a human assistant , or determine consumer sentiments toward a particular brand , based on millions of signals from social networks and other data sources .
in health care , deep- learning algorithms could help doctors identify canc er- cell types or intrac ran ial ab normal ities from anywhere in the world in real time .
to deploy ai effectively , companies will need to keep privacy and security in mind .
because ai is fueled by data , the more data the machine gains about an individual , the better it can predict their needs and act on their behalf .
but , of course , that massive flow of personal data could be appropri ated in ways that breach trust .
companies will have to be transparent about how they use people ’ s personal data .
ai can also detect and defend against digital security breaches , and will play a critical role in protecting user privacy and building trust .
as in past periods of economic transformation , ai will unleash new levels of productivity , augment our personal and professional lives , and pose existential questions about the age-old relationship between man and machine .
it will disrupt industries and dis locate workers as it autom ates more tasks .
but just as the internet did 20 years ago , ai will also improve existing jobs and spaw n new ones .
we should expect this and adapt accordingly by providing training for the jobs of tomorrow , as well as safety nets for those who fall behind .
ai is still a long way from sur passing human intelligence .
it has been 60 years since john mcc ar thy , a computer scientist and nominal father of ai , first introduced the term during a conference at dar t mouth college , and computers have only recently been able to detect c ats in youtube videos or determine the best route to the airport .
we can count on technological innovation to continue at an even more rapid pace than in previous generations .
ai will become like electrical current – invisible and augm enting almost every part of our lives .
jobs in the age of artificial intelligence
washington , dc – the world has no shortage of pressing issues .
there are 1.6 billion people living in acute poverty ; an estimated 7 80 million adults are illiterate .
serious problems are not confined to the developing world : “ deaths of despair , ” for example , are raising mortality among white males in the united states .
even when advanced economies grow , they are not lifting all boats .
higher- income groups thrive while lower-income households and minority groups are consistently left behind .
and now some analysts suggest that new forms of computer programming will compound these developments , as algorithms , robots , and self- driving cars destroy middle-class jobs and worsen inequality .
even the summary term for this technology , artificial intelligence , sounds ominous .
the human brain may be the “ most complex object in the known universe , ” but , as a species , we are not always collectively very smart .
best- selling science fiction writers have long predicted that we will one day invent the machines that destroy us .
the technology needed to create this dy stop ian future is not even on the horizon .
but recent breakthroughs in a i- related technologies do offer enormous potential for positive advances in a range of applications from transportation to education and drug discovery .
used wisely , this boost in our comput ational abilities can help the planet and some of its most vulnerable citizens .
we can now find new patterns that are not readily evident to the human observer – and this already suggests ways to lower energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions .
we can increase productivity in our factories and reduce food waste .
more broadly , we can improve prediction far beyond the ability of conventional computers .
think of the myriad activities in which a one- second warning would be useful or even lifes aving .
and yet the fear remains : won ’ t these same improvements entail giving up all of our jobs – or most of our good jobs ?
in fact , there are three reasons why the jobs apocalyp se is on hold .
first , mor av ec ’ s paradox applies .
h ans mor av ec and other computer scientists pointed out in the 1980s that what is simple for us is hard for even the most sophisticated ai ; conversely , ai often can do easily what we regard as difficult .
most humans can walk , manipulate objects , and understand complex language from an early age , never paying much attention to the amount of comput ation and energy needed to perform these tasks .
smart machines can perform mathematical calculations far exceeding a human ’ s capabilities , but they can not easily climb st airs , open a door , and turn a val ve .
or kick a soccer ball .
second , today ’ s algorithms are becoming very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with large data sets – finding objects in youtube videos or detec ting credit card fraud – but they are much less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or a bit “ no is y . ”
to handle such cases , you need a skilled person , with his or her experience , intuition , and social awareness .
third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done or why they are recomm ending a particular course of action .
in these “ black box es , ” you can not simply read the code to analyze what is happening or to check if there is a hidden bias .
when interpre tability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human in the decision-making loop .
but the nature of work will also change .
jobs today look very different from jobs 50 or even 20 years ago .
and new computer algorithms will take time to penetr ate the economy fully .
data- rich sectors such as digital media and e-commerce have just begun to unleash the capabilities ai has created .
the multitude of narrow ai applications that could affect jobs in sectors such as health care , education , and construction will take much longer to spread .
in fact , this may come just in time – an aging population in developed economies implies a smaller workforce – and greater need for personal care services – in the coming decades .
public policy decisions will shape the ai era .
we need opportunity and competition , not the growth of powerful monopolies , in order to promote technological progress in a way that does not leave a large number of people behind .
this requires improving access to all forms of education – and at low or zero cost .
with developed economies ’ competitors , including china , investing heavily in ai , policymakers should be increasing support for basic research and ensuring that their countries have the physical and human resources they need to invent and manufacture everything connected with this major new general purpose technology .
we should not underestimate humans ’ abilities to inflict damage on their community , their environment , and even the entire planet .
apocalyptic fiction writers may one day be proved correct .
but , for now , we have a powerful new tool for enabling all people to live better lives .
we should use it wisely .
a russian spring ?
paris – russia is not egypt .
and moscow is not on the eve of revolution as cairo was less than a year ago .
indeed , russia ’ s powerful have at their disposal assets that former egyptian president hosni mubarak ’ s regime lacked .
as an energy superpower , russia can open its coffers to appease , at least in part , the humiliation that it has inflicted on its citizens by fal si fying the country ’ s recent legislative election results .
and not all russians are in the streets .
we should be ware of the “ zo om effect , ” which made many people believe that the young protesters of cairo ’ s tahrir square were fully representative of egyptian society .
they were not .
rural egypt , like rural russia , is much more conservative than the young elites who seize the world ’ s imagination with their protests and embrace of modern social media .
furthermore , mubarak was old and sick , and no longer enjoyed the trust of his people .
vladimir putin , by contrast , exu des energy and health , and may still reassure many segments of russian society whose main concern is their country ’ s glory rather than its citizens ’ happiness .
yet putin may be over playing the mach o card so excessively that it could backfire and contribute to his isolation from russia ’ s urban and more educated voters .
but , even if the tens of thousands of demonstrators are unlikely to threaten the survival of putin ’ s regime , the kremlin would be wise to take them seriously .
the protesters ’ trad em ark so far has been moderation and restraint ; nothing would be more dangerous than violent repression .
beyond the issue of violence , the russian authorities would take a huge historical risk by failing to register the public ’ s growing alienation .
from the standpoint of condemning elite behavior , russian protesters evo ke , at least partly , the actors of the arab revolution .
in their den unciation of “ soviet electoral practices , ” they reject the combination of despo tism and corruption that characterized soviet power yesterday and russian power today – rhetoric familiar from arab revolutionaries .
as young arabs told the rulers of libya , egypt , tunisia , syria , yemen , and other arab countries , this new generation of russians is telling putin : “ get out ! ”
but most participants hold few illusions about the efficacy of their protest .
they want to express to russia ’ s rulers the extent of their frustration and determination .
they may not expect regime change , but they expect at least some minimal reforms .
above all , they want to set limits on putin ’ s power .
but their protest ’ s ironic consequence may be that the more moderate of the two figures at the summit of russian politics , dmitri medvedev , will not return to the post of prime minister , as had been planned .
a game of political mus ical chairs would simply be too much in the eyes of too many russians .
the protests have caught the kremlin ’ s masters , as well as the majority of russia ’ s citizens , by surprise .
they failed to recognize that globalization – particularly the global information revolution – has made the world more transparent and interdependent than ever .
the protesters of madrid were inspired by those of cairo , and were themselves a source of inspiration from new york to tel aviv – and , subsequently , to moscow .
a lesson emerges : with the deepening of the economic crisis , on the one hand , and instant global connectivity , on the other , what was accepted yesterday is regarded as intolerable today .
that applies to russia , too .
for a long time , russia has perceived itself as a “ white africa . ”
the average life expectancy of russian men , slightly below 60 , is more african than european ( or even asian , for the most part ) .
the corrupt enrichment of so many russian elites mim ics the disastrous habits of many of their african counterparts .
but this comparison has limits .
despite its many problems , africa today has become a continent of hope .
its population is exploding , as are its economic-growth rates .
sen egal ese firms seek to help their spanish business partners , while portugal extends an almost royal welcome to the leaders of their former col ony , newly oil-rich angola .
africa is on the rise , while russia is on the decline .
the democratic idealism that accompanied the fall of communism 20 years ago is gone , but the “ imperial pride ” recovered in part during the putin years may not be enough to compensate for the contempt with which the russian state treats its citizens .
russia ’ s demonstrators ’ message is simple : “ too much corruption , disdain , and inequality is too much . ”
russia , like the arab world , wants modernity .
ben bernanke ’ s global legacy
washington , dc – the world is still struggling to dig est alan greenspan ’ s mixed legacy as chairman of the us federal reserve board from 1987 to 2006 .
so it is too soon to assess whether his depar ting successor , ben bernanke , is headed for history ’ s ch opping block or its pe dest al .
but the crucial international role that bernanke and the fed played during his tenure – a time when domestic economic weakness translated into relatively ineffective american global leadership – should not be overlooked .
let us consider each .
whatever the impact of qe on the us economy , its impact on the rest of the world has been , on balance , generally benign .
the first round of qe was unambiguously beneficial , because it minim ized , or even eliminated , the tail risk of a global depression after the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 .
to be sure , subsequent action by the fed received a mixed reception in the rest of the world .
in 2010 and 2011 , when qe pushed capital to emerging markets , there were complaints that the us was practicing a form of currency manipulation .
since may 2013 , when bernanke signaled the possibility of unwinding qe , emerging economies have faced the opposite type of pressure : capital outflows and sharp currency adjustments .
but in both cases , the problems for which blame was he aped on the fed largely reflected macroeconomic mismanagement in the affected countries .
for example , brazil complained most voc ally about capital inflows , because its currency had over- appreciated in a short period of time ; but the main culprits were domestic wage increases and overheating , not the fed ’ s policies .
likewise , india was severely affected by bernanke ’ s suggestion that the fed would “ taper ” qe , but only because its economy was characterized by high inflation and large budget and external deficits .
it was as if the emerging markets had forgotten that exposure to fed policies was part of the bargain they willingly made when they signed on to financial globalization .
meanwhile , the fed has been mindful of its international responsibilities , playing a constructive role by increasing dollar liquidity in times of extreme financial stress .
it pro vide d dollar liquidity ( via swap lines ) to the central banks of brazil , mexico , singapore , and south korea in the aftermath of the lehman failure .
and it has provided nearly unlimited amounts of similar liquidity to central banks in europe and the bank of japan .
these actions contributed to easing extremely tight financial conditions and corresponding market volatility .
the fed ’ s support to emerging-market central banks was remarkable , because most of these countries chose not to borrow from the international monetary fund , which , in the aftermath of the asian financial crisis in the 1990 ’ s , had come to be considered an instrument of us hegemony .
they preferred to deal directly with the united states via the fed , to which the imf stigma evidently did not extend .
in fact , the speed , tim el iness , and effectiveness of fed support have now led to efforts to institute similar mechanisms at the imf .
the fed ’ s support for europe was similarly remarkable , because the rest of the us government was an ineffective by stand er at the time – able to offer cheap counsel but little hard cash to the eurozone ’ s distressed economies .
even efforts to augment the imf ’ s resources fl ound ered on the re ef of american political dysfunction .
all other major economies , including key us allies , have enacted the legislation needed to strengthen the imf ; in the us , however , there has been no comparable action since 2010 , owing to congressional resistance .
the explanation for the fed ’ s exceptional role in the context of otherwise anemic american international leadership is simple : though the us economy is weak , and american politics is polarized to the point of paralysis , the dollar is still in demand .
in these circumstances , bernanke effectively leveraged his role as control ler of the mighty dollar- printing machine known as the us federal reserve .
dollar supremacy will not last forever , and it is increasingly being challenged by the chinese renminbi , as i describe in my book ecli pse : living in the shadow of china ’ s economic dominance .
but that v estig ial source of american supremacy made bernanke a constructive and effective international leader .
as he de parts from office , the assessment of his performance as “ helicopter ben , ” who dropped piles of cash on the us economy , will begin in ear nest .
but history should not neglect “ ambassador ben ’ s ” crucial global role .
spain ’ s human-rights dilemma
new york – spanish mps want to legisl ate restraints that would prevent a few of the country ’ s judges from exercising what has seemed like a ro ving license to prosecute in spanish courts human-rights violations committed anywhere in the world .
in a current case , a spanish judge is seeking arrest warr ants against jiang z em in , the former president of china , and li pen g , a former chinese prime minister , for alleged crimes committed in tibet .
the spanish mps have a point : allowing the country ’ s prosecuting mag istr ates to select targets from anywhere in the world , without there being a clear legal nexus to spain , is an invitation to politici ze the process .
but it is also important to preserve the core principle underlying these prosecu tions : the concept of universal jurisdiction .
indeed , it is a concept with ancient origins , and it plays a crucial role in the global protection of human rights .
universal jurisdiction originated in greek and roman times in the struggle against piracy .
because pir ates committed their crimes on the high seas , beyond the territory of any state , the idea developed that they were enemies of humanity whom any state could prosecute .
in the seventeenth century , the dutch scholar hugo gro ti us , who is recognized for co di fying international law , argued that pir ates could be tried for their crimes , regardless of where they were committed , abo ard the ships that captured them .
following the 18 1 4- 18 15 congress of vienna , with its condemnation of slavery , some states applied the concept to slave traders , who also committed many of their crimes outside national jurisdictions .
later , the crimes of the nazis played an essential part in winning widespread acceptance of the concept of universal jurisdiction .
at the end of world war ii , nazi leaders fled , re locating all over the world .
countries like canada and australia , seeking certainty that those who had committed horr end ous crimes would not find safe haven within their borders , established the authority to try suspects in their own courts .
the concept has since been embodied in treaties that virtually every country in the world has ratified .
the 1949 geneva conventions require states to search for those who have committed war crimes and either prosecute them in their own courts or turn them over to another state that is prepared to try them .
similarly , the 1984 convention against torture requires states to establish their own jurisdiction to prosecute torture if an off ender is on their territory and is not ex trad ited to stand trial in the country where the crime was committed .
a crucial test of universal jurisdiction is now moving forward in senegal , where one of africa ’ s cruel est dictators , h iss è ne hab r é , who ruled chad from 1982 to 1990 , is set to be prosecuted .
a commission of inquiry established that , during its time in power , hab r é ’ s regime carried out torture and was responsible for the deaths of an estimated 40,000 people .
when hab r é was deposed , he fled to senegal with a substantial portion of the national treasury , living there in comfort with much of his extended family , as well as key supporters .
for many years , african human-rights activists , aided by human rights watch , struggled to hold him accountable .
now , at long last , with the support of the african union , he faces trial in his adopted home for the crimes he committed in chad .
a related practice has developed in the united states , where victims of human-rights crimes committed elsewhere file civil suits against immigrant perpetrators .
in a substantial number of cases since the early 1980 ’ s , us courts have ordered the def endants to pay compensation to the victims .
most often , universal jurisdiction is invoked when the person alleged to have committed war crimes , crimes against humanity , or genocide in another country is present in the territory where he or she is to be tried .
this is consistent with the principle that there should be no safe haven for those who commit such crimes .
if spain incorpor ates such a requirement in its law , and also provides for some other appropriate connection ( such as the inclusion of span i ards among the victims ) , it will overcome the tendency of a few of its judges to reach out too widely .
such a reform would remain faithful to the principles of justice that underlie the concept of universal jurisdiction .
as china turns
when deng xiaoping began to open china in the late 1970 ’ s , he said , “ it doesn ’ t matter if a cat is black or white . as long as it cat ches m ice , it is a good cat . ”
this motto helped catalyze china into becoming what it is today : an increasingly materi alistic , money- wor shipping society that has lost touch with traditional ethics .
nothing captures this moral vacuum more viv idly than the recent television drama , “ w o ju  ” ( “ crowded spaces ” ) , which has been riv eting chinese audiences .
the program ’ s “ hero , ” gu o ha iz ao , is a fair - sk in ned and innocent 25- year-old woman living near shanghai .
but , even with a university degree , life in go- go shanghai turns out not to be as she had imagined .
“ why is the world so full of un fairness , with the lim el ight only spl ashing on the pret ti est spots in the city ? ” she wonders one night , as she worries about her and her sister ’ s struggle to buy a home .
as song sim ing , a hand some , successful , and audi - driving – but also married – secretary to the mayor , tells her , “ on those un sigh tly corners in the dark where dir t , flies , and r ats w ander , nobody 's paying attention . ”
song is a resour ceful man who o o zes charm .
gu o soon becomes in tox icated by his air of can - do and success .
when problems arise , he makes a quick phone call and gets things “ sett led . ” little by little , gu o finds herself taken in by his charm and ability to get things done .
before long , she is cheating on her boy friend and sw o oning into song ’ s arms and bed .
when gu o over he ars fights between her sister and brother -in- law in their cr am med r ented room , her aspirations to get an apartment through hard work , and to start a family with her boy friend and so on- to- be husband , begin to fade .
she is tempted by the short cut song promises and allows herself to be seduc ed by him in turn for a large sum of cash and luxury apartment . soon she is even pregnant .
“ w o ju  ” is an adaptation of a novel about recent skyrocketing housing prices in chinese cities – especially in shanghai – and the effect of real-estate fever on young chinese men and women in today ’ s ge t- rich - by- an y- means china .
through the so ap oper a , viewers get a sense of how the chinese dream has begun to center around property ownership rather than education or love , and how this change has been transforming chinese society , sometimes in startling ways .
these changes have created a new kind of hope and despair among the generation of chinese now coming of age .
but , of course , the sub- text is that if this fix ation on property has also led to greater pragmatism in affairs of the heart , it has also led to a worrisome property bubble that many economists now fear could soon burst .
then , because this is a so ap oper a , song suddenly dies in a car crash , just as he is rushing to the hospital – while being ch ased by corruption investigators ! – to check on his swe e the art and their un born baby boy .
but , as it happens , only days before gu o secretly had an abortion , right after a dramatic fight with song ’ s wife .
as fant astic and con vol uted as the plot sometimes gets , “ w o ju  ” offers a tru thful look at what anim ates contemporary chinese society : property , money , sex , cars , and power .
perhaps because it captures the ze it ge ist so well , the program has become hugely popular , so much so that it has recently caught the attention of media cen sors .
indeed , its realistic use of prof an ity and its depic tion of the spiritual vacuum that grips china got it ban ished from one of beijing ’ s tv channels .
while the official media are flooding television and cin em a screens with propaganda about confuci us , ancient fair y tal es , and k ung fu  ep ics , “ w o ju  ” engages a broad cross- section of contemporary society , which sees in it troubling aspects of their own lives : official corruption , mist res ses , even house sl aves .
as song arrog antly says to gu o before he dies , “ as long as it ’ s a problem that we can solve with money , then it ’ s not a big problem . ”
the program has caused a tsunami of online reflection .
many web sites and bul let in boards have run surveys with questions like , “ if you were gu o ha iz ao , would you choose song sim ing and an apartment or xia obe i ( the d umped boy friend ) and true love ? ”
on one of china ’ s largest sites , 46 % picked song , while only 22 % chose the young boy friend , a choice that suggests where the new generation ’ s values now lay .
the traditional virtues of “ true love ” have been replaced by pragmatism and a willingness to become a mist ress before youth exp ires and all chances of getting a good apartment are lost .
after all , many ne ti z ens now argue , does not such a practical course of action save many years of hard work ?
one recent internet mat ch- making effort attracted applications from more than 10,000 young women , all seeking a chance to marry a shenzhen multi- mil lion aire sight un seen .
that was not the first lottery marriage in today ’ s china , and it surely will not be the last .
the most interesting thing about “ w o ju  ” may be that most viewers do not dislike song , the str ing- pulling mayor ’ s secretary .
indeed , while song may be cast as an anti- hero , in contemporary china , he is considered a “ good catch . ”
a scientific method for the sdgs
paris – in just the latest example of popular support for science , tens of thousands of people around the world recently marched to advocate for a worldview based on facts , not fiction .
they understand that science could actually save the world , because it can help us solve our greatest health and development problems .
those problems are at the heart of the united nations sustainable development goals , which the international community agreed to in 2015 , with the aim of creating a more prosperous , equitable , and healthy planet by 2030 .
the 17 sdgs , which include 16 9 individual targets , constitute an ambitious agenda to address everything from gender equity to sustainable cities and climate change .
all told , they provide an inclusive vision of sustainable development for the twenty-first century .
but compreh en siveness can come at the expense of effective action .
few people can actually name all of the sdgs , much less explain how every country can achieve them over the next 13 years .
experts around the world – including all of those who have gathered in new york this week for the un ocean conference – are wrest ling with individual targets or goals .
and yet integrating these efforts remains a formidable challenge .
if our leaders are ever to realize the world envisioned in the sdgs , they will need a roadmap for navigating the complex policymaking terrain .
scientists are well positioned to provide this roadmap , because they know how to ask the right questions , design experiments , draw evid enc ed -based conclusions , and apply new information to existing knowledge .
better still , scientists enjoy sharing their findings with others .
the international council for science ( ic su ) recently brought together 22 scientists from various fields – including oce ano graphy , epidemi ology , agr onom y , and energy economics – to come up with s dg - specific insights for world leaders to follow .
by studying how different goals and targets relate to one another , we developed an independent analytical framework to help leaders prioritize policies within their own countries .
some sdgs have reinforcing relationships , whereby achieving one will make it easier to achieve others .
at the same time , some sdgs may be in conflict , if progress in one area comes at the expense of others .
while we have long known that the sdgs interact with one another , the ic su study is the first time that these interactions have been systematically quanti fied .
for example , we selected the four sdgs relating to hunger , health , energy , and oceans , and then identified every possible interaction between them and the other goals and targets .
we then developed a seven - point scale , ranging from + 3 when a given goal or target strongly reinforces another , to - 3 when achieving one goal makes it essentially impossible to reach another .
by applying this scale to different sdg relationships , we were able to answer some important questions .
for example , we could determine if protecting the oceans will stifle economic growth and urban development in a particular country or region .
and we could determine if increasing agricultural production would make it harder to manage natural resources ; or if expanding renewable-energy sources would deple te the water supply in already- ar id regions .
one exciting discovery we ’ ve made is that most sdg targets actually do reinforce one another .
for example , helping the world ’ s poorest people shift away from traditional fuels such as fire wood , char coal , and animal d ung would go a long way toward reducing deaths and illnesses from air pollution , especially among women and children .
and in cases where different goals do not align , policymakers can make adjustments as needed .
for example , we found that increased agricultural production can damage the oceans if it adds to nutri ent run -off and other forms of pollution ; and this , in turn , could undermine health and long-term food security .
moreover , our approach had benefits beyond the immediate quantitative findings , because it united scientists from different disciplines around a shared goal .
this was no easy task : scientists are critical consumers of information , and they do not always agree with one another .
breaking down disciplinary sil os and bringing together different voices is a significant achievement in itself .
it can serve as an example for leaders in government , business , and civil society to follow .
so , where do we go from here ?
our analytical framework can help countries figure out which sdgs benefit others , and which do not .
with it , policymakers can prioritize goals and investments ; map existing resources and identify budget gaps ; and establish mechanisms for sharing data and information across sectors .
more generally , each country will need to monitor its progress toward each sdg , and revise its approach as needed .
this will require dilig ence from all policymakers .
but the potential return on investment , not least a better planet for generations to come , is enormous .
whether science really will save the world remains to be seen .
but one thing we know is that scientists can point us in the right direction .
asean at 50
singapore – we live in troubled times , with pessimism clou ding even the most prosperous parts of the planet .
many are convinced that the international order is falling apart .
some fear that a clash of civilizations is imminent , if it has not already begun .
yet , amid the glo om , southeast asia offers an unexpected glim mer of hope .
the region has made extraordinary progress in recent decades , achieving a level of peace and prosperity that was previously unimaginable .
and it owes much of this success to the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , which marks its 50th anniversary this month .
southeast asia is one of the world ’ s most diverse regions .
its 6 40 million people include 2 40 million muslims , 120 million christians , 150 million buddh ists , and millions of hindus , ta o ists , confuci an ists , and communists .
its most populous country , indonesia , is home to 2 61 million people , while brun ei has just 4 50,000 .
singapore ’ s per capita income of $ 5 2, 9 60 per ann um is 2 2.5 times that of laos ( $ 2, 3 53 ) .
this diversity puts southeast asia at a distinct disadvantage in terms of fostering regional cooperation .
when asean was founded in 1967 , most experts expected it to die within a few years .
at the time , southeast asia was a poor and deeply troubled region , which the british historian c . a . fish er had described as the balkans of asia .
the vietnam war was underway , and the sino- vietnamese war was yet to be fought .
many viewed the five non- communist states that founded asean – indonesia , malaysia , the philippines , singapore , and thailand – as domin oes , set to be tipped over by a neighbor ’ s fall to communism or descent into civil strife .
but asean defied expectations , becoming the world ’ s second most successful regional organization , after the european union .
some 1,000 asean meetings are held each year to deepen cooperation in areas such as education , health , and diplomacy .
asean has signed free-trade agreements ( ft as ) with china , japan , india , south korea , australia , and new zealand , and established an asean economic community .
as i explain in my book the asean miracle , several factors have underpinned the bloc ’ s success .
at first , anti- communism provided a powerful incentive to collaborate .
strong leaders , like indonesia ’ s su har to , former malaysian prime minister ma hath ir mohammed , and singapore ’ s founding father lee ku an ye w , held the group together .
it helped that as asean was getting off the ground in the late 1960s and early 1970s , the strategic interests of america , china , and the bloc ’ s members conver ged .
but even when the cold war ended , the region did not erupt into conflict , as the real balkans did .
asean countries maintained the cooperative habits that had become established in southeast asia in the 1970s and 1980s .
in fact , asean ’ s er st while communist enemies – cambodia , laos , and vietnam – decided to join the bloc .
so , too , did myanmar , ending decades of isolation .
asean ’ s policy of engaging myanmar attracted criticism from the west , but it helped lay the groundwork for a peaceful transition from military rule .
( compare this to the west ’ s policy of isolation toward , say , syria , which certainly won ’ t lead to a similar outcome . )
to be sure , asean is far from perfect .
over the short term , it seems to move like a cr ab – two steps forward , one step back , and one step si de ways .
yet asean ’ s long-term progress is undeniable .
its combined gdp has grown from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 .
and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all of the world ’ s great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia .
asean continues to face serious challenges .
territorial disputes in the south china sea have created deep divisions , and the intensifying geopolitical rivalry between the us and china poses a further threat to cohesion .
and domestic politics in several member states , including malaysia and thailand , is becoming increasingly chaotic .
but asean ’ s history suggests that the bloc can weather these storms .
its impressive resilience is rooted in the culture of mus y awar ah and mu fa k at ( consultation and consensus ) championed by indonesia .
imagine how other regional organizations , such as the gulf cooperation council or the south asian association of regional cooperation , could benefit from adherence to such norms .
the eu once amounted to the gold standard for regional cooperation .
but it continues to struggle with a seemingly never-ending series of crises and weak economic growth .
add to that the impending departure of the united kingdom , and it seems only prudent to seek other models of cooperation .
asean , however imperfect , provides an attractive one .
the eu was awarded the nobel peace prize in 2012 .
but asean ’ s approach may turn out to be the way of the future , enabling other frac tious regions to develop st ur dy bonds of cooperation , too .
tr ashing the asean brand
can ber ra – having a reputation for integrity and decency matters as much in international relations as in professional and personal life .
by contrast , those that never earn – or fr itter away – such a reputation can seriously endanger their own interests , jeopardizing trade , tourism , foreign investment , political support in international forums and negotiations , and the security of their own nationals abroad .
three of southeast asia 's most important states – malaysia , thailand , and now indonesia – have brought trouble on themselves in this respect in recent months .
all three are raising serious doubts , in different ways , about their commitment to the rule of law , the integrity of their judicial systems , and the quality of mercy in the administration of justice .
in malaysia , the country 's highest court last month rejected opposition leader anwar ibrahim 's appeal against a five-year prison sentence and a ban against running for public office for a further five years – a shocking and inde f ensible decision .
prime minister na ji b raz ak 's government was transparently v indic tive in pursuing allegations of so dom y ( a crime rarely prosecuted in malaysia ) against anwar .
the evidence against him was obviously in conclusive ; and the court 's acceptance of it was manifest ly cr av en .
if the fiction is maintained that the court was merely doing its judicial duty as it saw it , decency could still prevail : anwar could be granted executive cl em ency .
but there is no sign that na ji b 's government will advise such action .
anwar 's real crime was that his opposition coalition of conservative muslim , secular , and chinese parties was seriously challenging the six- decade supremacy of na ji b 's united mal ays national organization ( umno ) , losing the 2013 election only because of a transparent ger ry man der .
in thailand , the biggest crime of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra and his supporters was to keep winning national elections with populist campaigns that threatened the interests of the country 's long- established bang ko k -based elite .
serious wrong doing , involving bribery and institutional corruption , no doubt occurred along the way ; but the scale of such offenses could hardly justify last year 's military coup and the subsequent repression .
some of those in the arm y- installed national reform council and constitutional drafting committee have a real interest in ensuring that thailand 's next constitution – the 20th since 1932 – will be genuinely democratic .
many do want to end , once and for all , the corrupt , vo te- buying culture that has long afflicted thai politics on both sides .
but true reform can be achieved only in a spirit of reconciliation , and the military regime 's crude impeachment of deposed prime minister y ing luck shinawatra ( thaksin 's sister ) in january – on trumpe d-up charges that seemed f lim sy even to many of her di e hard opponents – has made that impossible .
the law , once again , has been used for na ke dly political ends .
indonesia 's case is different from the other two , and less extreme , but also troubling for the country 's reputation .
the grass ro ot s- driven victory of president jo ko “ jokowi '' wi do do last year triumph antly consolidated the country 's democratic transition , and raised high expectations for human-rights and anti-corruption campaigners .
but , domestically , confidence in jokowi 's capacity and will to tackle corruption has eroded with his nomination – only very bel atedly withdrawn – of a suspic iously wealthy but politically well- connected candidate for national police chief .
internationally , concern has been growing about jokowi 's stated determination to allow – after a long moratorium – the execu tions of scores of convicted drug traffickers to proceed .
his stance reflects no consideration of whether their individual cases might justify cl em ency , as well as apparent indifference to mounting evidence that sent encing in capital cases might have owed less to a case 's merits than to the presence or absence of bribes .
two australian drug traffickers have been scheduled for execution this month .
while no one doubts that they were properly convicted ten years ago , their behavior since – and questions about the integrity of the judicial process that condemned them to die but allowed others to live – has made a compelling case for the exercise of mercy , for them and for others .
what does not yet seem to have registered with jokowi , or with enough of his fellow citizens , is the in con gr uity of refusing even to consider cl em ency for those on indonesia 's death row , while lobbying passion ately for cl em ency for more than 200 indones ians condemned to die elsewhere , notably in the gulf .
decency can be credibly demanded of others only if one practices it oneself .
it seems only a matter of time before indones ians start feeling the pain of this in consistency .
malaysia has earned worldwide condemnation for its handling of the anwar affair , and thailand has lost many international friends since its latest coup , reflected in a humiliating loss in its recent bid for a seat on the un human rights council .
thai diplomats fear another such defeat in their country 's current attempt to win a seat on the un security council .
there are some larger regional consequences in all of this .
the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) has ten ac iously fought for its place as the geopolitical hin ge between east and south asia , and an important player in asia-pacific economic and security diplomacy .
the question that asean leaders must now ask themselves is just how much tr ashing of the southeast asian brand , by how many of its members simultaneously , the region can afford while still fully realizing its aspirations for economic growth and political influence .
it is always tempting to claim that what happens behind sovereign borders is nobody else 's business .
but that is no longer true in today 's interconnected world .
some states may be big and powerful enough to get away with behaving badly , but winning respect for behaving well is a much stronger foundation for economic and political success .
un shack ling asean
singapore – as the association of southeast asian nations approaches its 50th anniversary next year , its failure to reach a consensus regarding chinese territorial claims in the south china sea has raised concerns throughout the region .
although the requirement that all decisions be made by consensus enables disparate member states to unite while protecting their national interests , it also limits asean ’ s effectiveness in dealing with emerging security threats .
the consensus rule explains why asean failed to present a united front after the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks in the united states , and in the subsequent us-led war on terror .
similarly , asean ’ s response to north korea ’ s provocations – such as ongoing nuclear tests and the 2010 attack that sunk the south korean cor ve tte che on an , killing 46 seam en – has been muted , owing to some asean member states ’ sympathy for the north korean regime .
the territorial disputes in the south china sea are the strongest indicator yet that asean ’ s consensus principle is limiting the organization ’ s effectiveness .
the question of how to respond to growing chinese assertiveness in the region has divided asean member states more deeply than any previous issue has .
at the asean ministerial meeting in 2012 , the organization failed to issue a joint statement for the first time in its history , because cambodia refused to allow any mention of incidents caused by china in the south china sea .
in july 2016 , asean foreign ministers failed to mention in their joint communiqué the landmark ruling against china that had been issued just two weeks before by an international arbitr al tribunal on the disputes .
asean ’ s failure to act on the south china sea issue is leading memb er- state governments and citizens to question the organization ’ s ability “ to maintain and enhance peace ” – the first purpose listed in its charter .
what ’ s more , the current stalemate will likely force certain member states to address the issue through other means , which will ultimately jeopardize asean ’ s regional and international relevance .
asean must solve its consensus dilemma , through either procedural reforms or institutional innovations .
for starters , it should follow a previous suggestion , made by the asean eminent persons group in 2006 , to introduce majority decision-making .
with asean ’ s range of activities broadening , the ep g observed , it should “ consider alternative and flexible decision-making mechanisms , ” including voting .
the european union embraced this governance mechanism long ago , and even within asean there is precedent for major ity- vote decision-making , particularly on geopolitical and security issues .
for example , the 1995 treaty on the southeast asia nuclear weap on- free zone established a commission that , “ failing consensus , ” can make decisions by a two-thirds majority .
when asean member states can not reach a consensus , they should distinguish between two types of issues to determine the path forward : those that have obvious implications for the sovereignty , territorial integrity , and domestic autonomy of a member state ; and those that have obvious implications for regional security .
asean member states should seek consensus in the former case , unless the country in question decides otherwise .
but in the latter case , they should have the option to conduct a majority vote .
accordingly , if an issue has significant regi on al- security implications and does not concern a given member state ’ s sovereignty , territorial integrity , or political autonomy , that state should not be allowed to sid eline all other member states ’ interests at the expense of regional peace .
another way out of the consensus dilemma is to create new institutional frameworks .
for example , an asean commission for the management of south china sea disputes , operating through majority voting , could establish asean ’ s position on the issue and li aise with china to resolve disagreements when they arise .
alternatively , asean member states with territorial claims in the south china sea could align and include non- claim ant asean member states .
a south china sea caucus within asean could shape a common position among its own members ahead of as e an- related meetings , and make an as e an- wide consensus on the issue more likely .
if these options fail , all like-minded countries in the region , regardless of their south china sea claims or asean membership , should form a larger caucus to address the issue , by formulating a shared position in regi on- wide platforms such as the asean regional forum and the east asia summit .
including non- member countries could undermine asean ’ s unity ; but that is a tradeoff asean member states will have to accept if they decide to adhere strictly to consensus decision-making .
that said , the consensus principle should not be abandoned .
it is in asean ’ s best interest to reach a consensus on important issues whenever possible – including on the south china sea dispute if it proves not to be a serious threat to regional peace .
to this end , asean member states should foster more trust , cooperation , and dialogue among themselves , and with china .
all asean member states must strike a balance between their respective national interests and broader regional interests .
for its part , china should be more sensitive to asean member states ’ security concerns , and act to turn the south china sea into a haven for peace and prosperity , rather than an arena for tensions and rivalry .
asean ’ s new approach to myanmar
new york – the recent decision by myanmar ’ s government to sentence pro-democracy leader aung san suu kyi to a further 18 months ’ house arrest shows how difficult it is to deal with that country ’ s ruling generals .
yet the first steps toward a new approach may already have been taken .
the clearest sign comes from the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , of which myanmar is a member .
at first , most of asean ’ s member governments responded mil dly to the verdict , expressing their “ disappointment ” – a stance that reflects the group ’ s principle of non interference in fellow members ’ internal politics .
but thai foreign minister k asi t pi rom ya then consulted his counterparts in cambodia , indonesia , singapore , and vietnam .
as current asean chair , he flo ated the idea of concer tedly requ esting a pardon for aung san suu kyi .
asean government officials have since met to draft a text .
approval by the association ’ s foreign ministers may come in september , with asean leaders tackling the issue in october .
of course , amendments and objections to the draft should be expected .
but the pardon request is already significant .
it seeks to be fin ely balanced , respecting the regime ’ s sovereignty while sub tly pressing home the point in un ison , as neighboring states .
the request would be pol itely wor ded , but it would also be an official and public mode of communication , instead of the usual behin d-the- scenes quiet diplomacy .
what asean says or does not say will not change things immediately .
cyn ics might add that even if aung san suu kyi is par don ed , she may yet still be detained on political grounds or face other barriers aimed at preventing her from competing in the elections promised in myanmar for 2010 .
but western sanctions have not worked , either .
since the 1990 ’ s crackdown , human rights violations have continued , most recently with the suppression of the protests led by buddhist monks in 2007 .
the average citizen has grown poorer , even as those close to the junta become ost ent ati ously rich .
western sanctions instead paved the way for investments in myanmar by those with less concern about human rights violations – first by asean neighbors in hotels and other sectors , and more recently by china and india , which are v ying for projects and influence in the strategic energy sector .
as a result , myanmar ’ s generals have been able to play one side off against another .
the game , however , may now be changing .
asean ’ s initiative is a new step forward for the group .
while asean rejected previous calls to impose sanctions , or even to exp el myanmar , this step shows that it will not remain iner t regardless of what the generals do .
the asean effort coin cides with two other developments .
one is the decision by the united states to reconsider its policy of sanctions , becoming more flexible while remaining true to its values and interests .
some activists have criticized us senator jim web b ’ s journey to y ang on to obtain the release of john ye t ta w , the american whose actions triggered the charges against aung san suu kyi .
but this is consistent with the obama administration ’ s policy of seeking a dialogue even with those who are not america ’ s friends .
such dialogue is vital if myanmar is to be prevented from possibly pursuing nuclear weapons and rigg ing elections , à la iran .
the other development is less obvious .
after the court delivered its verdict , the regime halved the sentence and agreed to keep aung san suu kyi under house arrest , rather than moving her to one of its worst j ails .
this may not seem like much of a concession .
but the junta seems to be trying to cause less offense .
consider , too , the junta ’ s gesture in handing over ye t ta w to senator web b , and its interaction with the international community on humanitarian assistance after cycl one n arg is .
might it be possible that the generals in myanmar recognize that they are in a cu l de sac  ?
could the regime be seeking ways out of its isolation in the run-up to the 2010 elections ?
could it welcome dialogue and engagement ?
how the generals respond to the asean request will be an important signal of the regime ’ s intentions .
even if the regime does want to begin talking , sustaining a dialogue will be no easier than has been the case with north korea .
asean , as the organization of neighboring states , is important to achieving that goal , but us involvement is key , as is inclusion of china and india .
they must be pressed to see more than the opportunity for strategic access to energy and other natural resources .
japan , too – still the largest asian economy and a traditional donor to the region – must also play a role .
a moral but pragmatic community needs to be constructed , with all in agreement on how to deal with myanmar .
even if , like an orchestr a , different countries use different instruments and play different notes , the main theme must be consistent .
if this can be done , the chances of progress in the run-up to the 2010 elections will be strengthened .
success may still prove elusive , but a new game with a greater possibility for success will have begun .
the dark heart of asean
washington , dc – next week , at a summit in california , us president barack obama will meet with the leaders of the ten countries of asia ’ s most important regional grouping : the association of southeast asian nations .
the event , the first-ever us- asean summit on american soil , is being touted as a sign of america ’ s growing interest in southeast asia .
the question is whether the us , by inviting all members of asean , has allowed its interests to overwhelm its principles .
the upcoming summit is the latest manifestation of the obama administration ’ s strategic “ pivot ” toward asia – a national security strategy that entails a shift of american military , economic , and diplomatic resources toward the pacific rim countries .
in many ways , this move toward closer relations makes a lot of sense .
for starters , tensions between several southeast asian countries and china are on the rise , owing partly to the fact that china , under president xi jinping ( its most autocratic leader since deng xiaoping ) , has been acting increasingly asser tively in sta king its contested territorial claims in the region ’ s waters .
a similar decision two years ago led to deadly anti- china riots in vietnam .
and it is not just vietnam that ’ s worried .
malaysia , singapore , and the philippines are also trying to upgrade their nav ies and coast guards .
indeed , two decades after essentially tos sing us forces out of local bases , the philippines has welcomed back american troops as part of a new military cooperation deal .
even countries whose economies rely on china are worried .
china is laos ’ s biggest aid donor and largest trading partner ; yet laos ’ s ruling communist party last month elected a new leadership reportedly devoid of any pro- china politicians .
in myanmar , which also depends heavily on chinese aid and trade , the fear of becoming a chinese satellite was a key reason why the military junta c eded power to a civilian government in the early 201 0s .
beyond security challenges , the us has a growing economic interest in southeast asia .
together , the asean countries comprise america ’ s four th-largest trading partner .
some evidence also suggests that the new asean economic community , a framework for a regional free-trade agreement , is helping southeast asian countries weather an increasingly turbulent global economic environment .
but there is one very serious problem with the upcoming us- asean summit .
since the us pivot to asia was launched in 2011 , southeast asia ’ s political systems have , on the whole , reg ressed significantly .
over the last few years , thailand has gone from flawed democracy to military rule , which could persist through 2018 , or beyond .
similarly , malaysia appeared to be headed for a two- party democracy in 2011 .
today , opposition leader anwar ibrahim is in jail on dubious so dom y charges ; the government has passed legislation that essentially author izes it to de tain critics indefinitely ; and prime minister na ji b raz ak remains embroiled in multiple economic and political scandals .
cambodia , too , seemed like it had reached a political breakthrough after the opposition coalition nearly won the 2013 general election .
but in the last two years , cambodi an prime minister hun sen has reasser ted his political dominance .
opposition leader sam ra ins y , fearing arrest , has fled into exile .
then there is myanmar .
although the obama administration has touted the country as a shining example of democratic change , genuine democracy remains over the horizon .
true , the longtime opposition party , the national league for democracy , won last november ’ s general election .
but the military still controls many ministries and a quarter of the seats in parliament .
moreover , civil wars are erup ting along myanmar ’ s borders , and gangs and other radical groups are slaugh tering muslims in the country ’ s west .
laos , vietnam , and brun ei remain among the most repressive states in the world , with no evidence of political opening at all .
and though democracy has advanced in indonesia , the philippines , and singapore , progress has been slow ; in singapore , the ruling party continues to dominate the political system .
many factors account for the weakening of democracy in southeast asia .
the region ’ s first generation of elected leaders , like former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra , often proved to be no more than elected autocrats who used their majorities to crush their opponents and suppress technologies that could be used as tools for change .
indeed , thailand , whose online repression has increased under the junta , now blocks more than 100,000 websites from its citizens .
weak institutions mean many countries , such as malaysia , struggle to resolve political crises ; in thailand , army take over s have become the mod us viv en di .
what is troubl esome is that the obama administration has been reinforcing this damaging trend by bolstering ties with southeast asian autocrats .
obama has maintained close relations with malaysia ’ s na ji b ( the two are reportedly gol fing bud dies ) .
when obama visited malaysia last year , he barely mentioned anwar ’ s imprisonment .
the obama administration also has been conspicuously quiet about abuses in brun ei , laos , and vietnam , inviting the head of vietnam ’ s communist party to washington , dc , last july for a show y and warm visit .
in recent months , the obama administration has begun to restore links with thailand that were put on ice after the may 2014 coup , including by resum ing a high-level strategic dialogue .
yet according to human rights watch , “ thailand ’ s military junta tightened its grip on power and severely repressed fundamental rights ” last year .
and , so far this year , it has shown no signs of changing that approach .
the upcoming us- asean summit will include leaders – like hun sen , who has ruled cambodia for 25 years – who were previously considered too ruthless and repressive to be received by the us president on american soil .
it seems that security and economic considerations have now usur ped democracy as leading determinants of us foreign policy in the region .
for the people of southeast asia , this approach may ultimately create more risks than benefits .
can asean turn geostrategic and technological disruption into opportunity ?
geneva – is the association of southeast asian nations resilient enough to thrive amid the regional and global transformations taking place today ?
while the global economy continues its broad-based expansion , disruptive economic , geostrategic , and technological forces may threaten asean ’ s gains of recent years .
to survive , asean members must make important decisions about the role of their community in regional affairs .
with the right choices , the region can convert disruption into an opportunity for a resilient future .
asean has undergone an impressive turnaround in the past five decades .
a region of turbulence , dis harmony , and under development in the 1960s is today one of relative peace and economic success .
much of the credit belongs to the community- building efforts of the countries under the asean umbrella .
but the region also benefited strongly from the post-world war ii global architecture and institutions that promoted inward flows of investment and outward flows of exports .
today , this global backdrop is in a state of profound transformation .
the benefits of free and open trade are being questioned , international institutions are being challenged , new geopolitical powers are rising , and – despite ups and downs – the global economy continues to tilt further toward emerging markets .
all of this creates an opportunity for new and competing visions of how the world should be organized and run .
alongside rising geopolitical uncertainty , asean countries must grapple with the fourth industrial revolution .
the expon ential development of technologies such as artificial intelligence , advanced robotics , precision medicine , and autonomous vehicles is transforming economies , businesses , and societies .
asean members will feel the effects of the fourth industrial revolution acutely .
consider the future of jobs . the working-age population in the bloc is increasing by 1 1,000 people daily and will continue to grow at this rate for the next 15 years .
this demographic expansion is happening just as many existing jobs will be substitu ted by intelligent automation and ai .
systems of taxation that rely on labor income will come under pressure .
national budgets will be challenged at exactly the moment when asean members must increase their investment in res killing labor forces and developing infrastructure for this new age .
for asean , the shift from centralized global supply chains to localized production systems could have a serious impact on export revenues and the investment by which it is driven .
faced with these disruptive shifts , asean must strengthen its community .
economically , regional resilience can be bolstered by building a genuine single market : asean has 6 30 million citizens with rapidly rising spending power .
fully implementing the asean economic community will be key .
with a strong regional market , asean can drive its own economic destiny , rather than relying on demand from external markets , and will be better insulated against potential protectionist shocks .
creating a single market for services will be critical .
here , especially , asean members must respond to the fourth industrial revolution , tackling issues such as harmonization of rules governing the use of data .
new technologies – including digital platforms , big- data analytics , and clou d- based services – do not recognize national borders and function best when they operate at scale .
