beyond regional bodies like the european union , international financial governance has remained largely un touched .
it is a hub of high-level thought and innovation ; it is home to some of the world ’ s most competitive regions and industries ; and , perhaps most impressive , it has built a community and market encompassing a half- billion people .
in the coming years , such ra ys may become scar cer still .
but inequality continued to worsen – with striking data showing that average life expectancy in the us was on the decline .
any train accident or airplane crash is now at first suspected of being an act of terrorism .
but , when it comes to standards – such as those governing safety , health , and the environment – the market- access requirements are brutal and bin ary : either you meet the established standard or you do not sell .
the spanish case is sympt omatic of a larger problem .
a 10 % increase in japan ’ s female labor-force participation rate – an entirely attainable goal – would translate into an almost 5 % gain in total labor-force participation .
new delhi – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has as sid uously cour ted russian president vladimir putin , meeting with him more than a dozen times in four years .
new thinking is required to manage these massive and systemic changes , as well as the integration of giants like china and india into the modern world .
these are some of the poorest households in the world , and , ironically , some of the hun gr iest as well , despite being food producers .
the complexities of black anger , white guilt , and of black , and white fear , are so v ex ed that most americans prefer not to talk about race at all .
but superficial repa irs will not meet the european union ’ s future needs . the cap must be born again .
their scientific breakthroughs have helped to feed the world , and we ’ ll need more of them .
for america , the sanders bill marks important progress .
because these activities ’ costs are so high and their benefits so low , stopping them would be easy .
it was later realized that the signal they had detected could be entirely attributed to inter st ell ar dust .
indeed , the chinese authorities only recently showed what they think of treaty obligations and of the “ golden age ” of sino- british relations ( much adverti sed by british ministers ) , by abduc ting a british citizen ( and four other hong kong residents ) on the city ’ s streets .
good data are also essential to the effectiveness of advocacy groups as they push providers to improve their services .
the global companies operating in the delta have spilled oil and fl ared natural gas for decades , without regard for the natural environment and the communities impoverished and poisoned by their actions .
the us supposedly constr ains the activities of large corporations , with the department of justice taking action if companies acquire monopoly power or otherwise behave in an anti- competitive manner .
instead , i believe that the most important way to re awak en voters ’ interest in european elections will be to open up the election of the commission ’ s president to them , and create a genuinely europe-wide political debate during the next election campaign .
and from albania to kyrgyzstan , e- government systems are allowing more people to connect with critical services through online and electronic port als .
getting tough on trade at a time when national saving is about to come under ever- greater pressure simply doesn ’ t add up .
large investments in forestation , agriculture , and energy supply are called for .
accusing warriors of being traders and traders of being th iev es , it sh un s its marxist origins .
however , a decision-making body consisting of delegates from kosovo , serbia , and the european union would be given full authority over major foreign policy issues ( for example , alliances and relations with international economic institutions ) , def ence , borders ( in case kosovo wished to join with albania ) , and the treatment of kosovo ’ s serbian minority .
obama may have come to understand that when you are the leader of the world ’ s only superpower , you need to be feared just a little if you are to be respected .
already german , dutch , and finish savings amounting to € 15,000 , € 17 ,000 , and € 2 1,000 , respectively , per working person have been converted from marke table investments into mere equ alization claims against the ecb .
in many countries , there is considerable scope for domestic resource mobilization .
indeed , many eu members have been in a race with each other to see who will be russia ’ s closest friend in the union .
as thomas piketty ’ s recent book capital in the twenty-first century shows , accumulated wealth has grown rapidly relative to income across the advanced economies over the last 40 years .
trends in these factors might make reduced trade intensity not only inevitable but desirable .
that pretense may reflect a useful taboo : if we over tly recognize that debt write- off / monetization is possible , politicians might want to do it all the time and in excess , not just in circumstances that make it appropriate .
a “ credit crunch ” – particularly in trade finance – was certainly a key reason why the financial crisis generated a real economy recession .
the consumer benefits of this technology are large relative to its price : the cost of each year ’ s latest computer , tab let , or smartphone is trivial compared to the cost of a new car in 1950 .
free trade in automobiles was good for the environment 30 years ago .
clim at e wise , a global network of insurance industry organizations , has already warned that the world is facing a $ 100 billion annual climate risk “ protection gap ” .
the money that developing countries would receive for this would not be aid , but rather a recognition that the rich nations must pay for something that in the past they simply appropri ated : far more than their fair share of our atmosphere ’ s capacity to absorb our waste gases .
the decision to recommend the renminbi ’ s inclusion , far from having been made on sound economic grounds , can only be understood as political .
such a body must operate under the auspices of the united nations , which bears the institutional legitimacy necessary to respond effectively to the challenges of globalization with coherent global standards to combat abusive tax practices and ensure fair taxation of corporate profits worldwide .
policy vac ill ation in some countries has not helped .
the most promising areas for international cooperation today most likely concern problems posed for states by third parties such as criminals and terrorists .
so i agreed to go on nigeria ’ s mo st- watched television talk show to discuss my sexuality .
if suu kyi is permitted to campaign free of restraint , for both her own seat and to boost the electoral chances of her n ld colleagues , it will be clear that the in sein and his government are truly determined to bring their country in from the cold .
in imperial china , this meant confucian orthodoxy .
for now , policymakers across the americas are ti p to eing towards the obvious .
but the other credit crisis is equally consequential , and receives much less attention , even as it erodes societies ’ integrity , productive capabilities , and ability to maintain living standards ( particularly for the least fortunate ) .
another lesson from japan
and the belief in economic growth as a fiscal panacea led to un realistically optimistic gdp forecasts .
madrid – the ongoing crisis in ukraine has been a hot topic of analysis for almost a year .
but such a dynamic does now seem to be in motion .
so how can turkey under these conditions maintain confidence in the eu ’ s fairness ?
they point to the cold war ’ s “ long peace ” as proof that nuclear deterrence is the only means of st aving off a major war .
in france , by contrast , the appointment of the black anch or woman au dre y pul v ar was big news on its own , because most of her colleagues in france are white .
new york – president obama 's recent trip to afghanistan highlighted the growing american and international perception that without better governance afghanistan will fail .
in afghanistan , america ’ s military was so tac tically dependent on pakistan that , on several occasions , the us encouraged india to curtail development projects , such as rebuilding afghanistan ’ s infrastructure .
irrigation has failed or is inadequate in hel m and , uru z gan , and k and ah ar – three of the top five opi um- producing provinces – where indebted farmers are ho o ked by the economics : opium brings in eight times as much cash as wheat and uses less water .
high-level collusion enables thousands of tons of chemical precur sors , needed to produce heroin , to be truc ked into the country .
second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
let ’ s hope that when the last whist le blows at the final in berlin on july 9 , we germans retain as much of this positive spirit as possible .
thus , royal ’ s program is her popularity .
but they are intended to under line what many people in europe know very well , which is that the speed with which problems concerning international development and conflict are growing easily outpac es the eu ’ s policy responses so far .
conditions in this vital economic sector will become even more precarious than they currently are .
africa , climate change , and the g-8 summit
for countries to experience job -led long-term growth , the provision of quality opportunities in agriculture is vital .
this might have its advantages , but it should not be a priority .
in ya ound é , camer oon , the af db helped to protect some 300,000 people and their property by reducing the frequency of floods from 15 incidents per year to just three .
after all , “ africa rising ” need not mean “ all ” of africa .
and , from the early 1990s , india ’ s economy also began to grow robu stly , with annual rates reaching the 9 % range by 2005 .
currently , the organization is mired in a financial crisis and inter nec ine disputes , and it will need a leader who has the vision to solve both internal and external problems .
res e tting the afric a- europe relationship
the school believes that the next einstein could be an african woman , an educational approach that in forms its comprehensive strategy to plug leaks in the stem development pipeline .
health coverage must not ignore africa ’ s elderly
a third challenge is climate change , which weighs heavily on countries where agriculture is still the primary sector for employment .
other recommendations relate to trade and regional integration , leveraging domestic and external finance , and promoting what it calls the “ new industrial revolution . ”
new research by the brookings institution ’ s africa growth initiative and the united nations university world institute for development economics research ( un u- wider ) might hold the key to answering that question .
for years , a lack of bank able projects deterred international financing .
nearly half of that $ 2.5 trillion will be spent in three countries : nigeria ( 20 % ) , egypt ( 17 % ) , and south africa ( 11 % ) .
to overcome africa ’ s human development challenges , african governments must invest in the people who can overcome them .
together , we have brought immun o hist o chemistry , a key diagnostic tool , to seven regional laboratories , an effort we hope lead to more timely cancer diagnoses and greatly improve the quality of care .
economic equality also challenges accepted beliefs , and dis p els harmful myths that perpetuate narrow definitions of gender norms .
the estimated growth rate for 2016 is lower than the population growth rate of about 2 % , implying a per capita contraction in gdp .
the oil sector will still have an important role to play .
yet uganda is also a success story .
migrants ’ remitt ance behavior is essentially dictated by the regulatory environment and the quality – in terms of speed , cost , security , and acces sibility – of products and services offered by banks , money- transfer companies , micro- finance institutions , and informal operators .
of course , numerous downside risks – adverse weather shocks , military conflict , and political turmoil – still can undermine the hard- earned benefits of this social and economic record .
some argue that gas might be a better alternative to hydr o or coal , but for countries that must import much of their gas the benefits of a stable and reliable source of cheap fuel in the form of coal present a very strong counter- argument to the capital costs of a gas plant .
ensuring africa ’ s continued rise
with prices for basic fo od stu ffs at their highest levels in decades , many urban ites feel well rewarded by farming .
to deploy this technology , which is based on american research but pil oted in- country , zi pl ine signed agreements with the aviation authority and the ministry of health , among others , and a public-private partnership was set up to fund the program .
presumably having learned their lesson from the brexit referendum , young britons contributed to an unexpected victory for labour in june ’ s snap general election .
those of us working in the field of international development can help level the playing field even more , by giving young africans from all backgrounds an opportunity to lead in transformative ways .
young people can help solve africa ’ s unemployment challenges , but those closest to the problem have yet to be made part of the solution .
this we should know by now : markets on their own are not stable .
for some of these countries , especially those that have adopted many new vaccines , obtaining adequate and sustainable financing is one of the most daunting challenges posed by the transition .
moreover , orderly political change can be brought about only with russian and iranian support .
but , rather than earning him the respect of an outraged egyptian public , revelations in the opposition press that his plane had to obtain a safe passage and authority to land from the israelis gar nered only how ls of der ision .
advanced countries are certain to resist any new commitments .
the globalized economy affects every state , yet no single state can determine the outcomes , because science and technology are border less .